Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities News and Events Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar News Section Menu Topics Story Archive For Journalists Events Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Topics Agriculture & Environment Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business & Management Campus Affairs COVID-19 Education Health Law & Policy Science & Technology Social Sciences Sports & Recreation Story Archive For Journalists Events COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Breadcrumb Home News & Events Paths to Resilience hide-lede Paths to Resilience Paths to Resilience The importance of mental health is front and center in our lives. Stigmas are vanishing, programs are expanding, and we’re becoming more creative in seeking our own wellness. The journey takes perseverance and resilience. And it takes support from friends and family, teachers and counselors. See how we’re cultivating that resilience and support at the University of Minnesota. Feature Pioneers in wellbeing For more than a quarter century, the U of M’s Earl E. Bakken Center for Spirituality & Healing has advanced whole-person health and wellbeing. Feature Visions of self-care What helps keep University of Minnesota students balanced and happy? The answers vary widely, but the images show some favorite activities. Feature Beyond recovery Robert "Cole" Pueringer, a graduate of the U of M Medical School, shares the story of his slide into alcohol addiction and depression and his subsequent path forward to the field of addiction medicine. Mental Health Resources Learn more about the many resources on the Twin Cities campus. Mental Health Resources [email protected] is a personalized digital platform connecting students to online tools and campus resources. Visit [email protected] If you or someone you know is suffering from a mental health crisis, the University of Minnesota is here to help. 24-Hours Crisis Line: 612-301-4673 24-Hour Text Counseling: Text "UMN" to 61222 UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities For Journalists Find an Expert For Journalists Guidelines for Journalists Meet the PR Team Contact [email protected] 612-624-5551 Do you know what the University of Minnesota University of Minnesota does for you? Driven to Discover Campaign Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback