Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Alumni University of Minnesota graduates are educators and lifelong learners, artists and policy leaders, engineers, doctors, philanthropists, mentors, and more. Our alumni span the globe, serving communities, leading organizations, discovering cures, and inspiring bold ideas. Join us. $170 million Donated by 40k generous alumni in 2018 80+ Alumni networks around the world 496,000 U of M Twin Cities alumni worldwide On this page: Skip to section: Alumni Resources Get Involved News Connect with the Alumni Association Take the Next Step $170 million Donated by 40k generous alumni in 2018 80+ Alumni networks around the world 496,000 U of M Twin Cities alumni worldwide Alumni Resources Stay connected with the University of Minnesota Alumni Association (UMAA) and tap into our supportive network of alumni. Find resources like lifelong learning opportunities, career services, and programs to enrich your life. Career Resources Alumni Networks Get Your Transcript Become a UMAA Member Get Involved Whether you’re at a stage in your career where you’re ready to reconnect with the University, or simply would like to share your knowledge and experience with today’s students, we have opportunities for you. Advocate Volunteer Mentor Events Travel Give “The U of M had the most American Indian nursing faculty [of any university] in the country. … Having them as mentors was monumental for me.” Misty Wilkie Professor, Department of Nursing, Bemidji State University Read Misty’s story News News Release Interim Title Dropped as Aaron Schilz, MPA, Named Masonic Cancer Center’s Executive Director Aaron Schilz has been appointed as the Executive Director for the Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota. News Release University of Minnesota joins internationally-recognized Principles for Responsible Investment The United Nations-sponsored PRI is the world’s leading organization for responsible investment. News Release School of Dentistry research hub joins interprofessional center for pharmaceutical research The U of M’s Minnesota Dental Research Center for Biomaterials and Biomechanics (MDRCBB) has joined a national, collaborative research center focused on improving the development process for pharmaceutical products. Connect with the Alumni Association Take the Next Step Update Contact Information Shop for Gifts and Gear Read Minnesota Alumni Magazine UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback