Skip to main content Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Utility Menu MyU One Stop Jobs Search Menu Search Menu Close search area Search input text area Search Common Search Terms Housing Libraries Bookstore Tuition Cost Academic Calendar Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us Task List MyU One Stop Jobs COVID-19: Fall 2020 Main navigation Academics & Admissions Student Life Research Health Sciences Gopher Athletics News & Events About Us COVID-19: We’re committed to keeping students, staff, and faculty safe. Find updates on operations, resources, and stories. COVID-19 Response COVID-19 NewsClose this banner Academics and Admissions Curiosity drives us. To go beyond what we know. To uncover what we don’t. At the University of Minnesota, you’ll find everything you need to begin your journey. 17:1 Student-Faculty Ratio 80% Classes with under 50 students 135+ 135+ Minors On this page: Skip to section: Majors and Programs Study Abroad Tuition, Scholarships, and Financial Aid Admissions Online and Continuing Education News Take the Next Step 17:1 Student-Faculty Ratio 80% Classes with under 50 students 135+ 135+ Minors Majors and Programs The University of Minnesota Twin Cities is among the nation’s top public research universities, with award-winning faculty, state-of-the-art facilities, and world-class academics. With a major for every interest, from astrophysics to product design, child psychology, and American Indian studies, we offer endless opportunities for all students. Majors and Programs Colleges and Schools “I chose the U of M because of the top-level research being done here. I have always been fascinated with STEM research, and the U of M is one of the most advanced in that area.” Fatou Barry, ’22 Biology Study Abroad Traveling abroad has the potential to help you discover new worlds—even those within yourself. Every year, over 4,000 students take advantage of learning abroad opportunities at the U of M. With one of the largest programs in the nation—200+ options in 60+ countries—you’ll find a place that’s right for you. Study Abroad “I chose to come to the U of M due to its national reputation. I knew it would open many doors and introduce me to faculty who would help propel my future in the right direction.” Eric Sem, ’22 Political Science Tuition, Scholarships, and Financial Aid The University of Minnesota is ranked as a “best value” by USA Today, the Princeton Review, and Kiplinger’s Personal Finance. We have competitive tuition rates, outstanding academic programs, and a focus on student success. Free Per semester every credit after 13 is free 43% Bachelor degree students graduate debt free 75% Students receive financial aid or work-study funds Undergraduate Cost of Attendance (2020-21) Undergraduate costs vary, depending on your program, coursework, and personal spending. Estimates here include tuition/fees, housing, books, and personal expenses. In-State and Reciprocity: $28,942 Non-Resident: $48,740 Scholarships and aid reduce the cost of attendance for most undergraduate students. For Minnesota residents, the University offers the U Promise Scholarship and Promise Plus Free Tuition programs. Tuition, Scholarships, and Aid Graduate and Professional Cost of Attendance (2020-21) Tuition costs vary widely by school/program, the number of credits you plan to take, and resident or non-resident status. Graduate Program Cost of Attendance Admissions 50,000+ Passionate students 16,000 Graduate and professional students 1,000s Internship and research opportunities Undergraduate The undergraduate experience is all about discovery. Whatever you want to explore, from building a solar car to building your résumé, you will find it here. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate and Professional Whatever your interest, if you have a bachelor’s degree and are ready for the next level, we have a program for you. Explore our 550+ graduate and professional degrees. Graduate Admissions “I chose the U because not only does it have a marching band, but it is a major research university. Having the opportunity to get into a lab as an undergrad is important to me.” Allison Blaskowski, ’23 Genetics, Cell Biology and Development Online and Continuing Education The University of Minnesota opens doors for those looking for flexible learning opportunities. Our robust hybrid and online educational offerings give you options outside the traditional classroom. Whether you are an undergraduate student or an adult learner, you can learn at your own pace while staying motivated and on track to meet your goals. You can enroll in programs to help you finish your degree, earn a certificate, or pursue professional and personal growth in whatever environment suits you best. Online Education Continuing and Professional Studies News Feature Turning lessons into leadership Claire Busse developed a trauma-informed leadership training for peer leaders in the University of Minnesota’s marching band. Feature Nothing is stopping her now From a one-room schoolhouse to a large public research university, Betty Sandison’s educational journey is one for the ages. News Release University of Minnesota commencement ceremonies begin systemwide this week In the coming weeks, the University of Minnesota System will host numerous commencement ceremonies to recognize thousands of students across its five campuses for their academic achievements and congratulate them as they take the next step forward in toward productive lives and careers. Read More News Undergraduate Admissions Next Steps Request Information Visit Apply UMN Crookston UMN Morris UMN Duluth UMN Twin Cities UMN Rochester System Campuses System Website Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities Find Search Libraries Academic Calendar Employment Alumni Resources Twin Cities Campus Contact Us Maps Parking & Transportation Office of Equity & Diversity Safe Campus Fund the minds of tomorrow. Give Connect with us Link to U of M's Facebook page Link to U of M's Instagram page Link to U of M's LinkedIn page Link to U of M's Twitter page Link to U of M's Youtube page Wordmark of the University of Minnesota Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities © Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement | Report Web Disability-Related Issue Website Feedback