Skip to main content Temple University Tyler School of Art and Architecture Menu Search form Search Calendar of Events Tyler News Blog Contact Us About About Tyler Mission, Vision, Values Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Leadership Facilities History Join Tyler's Faculty Accreditation People Faculty Visiting Artists, Scholars and Designers Notable Alumni Undergraduate Student Profiles Adjunct Faculty Resources Admissions Undergraduate: First Year Undergraduate: Transfer Graduate Academics Academic Programs Architecture Art Education Art History Art Therapy Ceramics City & Regional Planning Community Arts Practices Community Development Facilities Management Facilities Planning Fibers & Material Studies Foundations Glass Graphic & Interactive Design Historic Preservation Horticulture Landscape Architecture Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Visual Studies Entrepreneurial Studies Courses for non-majors Charles Library Study Abroad Events Calendar of Events Temple Contemporary Student Exhibitions BFA Exhibitions MFA Exhibitions Student Exhibitions Archive Pre-College & Continuing Education Pre-College Programs Non-matriculated Students Get Updates Registration and Information Watch and Listen Life at Tyler Life at Tyler Academic Advising Facilities Health and Wellness Diversity and LGBTQIA+ International Students Get Involved Philadelphia Career Resources Newsletters Giving Why Give? Make an Impact Ways to Give Alumni Engagement Menu Academic Programs Entrepreneurial Studies Courses for non-majors Charles Library Study Abroad Degrees Offered Faculty Facilities Lecture Series Student Work Alumni Contact Us Master of Architecture BS Architecture BS Facilities Management BS Historic Preservation Architecture +1 Option Architecture +1 Option Tyler Architecture's +1 Program is an accelerated degree track leading to a Bachelor of Science in Architecture and a professional Master of Architecture degree. + 1 Program students will complete the requirements for both degrees in five years including two summer semesters of graduate coursework. This program consists of a minimum of 111 semester hours of undergraduate course work, a maximum of 12 semester hours of graduate coursework to count towards both the undergraduate and the graduate degrees. Upon successful completion of the fourth year, students will receive a Bachelor of Science in Architecture. At the end of the contiguous fifth year (including two summers), students will receive a Master of Architecture degree. Guidelines for admission to the +1 Program include: Enroll as a Bachelor of Science in Architecture student Obtain a minimum 3.25 cumulative grade point average in at least 45 credits of coursework taken at Temple Maintain a 3.0 GPA once enrolled in the program Receive at least a B in each graduate level course Complete the Bachelor of Science in Architecture degree in the first four years while maintaining full-time undergraduate status and not register for an overload (over 18 total credits) Complete the combined baccalaureate and master's program in five contiguous years Complete the Master of Architecture application by December 1 of the 4th year (The GRE will be waived for 4+1 students.) Students will take no more than one graduate course in any one undergraduate semester. They will take the following 12 credits of graduate coursework to fulfill twelve elective credits of undergraduate degree requirements. ARCH 5252, Structural Design I (3 cr) ARCH 5351 Environmental Systems I (3 cr) ARCH 8011 Advanced Architectural Design (6 cr) Temple University Tyler School of Art and Architecture 2001 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Directory Maps and Directions Contact Us TUportal TUmail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple © Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.