Skip to main content Temple University Tyler School of Art and Architecture Menu Search form Search Calendar of Events Tyler News Blog Contact Us About About Tyler Mission, Vision, Values Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Leadership Facilities History Join Tyler's Faculty Accreditation People Faculty Visiting Artists, Scholars and Designers Notable Alumni Undergraduate Student Profiles Adjunct Faculty Resources Admissions Undergraduate: First Year Undergraduate: Transfer Graduate Academics Academic Programs Architecture Art Education Art History Art Therapy Ceramics City & Regional Planning Community Arts Practices Community Development Facilities Management Facilities Planning Fibers & Material Studies Foundations Glass Graphic & Interactive Design Historic Preservation Horticulture Landscape Architecture Metals/Jewelry/CAD-CAM Painting Photography Printmaking Sculpture Visual Studies Entrepreneurial Studies Courses for non-majors Charles Library Study Abroad Events Calendar of Events Temple Contemporary Student Exhibitions BFA Exhibitions MFA Exhibitions Student Exhibitions Archive Pre-College & Continuing Education Pre-College Programs Non-matriculated Students Get Updates Registration and Information Watch and Listen Life at Tyler Life at Tyler Academic Advising Facilities Health and Wellness Diversity and LGBTQIA+ International Students Get Involved Philadelphia Career Resources Newsletters Giving Why Give? Make an Impact Ways to Give Alumni Engagement Menu Degrees Offered Research Student Organization Student Achievements Student Work Faculty Alumni Contact Us Degrees Offered Bachelor of Science (BS) in Community Development The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Community Development degree program at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture prepares students to serve as innovative and collaborative leaders who empower residents to take charge of the future of their communities. Courses provide necessary knowledge, values and job-ready skills—students learn to think critically and develop an understanding of the social, political, economic, historical and cultural dynamics that shape modern society. They also learn how to engage stakeholders in and assess a community’s assets, needs and opportunities; as well as develop strategies, programs and policies to improve housing, local economy, food access, social cohesion and resilience. The curriculum extends into Philadelphia, where students employ best practices, engage in field research and partner with professionals and organizations to tackle complex challenges facing cities. This holistic approach launches graduates who are bold problem solvers into successful careers in community development corporations, housing agencies, nonprofits, foundations and other community-based organizations. Requirements Degree Requirements City & Regional Planning Accelerated Program Option: Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Science + Master of Science (BA/BS+MS) The Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Science + Master of Science (BA/BS+MS) in City & Regional Planning program at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture enables eligible undergraduate students to earn a BA or BS from any major at Temple along with the MS in City & Regional Planning in five years rather than a typical six. Students will take up to 12 semester credit hours of graduate coursework as an undergraduate. After graduating with a BA or BS, students move seamlessly into the MS in City & Regional Planning graduate program, which they complete, in most cases, in one additional year. Additional information on Temple’s accelerated program options, please visit Temple’s Undergraduate Bulletin or contact Tyler’s City & Regional Planning and Community Development programs here. Master of Science (MS) in City & Regional Planning The Master of Science (MS) in City & Regional Planning degree program at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture is a Planning Accreditation Board-accredited pathway to professional practice. The program prepares students to become planning professionals with the knowledge, skills and capacities to address the complex challenges facing neighborhoods, cities and regions. Students learn how to navigate the challenges of policy making in a multi-tiered regulatory framework and within a pluralistic society. They learn communication skills and the tools necessary to be effective professionals working with a range of communities, administrative stakeholders and diverse interest groups in the processes of planning and decision making. The curriculum builds knowledge and skills in social and environmental planning and governmental structures, and develops advanced computer applications for planning. Sustainability is central to the curriculum. Tyler’s faculty are distinguished by their rich professional experience, robust networks and interdisciplinary research interests. Part-time faculty are employed in senior planning positions throughout the Philadelphia region and bring their expertise to the classroom. Students may also pursue a concentration in transportation planning or sustainable community planning. Public information and performance outcomes Tyler’s Master of Science (MS) in City & Regional Planning program is accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (since 2012). Graduating students are eligible for status as an American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) candidate, pre-certified planner. The Planning Accreditation Board requires all accredited programs to post information on student achievements, tuition, student retention and graduation rates, AICP exam pass rates and employment. This information is available here. Requirements Degree Requirements Minors and Certificates in City & Regional Planning and Community Development Undergraduate Minors and Certificates Minor in City & Regional Planning The minor in City & Regional Planning at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture provides undergraduate students with a focus on urban and environmental planning, land use and sustainability, setting them up for a range of careers. The minor also offers coursework that prepares students for graduate-level coursework in city planning. Requirements Minor in Community Development The minor in Community Development at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture provides undergraduate students with a focus on topics related to increasing quality of life in communities and establishing them as informed citizens and civically-engaged professionals. Courses focus on topics such as affordable housing, economic development, community engagement, land redevelopment and non-profit management, among others. The minor also offers coursework that prepares students for graduate-level coursework in city planning. Requirements Minor in Ecological Planning and Design The Minor in Ecological Planning and Design at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture offers students from across Temple University an opportunity to deepen their understanding of ecological planning and design. The minor focuses on planning and development that is compatible with natural resources and processes, as well as considers social, political and economic factors in order to create lifelong contributions to the sustainability of communities. Requirements Minor in Sustainable Food Systems The Minor in Sustainable Food Systems at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture offers students from across Temple University an opportunity to investigate the complexities of food systems through an interdisciplinary approach that includes horticulture, planning and public health. The minor focuses on the relationship of farmland preservation, food production practices and supply alternatives that improve local economies, reduce energy consumption, lower environmental impact and ensure widespread access to affordable and healthy food. Requirements Certificate in Environmental Sustainability The Certificate in Environmental Sustainability at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture provides students from across Temple University with an opportunity to gain the fundamental knowledge to evaluate environmental problems and to understand ecologically- and economically-sound solutions. Students will learn to transform environmental needs, policy issues and research best practices for sustainability. Requirements Certificate in Sustainability The Certificate in Sustainability at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture provides an opportunity for students to advance knowledge and skills and contribute to sustainable systems in order to help them become effective leaders and agents of change. Requirements Certificate in Sustainable Food Systems The Certificate in Sustainable Food Systems at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture provides students from across Temple University with an opportunity to investigate the complexities of food systems through an interdisciplinary approach that includes horticulture, planning and public health. The certificate focuses on the relationship of farmland preservation, food production practices and supply alternatives that improve local economies, reduce energy consumption, lower environmental impact and ensure widespread access to affordable and healthy food. Requirements Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Community Planning The Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Community Planning at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture introduces students to the broad range of issues and topics relevant to planning for the sustainable development of cities and regions. Students gain knowledge of the historical evolution, theory and practice of sustainable development at the local, regional and global levels; develop indicators to monitor and evaluate the sustainability of site, as well as community and regional actions, plans and designs; and understand how to incorporate sustainability principles into planning practice to address the interrelationships between social, economic and environmental factors. Students can also take elective courses to deepen their knowledge in specific areas of sustainability and environmental planning. The certificate provides a professional credential and is open to professionals working in planning and related fields, as well as current graduate students at Temple University. For information on requirements and applying, please contact Tyler Admissions. Graduate Certificate in Transportation Planning The Graduate Certificate in Transportation Planning at the Tyler School of Art and Architecture introduces a broad range of topics and issues relevant to transportation planning and the specific relationships between it and land-use planning. Students will gain basic competency in transportation planning methodologies and knowledge of the key contemporary transportation and travel behavior challenges that face planners and engineers. They will also develop critical thinking skills to address these challenges and analyze important debates in the field. The certificate provides a professional credential and is open to professionals working in public and private agencies in the field of transportation planning and transportation engineering, as well as current graduate students at Temple University. For information on requirements and applying, please contact Tyler Admissions. Temple University Tyler School of Art and Architecture 2001 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Directory Maps and Directions Contact Us TUportal TUmail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple © Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.