Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Chemistry Faculty Chair Gregory D. Scholes Associate Chair Paul J. Chirik Director of Undergraduate Studies Robert P. L'Esperance Director of Graduate Studies Robert R. Knowles Professor Andrew B. Bocarsly Roberto Car Robert J. Cava Paul J. Chirik John T. Groves Michael H. Hecht Robert R. Knowles David W. MacMillan Tom Muir Joshua D. Rabinowitz Herschel A. Rabitz Gregory D. Scholes Jeffrey Schwartz Annabella Selloni Martin F. Semmelhack Mohammad R. Seyedsayamdost Erik J. Sorensen Salvatore Torquato Haw Yang Associate Professor Jannette Carey Assistant Professor William M. Jacobs Ralph E. Kleiner Leslie M. Schoop Marissa L. Weichman Associated Faculty Bonnie L. Bassler, Molecular Biology Frederick M. Hughson, Molecular Biology Bruce E. Koel, Chemical and Biological Eng Alexei V. Korennykh, Molecular Biology A. James Link, Chemical and Biological Eng Cameron A. Myhrvold, Molecular Biology Satish C. Myneni, Geosciences Sabine Petry, Molecular Biology Michele L. Sarazen, Chemical and Biological Eng Jeffry B. Stock, Molecular Biology Martin Helmut Wühr, Molecular Biology Nieng Yan, Molecular Biology Lecturer Nicholas D. Chiappini Sonja A. Francis Michael T. Kelly Sandra L. Knowles Robert P. L'Esperance Jenny S. Martinez István Pelczer Susan K. VanderKam Chia-Ying Wang For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Department of Chemistry offers a flexible program suitable for those who plan to attend graduate school, as well as for premedical students or those intending to pursue a career in secondary school teaching. A chemistry concentration is appropriate for anyone who desires a broad background of undergraduate training in science. Advanced Placement A student who received an Advanced Placement Examination score of 4 qualifies for one unit of advanced placement and is eligible to take CHM 215 Advanced General Chemistry-Honors. A student who received an Advanced Placement Examination score of 5 qualifies for two units of advanced placement and is eligible to take CHM 301. One term of advanced placement satisfies the B.S.E. chemistry requirement. A departmental placement examination is given for students who did not have an opportunity to take the Chemistry Advanced Placement Exam. Prerequisites Before entering the department, students are expected to complete: 1. One year of general chemistry: CHM 201 and CHM 202; CHM 207 and CHM 202; 1 unit of advanced placement and CHM 202; 1 unit of advanced placement and CHM 215; or two units of advanced placement credit. 2. Differential and integral calculus: MAT 103 and MAT 104, or the equivalent advanced placement credit. 3. One year of general physics: PHY 101 or PHY 103 or PHY 105 and PHY 102 or PHY 104 or PHY 106 or the equivalent advanced placement credit. 4. One year of organic chemistry: CHM 301 and CHM 302 or CHM 301 and CHM 304. Chemistry concentrators must complete this sequence at Princeton and by the end of the second year. Prerequisite courses may not be taken using the P/D/F grading option. Early Concentration A student who has been granted advanced placement credit in chemistry and has taken advanced courses in the subject during both terms of their first year may be eligible for independent work in the sophomore year. First-year students interested in this option should contact the director of undergraduate studies in the spring term. Program of Study University regulations require that, before graduation, students take eight courses designated as departmental courses in their field of concentration. These eight courses are divided into four Core Courses and four Cognate Courses as defined below. Chemistry concentrators typically take more than eight courses that qualify as departmental. Core Courses Students must take three 300-, 400-numbered courses in chemistry and at least one term of experimental laboratory instruction at Princeton as departmental core courses. These courses must include at least one term each of organic (CHM 301, 302, or 304), physical (CHM 305, 306, 405, or 406), and inorganic chemistry (CHM 411 or 412). The experimental requirement may be fulfilled by taking either CHM 371, or MSE 302, or PHY 312, or CBE 346. Note: The experimental course must be completed by the end of the junior year. Cognates The remaining four departmental courses of the eight required by the University degree regulations can be in either chemistry or a cognate scientific area (e.g., molecular biology, engineering, geoscience, materials science, computer science, mathematics, neuroscience, or physics). Many courses in the sciences at the 300, 400, and 500 levels are approved as departmental courses. Courses are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. To qualify as a departmental, the course must have one or more prerequisites (i.e., be non-introductory) and must have a strong chemistry component. Contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies to discuss whether courses of interest can be counted as cognates. Physics/Mathematics An understanding of chemistry requires a thorough background in physics and mathematics. Students majoring in chemistry should obtain a broad background in these subjects. In general, it is desirable to take courses in mathematics at least through multivariable calculus (MAT 201 or 203) and linear algebra (MAT 202 or 204). These courses may be counted as departmental courses. The program described above deliberately allows substantial flexibility and encourages a broad view of chemistry. Independent Work Junior Independent Work First-term program: The First-term program consists of two components: Junior Colloquium and Reading Groups. 1. The Junior Colloquium: One evening each week throughout the fall term, junior chemistry majors and early concentrators are required to attend research seminars and departmental trainings. The research seminars, given by the departmental faculty, will introduce students to areas of current research not typically addressed during the coursework. The departmental training sessions include laboratory safety and responsible conduct of research, which prepare the student for independent research in the spring. 2. Reading Groups: Juniors will be assigned to one of several reading groups. Over the course of the semester, every group will meet with three separate instructors, one for each of three four-week reading periods. Reading group instructors will utilize current chemical literature to introduce novel research, and the mechanics of scientific writing and presentation. At the end of each reading period, students will submit a critical analysis of a research article. The student's final term grade is calculated by the Director of Undergraduate Studies using the grades on the three papers plus the individual's record of attendance at the evening colloquia. Second-term program: Each student will select a faculty adviser for spring independent work by the start of the spring semester. During the semester, the student will meet regularly with the faculty adviser, and begin working on preliminary research in their chosen field. At the end of the term, the student will submit a research proposal for the senior thesis. The proposal will incorporate the experimental results obtained into support for the projected thesis topics. A student's final term grade is determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in conjunction with the faculty adviser's evaluation. Senior Independent Work At the end of the junior year, each student selects a thesis adviser (who may or may not be the same as the adviser during the junior year). The adviser and the student will agree on a topic on which the student will undertake independent original research throughout both terms of the senior year. This project will consist largely of original research involving wet laboratory work and/or chemical theory. On or before the University deadline, a written thesis based on this research work must be submitted to the department. The thesis will be evaluated and ranked by a committee of professors, two each from the following areas of study, as appropriate: inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, physical chemistry, materials science, and biochemistry. Grading note: The grades for the junior and senior independent work will comply with the University's grading guidelines. Senior Departmental Examination The comprehensive exam is an oral thesis presentation, given by each senior student to a group of three members of the faculty, including their thesis adviser, during the first part of the final exam period. Study Abroad The department encourages students to consider opportunities for study abroad in the spring term of the junior year. Requirements for the junior independent work program are then met at the host institution overseas. In addition, the student may elect to have the number of required departmental courses reduced by one cognate per semester abroad, assuming advanced approval of a chemistry-related course of study at the overseas institution. (This course may not be counted as one of the four required core courses.) Students considering study abroad are urged to discuss their plans with the Director of Undergraduate Studies early in the planning stages to lay out coursework, obtain approvals, and set up junior independent work assignments. Integrated Science Sequence Completion of the ISC/CHM/COS/MOL/PHY 231, 232, 233, 234 series fulfills the general chemistry and physics prerequisites. For full course descriptions and more information, see the Integrated Science website. Additional Information Professional Certification in Chemistry Students intending to pursue a career in chemistry, whether directly after graduation or following a graduate program, may wish to pursue a course of study leading to professional certification by the American Chemical Society. This certification requires two semesters of organic chemistry (CHM 301 and either 302 or 304), two semesters of physical chemistry (CHM 305 or 405, and 306 or 406), one semester of inorganic chemistry (CHM 411 or 412), one semester of experimental chemistry (CHM 371), and one semester of biochemistry (either CHM 403 or MOL 345). Junior and Senior Independent Work (CHM 981 and 984) must be completed. Two additional courses in the chemistry department, or cross-listed with the chemistry department, must also be taken for subject depth. Courses in multi-variable calculus, linear algebra, and differential equations are strongly recommended. Chemistry Outreach Program Nothing serves to foster excitement about science more than well-planned chemical demonstrations and activities. Many chemistry faculty, staff, and students participate in programs for local schools, museums, community groups, and youth organizations. The Chemistry Outreach Program gives chemistry concentrators hands-on experience with demonstrations and presentations, and the opportunity to increase interest in science in the schools and the community. After a brief series of training sessions, chemistry outreach students, in concert with faculty and staff, present programs for visitors to Princeton and at local schools, museums, or libraries. The training sessions emphasize effective presentation, safe practices, the choice of age-appropriate activities, and coordination with local educational requirements. They include laboratory sessions in which students master demonstrations and activities tested by the department or by the American Chemical Society. Students may also develop or help to develop new demonstrations or activities, and they may help with other science programs, such as the New Jersey State Science Olympiad. Interested students should contact Dr. Kathryn Wagner, Director. Courses CHM 201 General Chemistry I Fall SEL An introductory course. Principles of chemistry; understanding the world around us; structure and reactions of atoms and molecules; laboratory manipulations, preparations, and analysis. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: M. Hecht, R. L'Esperance, S. Francis CHM 202 General Chemistry II Spring SEL Continuation of 201. Principles of chemistry; introduction to chemical bonding and solid state structure; chemical kinetics, nuclear chemistry; descriptive inorganic chemistry; laboratory manipulations, preparations, and analysis. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: A. Bocarsly, R. L'Esperance, S. Francis CHM 207 Advanced General Chemistry: Materials Chemistry Fall SEL Introduction to the basic concepts of chemistry: stoichiometry, types of reactions, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and chemical bonding. Introduction to the structure, chemistry, and properties of technologically important materials: metals, semiconductors, ceramics, and polymers. Fulfills medical school requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Three lecture hours, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: R. L'Esperance, A. Bocarsly, B. Koel CHM 215 Advanced General Chemistry: Honors Course Spring SEL An intensive study of fundamental theoretical and experimental principles. Topics are drawn from physical, organic, and inorganic chemistry. For students with excellent preparation who are considering scientific careers. Fulfills medical school entrance requirements in general chemistry and qualitative analysis. Completion of 215 qualifies the student for 300-level courses and some 400-level courses after consultation with the instructor of the upper-level course. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: P. Chirik, R. L'Esperance, S. Francis CHM 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 231) CHM 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 232) CHM 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 233) CHM 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 234) CHM 255 Life in the Universe (See AST 255) CHM 301 Organic Chemistry I: Biological Emphasis Fall SEL This course is designed as the first part of a three-semester sequence, CHM 301 and CHM 302, and MOL 345 (biochemistry). CHM 301 will introduce the principles of organic chemistry, including the structures, properties, and reactivity of organic compounds. The emphasis will be on bonding and structure, structural analysis by spectroscopy, and an introduction to the mechanisms of organic reactions. Examples will be taken from biology when appropriate to illustrate the principles. For a complete presentation of the subject, the course should be followed by CHM 302 or CHM 304 in the spring. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: M. Semmelhack, H. Gingrich, T. Hyster CHM 302 Organic Chemistry II with Biological Emphasis Spring SEL The concepts introduced in CHM 301 are extended to the structures and reactions of more complex molecules, with an emphasis on how organic chemistry provides the framework for understanding molecular processes in biology. The fundamental concepts of organic chemistry are illustrated, as often as possible, with examples drawn from biological systems. Appropriate for chemistry and engineering majors, premedical students, and students with an interest in organic chemistry and its central position in the life sciences. Prerequisite: CHM 301. Two 90-minute lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: M. Semmelhack, H. Gingrich CHM 304 Organic Chemistry II: Foundations of Chemical Reactivity and Synthesis Spring SEL Continuation of CHM 301. The concepts introduced in CHM 301 will be extended to the structures and reactions of more complex molecules, with an emphasis on how organic chemistry provides the framework for understanding molecular processes in biology. The fundamental concepts of organic chemistry will be illustrated, as often as possible, with examples drawn from biological systems. Prerequisite: 301. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: E. Sorensen, H. Gingrich CHM 305 The Quantum World Fall SEN An introduction to quantum mechanics for students interested in the relevance to chemistry, molecular biology, and energy science. A conceptual understanding is emphasized. Covers some of the historical development of the quantum theory to show how quantum theory was a step-change in thinking. Examines the (sometimes subtle) ways that quantum systems are different from classical systems. Includes the discussion of modern examples, including molecular electronic structure calculations, organic solar cells, photosynthesis, nanoscience, quantum computing, and quantum biology. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: G. Scholes CHM 306 Physical Chemistry: Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics Spring SEN Introduction to chemical thermodynamics, statistical mechanics, and kinetics. Special emphasis on biological problems, including nerve conduction, muscle contraction, ion transport, enzyme mechanisms, and macromolecular properties in solutions. Prerequisites: CHM 201 and CHM 202, or CHM 203 (or CHM 207) and CHM 204, or CHM 215; MAT 104; PHY 101 and 102, or PHY 103 and 104; or instructor's permission. Three lectures, one class. Instructed by: M. Kelly CHM 311 Global Air Pollution (See CEE 311) CHM 331 Environmental Chemistry: Chemistry of the Natural Systems (See GEO 363) CHM 345 Biochemistry (See MOL 345) CHM 371 Experimental Chemistry Fall SEL This course addresses the principles of experimental design, data acquisition, analysis and interpretation, and the presentation of experimental results. Students are exposed to a broad range of quantitative laboratory methods in preparation for thesis work in the chemical sciences. Typical laboratory exercises include inorganic synthesis, physical characterization, spectroscopy, kinetics, thermodynamics, instrument design, and computational chemistry. Lectures on principles of physical analysis with varieties of instruments and statistical analysis of collected data. Two lectures and two three-hour laboratories per week. Instructed by: M. Kelly, C. Wang CHM 403 Advanced Biochemistry Fall SEN Applies the principles of organic chemistry to biochemistry. Explores enzymology through the lenses of physical organic chemistry, bioinorganic chemistry, catalysis. Covers how proteins orchestrate the reactivity of functional groups, the range of cofactors employed to extend the scope and diversity of biocatalysis, enzymatic systems controlled by their kinetics, and how knowledge of enzyme reaction mechanisms enables modern drug design. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and CHM 302/CHM 304. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: J. Groves, M. Seyedsayamdost CHM 405 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Quantum Mechanics Not offered this year SEN Introduction to quantum theory, atomic and molecular structure, and spectroscopy. This course will emphasize the development of fundamental underlying principles and illustrative examples. Prerequisites: 202, 204, or 215; MAT 201 or 203 (required); MAT 202 or 204 (very helpful, even if taken concurrently); PHY 103 (may be taken concurrently) or AP Physics. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff CHM 406 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Chemical Dynamics and Thermodynamics Spring SEN Statistical thermodynamics, kinetics, and molecular reaction dynamics. Prerequisites: background in thermodynamics as developed in CHM 202, CHM 204, or CHM 215; MAT 201 or equivalent. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: C. Wang, W. Jacobs CHM 411 Inorganic Chemistry: Structure and Reactivity Fall SEN Structural principles and bonding theories are discussed for the various classes of inorganic and organometallic compounds. Includes an introduction to the electronic structure of transition elements and ligand field theory. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and 302 or CHM 301 and 304 or equivalent are required. Note: CHM 337 does not provide adequate preparation for this course. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: S. VanderKam CHM 412 Inorganic Chemistry: Structure and Materials Spring SEN Synthetic and mechanistic aspects of inorganic chemistry are presented; modern problems in inorganic chemistry are emphasized. Prerequisites: CHM 301 and 302 or CHM 301 and 304 or equivalent are required. Note: CHM 337 does not provide adequate preparation for this course. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: J. Schwartz, S. VanderKam CHM 415 Polymers (See CBE 415) CHM 418 Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry (See GEO 418) CHM 421 Green and Catalytic Chemistry (See CBE 421) CHM 470 Environmental Chemistry of Soils (See GEO 470) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University