Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Physics Faculty Chair Herman L. Verlinde Associate Chair William C. Jones Peter D. Meyers (acting) Director of Undergraduate Studies William C. Jones Director of Graduate Studies Peter D. Meyers Professor Michael Aizenman Robert H. Austin Bogdan A. Bernevig William Bialek Curtis G. Callan Jo Dunkley Cristiano Galbiati Thomas Gregor Frederick D. Haldane M. Zahid Hasan David A. Huse Igor R. Klebanov Daniel R. Marlow Peter D. Meyers James D. Olsen Nai Phuan Ong Lyman A. Page Jason R. Petta Alexander M. Polyakov Frans Pretorius Michael V. Romalis Shinsei Ryu Joshua W. Shaevitz Shivaji L. Sondhi Suzanne T. Staggs Paul J. Steinhardt Christopher G. Tully Herman L. Verlinde Ali Yazdani Associate Professor Waseem S. Bakr Simone Giombi William C. Jones Mariangela Lisanti Silviu S. Pufu Assistant Professor Lawrence W. Cheuk Andrew M. Leifer Biao Lian Isobel R. Ojalvo Sanfeng Wu Associated Faculty Ravindra N. Bhatt, Electrical & Comp Engineering Roberto Car, Chemistry Mihalis Dafermos, Mathematics Andrew A. Houck, Electrical & Comp Engineering Mansour Shayegan, Electrical & Comp Engineering David N. Spergel, Astrophysical Sciences David W. Tank, Princeton Neuroscience Inst Salvatore Torquato, Chemistry Ned S. Wingreen, Molecular Biology Senior Lecturer Katerina Visnjic Lecturer Steven J. Benton Jedrzej Biesiada Aurelien A. Fraisse Kelsey M. Hallinen Norman C. Jarosik Abhinav Prem Jason L. Puchalla Claudio Savarese Jacob Shapiro Kasey Wagoner Visiting Professor Yigal Meir Visiting Lecturer with Rank of Professor Stephen L. Adler Nima Arkani-Hamed Stanislas Leibler Juan M. Maldacena Nathan Seiberg Edward Witten For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The physics department offers a comprehensive program with the flexibility to accommodate students with a range of interests. Those students wishing to maximize their preparation for graduate school can choose from a variety of advanced-level courses. The requirements of the core curriculum, however, are such that students with diverse interests can take a considerable course load outside the department. Thus, in addition to those students planning to enter graduate school in physics, the department encourages concentrators with career goals in such areas as engineering physics, biophysics, law, medicine, materials science, and teaching. Advanced Placement Students who have taken one or more of the advanced placement examinations in physics are usually placed in PHY 105-106, PHY 103-104, or PHY 101-102, and with these placements no advanced placement credit is awarded. In some cases, students with strong backgrounds may be awarded up to two units of advanced placement credit and/or placed in higher level physics courses. Prerequisites Prerequisites for concentration in physics are the following five courses: PHY 103-104, PHY 205, and MAT 203-204. These five courses should be completed by the end of sophomore year. PHY 103 may be replaced by ISC 231-232 (the first term of Integrated Science Sequence), or PHY 105. PHY 104 may be replaced by ISC 233-234 or PHY 106. The PHY 109/110 (spring/summer) sequence is fully equivalent to PHY 104. Students with a particular interest in formal mathematics may instead satisfy the MAT 203-204 prerequisite with either the MAT 215-217 or the MAT 216-218 sequence. Prerequisites for concentration in physics cannot be taken on a pass/D/fail basis. It is possible to concentrate in physics starting with 100-level physics courses in sophomore year. Interested students should meet with the director of undergraduate studies as early as possible. Program of Study Upon completion of the prerequisites described above, courses required for concentration in physics are as follows. One semester of quantum mechanics: PHY 208. One semester of thermodynamics and statistical mechanics: PHY 301. One semester of experimental physics: PHY 312. One course on complex analysis or on differential equations chosen from the following list: APC 350 MAE 305 MAE 306 MAT 330 MAT 335 MAT 427 One additional course in physics (not including cross-lists) at the 300-level or above. One additional course in physics at the 300-level or above, including cross-lists. One additional course in either physics or math at the 300-level or above, including cross-lists. One elective course at the 300-level or higher, as detailed below. All eight courses must be taken for a letter grade, not pass/D/fail. Note that this excludes any pass/D/fail-only courses from counting as one of the eight. The elective course can be any physics department course (including cross-lists) at 300-level or above. 400-level physics courses are particularly recommended. Courses in astrophysics, biophysics or biology, chemistry, computer science, engineering, geophysical science, materials science, plasma physics, and mathematics may also be appropriate depending on the interests of the student. Courses from these departments may be approved on a case-by-case basis by the director of undergraduate studies. Graduate courses may also be taken with permission from both the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies. Independent Work Early Concentration Students who complete the prerequisites for concentration before the end of sophomore year may declare early concentration in physics. They may be offered an opportunity to undertake independent work during the spring term by writing the first junior paper. Students interested in this option must do so with the advice and consent of the physics department and the residential college director of studies. Junior Year In addition to the coursework carried out during the junior year, the student is required to complete two junior papers, each of which is on a research topic of current interest.The purpose of the papers is to give students exposure to how physics research is actually performed by immersing them in journal, as opposed to textbook, literature. Each paper is written in close consultation with a faculty adviser, who is typically performing research in the subject area of the paper. A junior paper may serve as a preliminary investigation of a senior thesis topic. Junior independent work may also be satisfied with a short experimental project. Senior Year In the senior year, in addition to coursework, students write a senior thesis based on their own research. The topic might be chosen from one of the active experimental or theoretical research fields of the physics department, or might be suggested by a faculty member with some subsidiary interest. A student could also choose a topic relating physics and another field, such as biophysics, geophysics, the teaching of physics, history of science, or engineering physics. Students whose main adviser is outside the physics department must also have a co-adviser who is a faculty member in the physics department. Senior Departmental Examination An oral examination conducted by a departmental committee at the end of the senior year serves as the senior departmental examination. Certificate Programs For those students with an interest in such topics as solid-state devices, optics, fluid mechanics, engineering design, control theory, computer applications, or other applied disciplines, the Program in Engineering Physics provides an opportunity for close contact with the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Specific requirements for the engineering physics certificate can be found in the section of this announcement on the Program in Engineering Physics. The department also offers the opportunity for concentrators to participate in the biophysics certificate program. Interested students should consult the section of this announcement on the Program in Biophysics and discuss the program with the director and their director of undergraduate studies. The Program in Quantitative and Computational Biology is designed for students with a strong interest in multidisciplinary and systems-level approaches to understanding molecular, cellular, and organismal behavior. The required courses provide a strong background in modern methodologies in data analysis, interpretation, and modeling. Additional Information Physics Department Facilities The research laboratories in Jadwin Hall (the main physics building) are open to undergraduates to conduct supervised research for their junior papers, senior theses, and summer jobs. There is a "student shop" that offers a (noncredit) course in the use of machine tools. Students with an experimental bent are encouraged to take this course and are then able to participate actively in the construction of experimental apparatus. There are graduate courses in electronics (PHY 557 and PHY 558) open to undergraduates that prepare students to design and build the sophisticated electronics required in modern experiments. Courses PHY 101 Introductory Physics I Fall SEL A course in fundamental physics that covers classical mechanics, fluid mechanics, basic thermodynamics, sounds, and waves. Meets premedical requirements. One lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 102 Introductory Physics II Spring SEL Continuation of 101. A course in fundamental physics that covers electricity, magnetism, and an introduction to the quantum world. Meets premedical requirements. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial, and one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 103 General Physics I Fall SEL The physical laws that govern the motion of objects, forces, and forms of energy in mechanical systems are studied at an introductory level. Calculus-based, primarily for engineering and science students, meets premedical requirements. Some preparation in physics and calculus is desirable; calculus may be taken concurrently. One demonstration lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 104 General Physics II Spring SEL Continuation of 103. Electromagnetism from electrostatics, DC and AC circuits to optics, and topics of modern physics are treated at an introductory level. Some preparation in physics and calculus is desirable; calculus may be taken concurrently. Calculus-based, primarily for engineering and science students, meets premedical requirements. One demonstration lecture, three classes, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 105 Advanced Physics (Mechanics) Fall SEL PHY105 is an advanced first year course in classical mechanics, taught at a more sophisticated level than PHY103. Care is taken to make the course mathematically self contained, and accessible to the motivated physics student who may not have had exposure to an introductory college level physics course. The approach of PHY105 is that of an upper-division physics course, with more emphasis on the underlying formal structure of physics than PHY103, including an introduction to modern variational methods (Lagrangian dynamics), with challenging problem sets due each week and a mini-course in Special Relativity held over reading period. Instructed by: Staff PHY 106 Advanced Physics (Electromagnetism) Spring SEL Parallels 104 at a more sophisticated level, emphasizing the unification of electric and magnetic forces and electromagnetic radiation. To enter this course, students must have done well in 103 or 105. 103 students must attend the lectures on special relativity given in reading period as part of 105. Three lectures, one class, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 108 Physics for the Life Sciences SEL A new one semester physics course designed specifically for life science majors. Selected topics in physical theory and experiment will be presented and highlighted using a range of examples. Instructed by: J. Puchalla PHY 115A Physics for Future Leaders (also STC 115A ) Fall SEN What do future leaders of our society need to know about physics and technology? The course is designed for non-scientists who will someday become our influential citizens and decision-makers. Whatever the field of endeavor, they will be faced with important decisions in which physics and technology play an important role. The purpose of this course is to present the key principles and the basic physical reasoning needed to interpret scientific and technical information and to make the best decisions. Topics include energy and power, atomic and subatomic matter, wave-like phenomena and light, and Einstein's theory of relativity. Instructed by: Staff PHY 115B Physics for Future Leaders (also STC 115B ) Fall SEL What do future leaders of our society need to know about physics and technology? The course is designed for non-scientists who will someday become our influential citizens and decision-makers. Whatever the field of endeavor, they will be faced with important decisions in which physics and technology play an important role. The purpose of this course is to present the key principles and the basic physical reasoning needed to interpret scientific and technical information and to make the best decisions. Topics include energy and power, atomic and subatomic matter, wave-like phenomena and light, and Einstein's theory of relativity. Instructed by: Staff PHY 191 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics (See EGR 191) PHY 192 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics (See EGR 192) PHY 205 Classical Mechanics Fall SEN Classical mechanics, with emphasis on the Lagrangian method. The underlying physics is Newtonian, but with more sophisticated mathematics introduced as needed to understand more complex phenomena. Topics in this intensive course include the formalism of Lagrangian mechanics, central-force motion and scattering, rigid body motion and noninertial forces, small oscillations, coupled oscillations, and waves. Prerequisite: 103-104, or 105-106 (recommended), or permission of instructor; prior completion of MAT 201 or 203 recommended. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: Staff PHY 207 Mechanics and Waves Not offered this year SEN Covers the basics of analytical mechanics, but shifts the emphasis to wave phenomena before moving on to aspects of quantum mechanics and quantum statistical mechanics. Special relativity is given greater weight than it usually is in PHY 205. Offers students a path toward the physics concentration that is less intensive than PHY 205 and more accessible to students with less mathematical background. Prerequisites: PHY103-104, or PHY105-106; one 200-level math course; or permission of instructor. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: Staff PHY 208 Principles of Quantum Mechanics Spring SEN An introduction to quantum mechanics, the physics of atoms, electrons, photons, and other elementary particles. Topics include state functions and the probability interpretation, the Schrödinger equation, the uncertainty principle, the eigenvalue problem, operators and their algebras, angular momentum and spin, perturbation theory, and the hydrogen atom. Prerequisites: PHY 106, PHY 205, or PHY 207 and MAT 203 or MAT 217, and MAT 204 or MAT 218 (MAT 204/MAT 218 can be taken concurrently); or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: Staff PHY 209 Computational Physics Seminar Fall SEL Introduction to Python coding and its application to data collection, analysis and statistical inference. The course consists of weekly hands-on labs that introduce the students to the Linux coding environment with Jupyter and Python modules. Labs involve configuring a Raspberry Pi to interface with hardware sensors to collect interrupt-driven measurements. Multivariate discriminators and confidence levels for hypothesis testing will be applied to data samples. Labs are drawn from different forms of sensors data from accelerometers and photodetectors to external sources including radio-astronomy and XRF analysis of Art Museum paintings. Instructed by: Staff PHY 210 Experimental Physics Seminar Spring SEL This seminar introduces fundamental techniques of electronics and instrumentation. The course consists of weekly hands-on labs that introduce the students to the fascinating world of electronics. We begin with learning how to build circuits and probe their behavior and then explore what can be done to create instrumentation and make measurements. We start with analog electronics and then proceed with programmable digital logic with FPGAs. The final project involves Machine Learning implemented in FPGAs, a glimpse of what modern electronics can do. Instructed by: C. Tully PHY 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 231) PHY 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 232) PHY 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 233) PHY 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 234) PHY 301 Thermal Physics Fall SEN A unified introduction to the physics of systems with many degrees of freedom: thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, both classical and quantum. Applications will include phase equilibrium, classical and quantum gases, and properties of solids. Three lectures. Prerequisites: Any one of PHY 106, 205, 207 or 208, or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff PHY 304 Advanced Electromagnetism Spring SEN Extensions of electromagnetic theory including some important applications of Maxwell's equations. Solutions to Laplace's equation--boundary value problems. Retarded potentials. Electromagnetic waves and radiation. Special relativity. Mathematical tools developed as required. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 104 or 106. Instructed by: Staff PHY 305 Introduction to the Quantum Theory Fall SEN A second course on the basic principles of quantum mechanics with emphasis on applications to problems from atomic and solid-state physics. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 208. Instructed by: Staff PHY 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy (See AST 309) PHY 312 Experimental Physics Fall/Spring SEL The course offers six different experiments from the advanced laboratory collection. Experiments include Josephson effect, ß-decay, holography, Mössbauer spectroscopy, optical pumping. Lectures stress modern experimental methods and devices. One lecture, one laboratory. Instructed by: Staff PHY 321 General Relativity (See AST 301) PHY 371 Global Geophysics (See GEO 371) PHY 401 Cosmology (See AST 401) PHY 402 Stars and Star Formation (See AST 403) PHY 403 Mathematical Methods of Physics (also MAT 493 ) Not offered this year QCR Mathematical methods and techniques that are essential for modern theoretical physics. Topics such as group theory, Lie algebras, and differential geometry are discussed and applied to concrete physical problems. Special attention will be given to mathematical techniques that originated in physics, such as functional integration and current algebras. Three classes. Prerequisite: MAT 330 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff PHY 405 Modern Physics I: Condensed-Matter Physics Not offered this year SEN An introduction to modern condensed-matter physics, this course builds on quantum and statistical mechanics to study the electronic properties of solids, including band theory. Metals, quantum Hall effects, semiconductors, superconductors and magnetism, as well as phase transitions in condensed systems and structure and dynamic of solids and liquid crystals. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: PHY 208, PHY 301, and PHY 305. Instructed by: Staff PHY 406 Modern Physics II: Nuclear and Elementary Particle Physics Not offered this year SEN The basic features of nuclear and elementary particle physics are described and interpreted, primarily in the context of the "Standard Model." Problems of current interest are discussed. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: Staff PHY 408 Modern Classical Dynamics Fall SEN The course discusses some of the most important and beautiful phenomena described by classical dynamics. This includes generalized Hamiltonian systems and variational principles, shock waves propagation, gravitational instabilities, simple solitons and vortices plus elementary exposition of the theories of turbulence and period doubling. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: PHY 205 or 207. Instructed by: Staff PHY 419 Physics and Chemistry of Earth's Interior (See GEO 419) PHY 442 Geodynamics (See GEO 442) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University