Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Architecture and Engineering Faculty Director Maria E. Garlock (co-director) Forrest M. Meggers (co-director) Executive Committee Sigrid M. Adriaenssens, Civil and Environmental Eng Maria E. Garlock, Civil and Environmental Eng Forrest M. Meggers, Architecture Guy J.P. Nordenson, Architecture Mónica Ponce de León, Architecture, ex officio James A. Smith, Civil and Environmental Eng For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Program in Architecture and Engineering enables students to work at the intersection of engineering and architecture. It is a framework for interdisciplinary study to tackle problems that cannot be addressed by one discipline. The certificate is an opportunity to respond dynamically to evolving global challenges, where elegant and effective solutions lead to more resilient and sustainable communities. Admission to the Program The Program in Architecture and Engineering is open to all undergraduate students, regardless of discipline. A student planning to enroll in the program should consult with one of the co-directors of the program, who will assign a special adviser to help plan a curriculum. Program of Study In addition to course requirements, the student must identify a global challenge theme, and incorporate theme in senior thesis as described below. Identify a Global Challenge Theme: Examples of current challenges are consequences of increasing population densities, limited water supplies, limited natural resources, climate change, ageing infrastructure, and natural and man-made hazards. Within this framework, students in the program will be asked to identify a global challenge to inform their program of study. This question will be posed to students in the application process for entering the program. We expect the program to be adaptive to emerging new challenges that the existing degree structure cannot respond to immediately. Incorporate Theme in Senior Thesis: The Senior Thesis should address a cross-disciplinary theme that can be a global challenge. The student must also contribute to a thesis colloquium in Sept/Oct of senior year, currently envisioned as ~10 minute discussions per student with the committee presenting the thesis topic and having an opportunity to discuss and match faculty advisers. This process will create an awareness of how the topic crosses disciplines, and how it addresses a relevant global challenge. Course Requirements Six courses total are required to obtain the certificate the Program in Architecture and Engineering, four of which must be selected within a field of expertise chosen by the student. No more than two courses from the six may double count towards the major and certificate. Students may use no more than one course taken on a pass/D/fail basis to satisfy program requirements. All courses combined should illustrate a coherent program of study that addresses a global theme or challenge. The following two design courses are required for all students: ARC 203 Introduction to Architectural Thinking ARC 204 Introduction to Architectural Design (Studio Class) or ARC 205 Interdisciplinary Design Studio One course is required within a “field of expertise” chosen by the student: Structures: CEE 262 (A or B) Structures and the Urban Environment Computation: ARC 311 Building Science & Tech: Building Systems Environment: ARC 208/ENE 202 Designing Sustainable Systems (Note: With approval of the committee, the student may construct their own “field of expertise” that demonstrates a coherent program of study addressing a global challenge theme). Three additional courses are selected from a list of approved electives in each field of expertise. The preapproved courses within each field of expertise are listed below: Structures ARC 204 or ARC 205 ARC 206 Geometry and Architectural Representation ARC 311 Building Science and Technology: Building Systems ARC 374 Computational Design ARC 350 Junior Studio ARC 351 Junior Studio II CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids CEE 312 Statics of Structures CEE 361 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite Elements CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering CEE 366 Design of Reinforced concrete structures CEE 374 Autonomous Fabrication and Robotics CEE 418 Extraordinary Processes CEE 440 Elements of Conceptual Design and Analysis of Structures CEE 463 A Social and Multi-Dimensional Exploration of Structures CEE 538 Holistic Analysis of Heritage Structures CEE 546 Form Finding of Structural Surfaces EGR 251 or EGR 351 or EGR 451 Community Project Studios MSE 301 Materials Science and Engineering OR MAE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials MSE 302 Laboratory Techniques in Materials Science and Engineering Computation ARC 204 or ARC 205 ARC 206 Geometry and Architectural Representation ARC 374 Computational Design ARC 596 Embodied Computation CEE 546 Form Finding of Structural Surfaces COS 126 General Computer Science COS 217 Introduction to Programming Systems COS 226 Algorithms and Data Structures COS 324 Introduction to Machine Learning COS 424 Fundamentals of Machine Learning ELE 206 (COS 306) Contemporary Logic Design ELE 364 Machine Learning for Predictive Data Analysis Environment ARC 204 or ARC 205 EGR 251 or EGR 351 or EGR 451 Community Project Studios ARC 382 Environmental Challenges and Urban Solutions ART 250 Architecture, Globalization, Environment ARC 406 Energy and Form ARC 519 Climate Change, Adaptation and Urban Design ARC 509 Integrated Building Systems CEE 207 Intro to Environmental Engineering CEE 304 Environmental Engineering and Energy CEE 311 Global Air Pollution CEE 477 Engineering Design for Sustainable Development MAE 221 Thermodynamics MAE 228 Energy Technologies in the 21st Century MAE 328 Energy for Greenhouse-Constrained World MSE 301 Materials Science and Engineering OR MAE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials MSE 302 Laboratory Techniques in Materials Science and Engineering Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill the program requirements will receive a certificate of proficiency upon graduation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University