Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics Faculty Director Peter Constantin Director of Undergraduate Studies Ramon van Handel Director of Graduate Studies Maria Chudnovsky Executive Committee René A. Carmona, Oper Res and Financial Eng Peter Constantin, Mathematics Paul Seymour, Mathematics Amit Singer, Mathematics Howard A. Stone, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Jeroen Tromp, Geosciences Associated Faculty Amir Ali Ahmadi, Oper Res and Financial Eng Michael Aizenman, Physics Yacine Aït-Sahalia, Economics William Bialek, Physics Mark Braverman, Computer Science Adam S. Burrows, Astrophysical Sciences Roberto Car, Chemistry Bernard Chazelle, Computer Science David P. Dobkin, Computer Science Jianqing Fan, Oper Res and Financial Eng Jason W. Fleischer, Electrical & Comp Engineering Mikko P. Haataja, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Gregory W. Hammett, PPPL Theory Isaac M. Held, Atmospheric & Oceanic Sciences Sergiu Klainerman, Mathematics Naomi E. Leonard, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Simon A. Levin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Luigi Martinelli, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng William A. Massey, Oper Res and Financial Eng H. Vincent Poor, Electrical & Comp Engineering Frans Pretorius, Physics Herschel A. Rabitz, Chemistry Peter J. Ramadge, Electrical & Comp Engineering Jennifer L. Rexford, Computer Science Clarence W. Rowley, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Szymon M. Rusinkiewicz, Computer Science Mykhaylo Shkolnikov, Oper Res and Financial Eng Frederik J. Simons, Geosciences Jaswinder P. Singh, Computer Science Ronnie Sircar, Oper Res and Financial Eng Mete Soner, Oper Res and Financial Eng John D. Storey, Integrative Genomics Robert E. Tarjan, Computer Science Corina E. Tarnita, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Salvatore Torquato, Chemistry Olga G. Troyanskaya, Computer Science Robert J. Vanderbei, Oper Res and Financial Eng Professor Noga M. Alon Emily Ann Carter Maria Chudnovsky Peter Constantin Weinan E Amit Singer Romain Teyssier Jeroen Tromp Associate Professor Ramon van Handel Lecturer Yunpeng Shi Visiting Lecturer Gabe Perez-Giz For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information There has never been a better time to be a mathematician. The combination of mathematics and computer modeling has transformed science and engineering and is changing the nature of research in the biological sciences, data science, and many other areas. Students seeking to pursue an academic program with a strong focus on applied mathematics may concentrate in mathematics with a course of study geared towards applications, or may concentrate in the sciences or engineering and enroll in the certificate Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics (PACM). Requirements for a concentration in the Department of Mathematics are a minimum of eight upper-level courses in mathematics or applied mathematics, including four basic courses on real analysis, complex analysis, algebra, and geometry or topology. It is possible to design a course of undergraduate study aimed more strongly toward applications. Applied and computational mathematics faculty have developed core courses in applied mathematics where the emphasis is on computational methods and mathematical modeling. The latter is central to applied mathematics where it is not only necessary to acquire mathematical techniques and skills, but also important to learn about the application domain. The PACM certificate is designed for students from engineering and from the physical, biological, and social sciences who are looking to broaden their mathematical and computational skills. It is also an opportunity for mathematically oriented students to discover the challenges presented by applications from the sciences and engineering. Students interested in the undergraduate certificate must contact the program's undergraduate representative on or before February 1 of their junior year to discuss their interests, and to lay out a plan for their course selection and research component. Program of Study The requirements for the certificate in applied and computational mathematics consist of: A total of five courses normally 300 level or higher (requires letter grade; pass/D/fail not accepted), at least two of which are not included in the usual requirements for the candidate's concentration; Independent work consisting of a paper in one of the following formats: (a) a project that you are working on with a professor; or (b) a summer research project. However, the independent work may not be used to satisfy any requirements of your concentration or of any other certificate. In particular, you may not use your junior paper or senior thesis to satisfy the independent work requirement for the certificate. A significant extension of the senior thesis or of a course project may however be used to satisfy the requirement, subject to approval of the PACM undergraduate representative. Students are required to participate during the spring semester of their junior and senior years in a not-for-credit colloquium offered by PACM. This will provide a forum for presentation and discussion of independent work among all certificate students and will introduce them to a broad range of areas within applied mathematics. The course requirement may be satisfied by a broad range of courses that place a particular emphasis in applied mathematics, which are offered by the mathematics department and by science, engineering, and economics departments. The five required courses must be distributed between the following two areas, with at least two from each area: Mathematical foundations and techniques, including differential equations, real and complex analysis, discrete mathematics, probability, numerical methods, etc. Mathematical applications in diverse areas offered by the applied and computational mathematics program and by science, engineering, and economics departments. An extensive list of advanced undergraduate and some graduate courses that meet the certificate requirements can be found on the program website. Courses that do not appear on this list may be approved by the PACM undergraduate representative. Specific programs should be tailored in consultation with the PACM undergraduate representative to meet the individual needs and interests of each student. The independent work requirement is typically done under the supervision of a PACM core or affiliated faculty member, but external advisors are regularly accommodated. In the latter case, a second reader from PACM is asked to verify that the paper contains enough applied mathematics to satisfy the certificate requirements. In any case, plans for independent work must be approved by the undergraduate representative. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all requirements of the program will receive a certificate of proficiency in applied and computational mathematics upon graduation. Courses APC 192 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics (See EGR 192) APC 199 Math Alive (also MAT 199 ) Spring QCR An exploration of some of the mathematical ideas behind important modern applications, from banking and computing to listening to music. Intended for students who have not had college-level mathematics and are not planning to major in a mathematically based field. The course is organized in independent two-week modules focusing on particular applications, such as bar codes, CD-players, population models, and space flight. The emphasis is on ideas and mathematical reasoning, not on sophisticated mathematical techniques. Two 90-minute classes, one computer laboratory. Instructed by: Staff APC 321 Numerical Methods (See MAT 321) APC 323 Topics in Mathematical Modeling (See MAT 323) APC 345 The Efficient Universe (See COS 345) APC 377 Combinatorial Mathematics (See MAT 377) APC 441 Computational Geophysics (See GEO 441) APC 486 Transmission and Compression of Information (See ECE 486) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University