Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Mathematics Faculty Chair Igor Rodnianski Associate Chair János Kollár Director of Undergraduate Studies Jennifer M. Johnson János Kollár Director of Graduate Studies Mihalis Dafermos Evita Nestoridi Professor Michael Aizenman Noga M. Alon Manjul Bhargava Sun-Yung A. Chang Maria Chudnovsky Fernando Codá Marques Peter Constantin Mihalis Dafermos Zeev Dvir Weinan E Charles L. Fefferman David Gabai June E. Huh Alexandru D. Ionescu Nicholas M. Katz Sergiu Klainerman János Kollár Emmy Murphy Assaf Naor Peter Steven Ozsváth John V. Pardon Igor Rodnianski Peter C. Sarnak Paul Seymour Amit Singer Christopher M. Skinner Allan M. Sly Zoltán Szabó Chenyang Xu Paul C. Yang Shou-Wu Zhang Assistant Professor Tristan J. Buckmaster Gabriele Di Cerbo Jonathan Hanselman Casey L. Kelleher Ana Menezes Evita Nestoridi Lue Pan Yunqing Tang Ian M. Zemke Boyu Zhang Ruobing Zhang Associated Faculty John P. Burgess, Philosophy René A. Carmona, Oper Res and Financial Eng Bernard Chazelle, Computer Science Hans P. Halvorson, Philosophy William A. Massey, Oper Res and Financial Eng Frans Pretorius, Physics Robert E. Tarjan, Computer Science Robert J. Vanderbei, Oper Res and Financial Eng Ramon van Handel, Oper Res and Financial Eng Instructor David Boozer Matija Bucic Clark W. Butler Alan Chang Duncan A. Dauvergne Y. Baris Kartal Jennifer Li Joaquin Moraga Laurel A. Ohm Sarah Peluse Ravi Shankar Artane Siad Maxime C. Van De Moortel Fan Wei Jingwei Xiao Liyang Yang Andrew V Yarmola University Lecturer Jennifer M. Johnson Senior Lecturer Mark W. McConnell Lecturer Amitesh Datta Jonathan M. Fickenscher Daniel Ginsberg Henry Theodore Horton Tatiana K. Howard Nicholas F. Marshall Takumi Murayama Eden Prywes Samuel Pérez-Ayala Hannah Schwartz Ary Shaviv John T. Sheridan Jonathan J. Zhu Visiting Lecturer with Rank of Professor Camillo De Lellis Helmut H. Hofer Jacob A. Lurie Akshay Venkatesh For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study Most first year students and sophomores interested in science, engineering, or finance take courses from the standard calculus and linear algebra sequence 103-104-201-202, which emphasizes concrete computations over more theoretical considerations. Note that 201 and 202 can be taken in either order. Students who are not prepared to begin with 103 may take 100, an introduction to calculus with pre-calculus review intended for students whose highest math SAT score is below 650. Prospective economics majors can minimally fulfill their mathematics prerequisites with (100)-103-175. Note that 175 covers selected topics from 201, with biology and economics applications in mind. Prospective math-track economics/finance majors are recommended to take the standard sequence 103-104-201-202 instead of 175. More mathematically inclined students, especially prospective physics majors, may opt to replace 201-202 with 203-204, for greater emphasis on theory and more challenging computational problems. Prospective mathematics majors must take at least one course introducing formal mathematical argument and rigorous proofs. The recommended first-year sequence for prospective majors is 215-217-300. Prospective majors who already have substantial experience with university-level proof-based analysis courses may consider the accelerated sequence 216-218 instead. Other possible sequences for prospective majors include 214-204-203 and 203-204-215, although the latter two are relatively rare. Note that 203 and 204 can be taken in either order. Placement Guidelines Students who plan to take 100, 103, 104, or 175 should register for MAT NFO1, a placement/orientation workshop in the first week of classes. Students who plan to take 201 or 201 should register for MAT NFO2. Students who need placement advice about 214, 215, or 216 should consult the Department of Mathematics home page or Professor McConnell, the junior advisor. Students with little or no background in calculus, but with strong pre-calculus skills, should take 103. Alternatively, 100 offers intensive pre-calculus review, along with an introduction to the main ideas of calculus, as preparation for 103. To succeed in 104 or 175, a background in differential calculus at the level of a 5 on the AB Advanced Placement Examination or a 4 on the BC Advanced Placement Examination is advised. To succeed in 201, a background in differential and integral calculus at the level of a 5 on the BC Advanced Placement Examination is advised. Students who possess, in addition, a particularly strong interest in mathematics as well as a SAT mathematics score of at least 750 may opt for 203 or 214 or 215 or 216 instead. Advanced Placement One unit of advanced placement credit is provisionally granted when a student enrolls in MAT 104 or 175 in the fall term of their first year. Two units of advanced placement credit are provisionally granted when a student enrolls in MAT 201, 203, 215, or 216 in the fall term of their first year. Provisional credit will be converted to advanced placement credit upon successful completion of the relevant course. Prerequisites Generally, either 215-217 or 216-218 or 203-204-215 are strongly recommended for admission to the department. Other paths involving 201, 202, and 214 are also possible. Prospective mathematics majors should consult with the department early and plan a program that includes as much of the 215-217-300 or 216-218 sequence as possible. Most majors begin taking courses at the 300-level by the second semester of the sophomore year, in preparation for their junior independent work. Some of our successful majors became interested in mathematics as a major after taking 103 or 104. Such students should consult with the junior advisor or the associate director of undergraduate studies as soon as possible. Further information for prospective majors is available on the department home page. Program of Study Students must complete four core requirements: one course in real analysis (e.g. 300 or 320 or 325 or 425 or 385) one course in complex analysis (e.g. 330 or 335) one course in algebra (e.g. 340 or 345) one course in geometry or topology (e.g. 355 or 365 or 560) It is recommended that students complete some of these core requirements by the end of the sophomore year. Completing these core courses early gives more options for junior and senior independent work. Note: One course in discrete mathematics (e.g. 375, 377 or 378) can replace the geometry/topology core requirement, if desired. In addition to the four core requirements, students must complete an additional four courses at the 300 level or higher, up to three of which may be cognate courses outside the mathematics department, with permission from the junior or senior advisors or director of undergraduate studies. No more than two of the eight courses may be reading courses. The departmental grade (the average grade of the eight departmental courses) together with grades and reports on independent work is the basis on which honors and prizes are awarded on graduation. Students should refer to Course Offerings to check which courses are offered in a given term. Programs of study in various fields of pure mathematics and applied mathematics are available. Appropriate plans of study may be arranged for students interested in specialized related fields such as physics, the biological sciences, finance, and computer science, for example. For students interested in these areas, a coherent program containing up to three courses in a cognate field may be approved. Independent Work All departmental students engage in independent work, supervised by a member of the department chosen in consultation with a departmental advisor. The independent work of the junior year generally consists of participating actively in a junior seminar in both the fall and the spring semesters. Alternatively, a student may opt to replace one junior seminar with supervised reading in a special subject and then writing a paper based on that reading. The independent work in the senior year centers on writing a senior thesis. A substantial percentage of our majors work with faculty in other departments on their senior project. Senior Departmental Examination Each senior takes an oral examination based on the senior thesis and the broader sub-field to which it contributes. A departmental committee conducts the examination in May. Courses MAT 100 Calculus Foundations Fall QCR Introduction to limits and derivatives as preparation for further courses in calculus. Fundamental functions (polynomials, rational functions, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric) and their graphs will be also reviewed. Other topics include tangent and normal lines, linearization, computing area and rates of change. The emphasis will be on learning to think independently and creatively in the mathematical setting. Instructed by: Staff MAT 102 Survey of Calculus Not offered this year QCR One semester survey of the major concepts and computational techniques of calculus including limits, derivatives and integrals. Emphasis on basic examples and applications of calculus including approximation, differential equations, rates of change and error estimation for students who will take no further calculus. Prerequisites: MAT100 or equivalent. Restrictions: Cannot receive course credit for both MAT103 and MAT102. Provides adequate preparation for MAT175. Three classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 103 Calculus I Fall/Spring QCR First semester of calculus. Topics include limits, continuity, the derivative, basic differentiation formulas and applications (curve-sketching, optimization, related rates), definite and indefinite integrals, the fundamental theorem of calculus. Prerequisite: MAT100 or equivalent. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 104 Calculus II Fall/Spring QCR Continuation of MAT103. Topics include techniques of integration, arclength, area, volume, convergence of series and improper integrals, L'Hopital's rule, power series and Taylor's theorem, introduction to differential equations and complex numbers. Prerequisite: MAT103 or equivalent. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 175 Mathematics for Economics/Life Sciences Fall/Spring QCR Survey of topics from multivariable calculus as preparation for future course work in economics or life sciences. Topics include basic techniques of integration, average value, vectors, partial derivatives, gradient, optimization of multivariable functions, and constrained optimization with Lagrange multipliers. Students preparing for math track econometrics and finance courses need MAT201/202 instead. Students who complete 175 can continue in 202 if they wish. Instructed by: Staff MAT 191 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics (See EGR 191) MAT 192 An Integrated Introduction to Engineering, Mathematics, Physics (See EGR 192) MAT 199 Math Alive (See APC 199) MAT 201 Multivariable Calculus Fall/Spring QCR Vectors in the plane and in space, vector functions and motion, surfaces, coordinate systems, functions of two or three variables and their derivatives, maxima and minima and applications, double and triple integrals, vector fields, and Stokes's theorem. Prerequisite: 104 or equivalent. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 202 Linear Algebra with Applications Fall/Spring QCR Companion course to MAT201. Matrices, linear transformations, linear independence and dimension, bases and coordinates, determinants, orthogonal projection, least squares, eigenvectors and their applications to quadratic forms and dynamical systems. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 203 Advanced Vector Calculus Fall QCR Vector spaces, limits, derivatives of vector-valued functions, Taylor's formula, Lagrange multipliers, double and triple integrals, change of coordinates, surface and line integrals, generalizations of the fundamental theorem of calculus to higher dimensions. More abstract than 201 but more concrete than 216/218. Recommended for prospective physics majors and others with a strong interest in applied mathematics. Prerequisite: MAT104 or equivalent. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 204 Advanced Linear Algebra with Applications Spring QCR Companion course to MAT203. Linear systems of equations, linear independence and dimension, linear transforms, determinants, (real and complex) eigenvectors and eigenvalues, orthogonality, spectral theorem, singular value decomposition, Jordan forms, other topics as time permits. More abstract than MAT202 but more concrete than MAT217. Recommended for prospective physics majors and others with a strong interest in applied mathematics. Prerequisite: MAT104 or equivalent. Four classes. Instructed by: Staff MAT 214 Numbers, Equations, and Proofs Fall QCR An introduction to classical number theory to prepare for higher-level courses in the department. Topics include Pythagorean triples and sums of squares, unique factorization, Chinese remainder theorem, arithmetic of Gaussian integers, finite fields and cryptography, arithmetic functions, and quadratic reciprocity. There will be a topic from more advanced or more applied number theory such as p-adic numbers, cryptography, and Fermat's Last Theorem. This course is suitable both for students preparing to enter the mathematics department and for non-majors interested in exposure to higher mathematics. Instructed by: Staff MAT 215 Single Variable Analysis with an Introduction to Proofs Fall/Spring QCR An introduction to the mathematical discipline of analysis, to prepare for higher-level course work in the department. Topics include the rigorous epsilon-delta treatment of limits, convergence, and uniform convergence of sequences and series. Continuity, uniform continuity, and differentiability of functions. The Heine-Borel theorem, the Riemann integral, conditions for integrability of functions and term by term differentiation and integration of series of functions, Taylor's theorem. Instructed by: Staff MAT 217 Honors Linear Algebra Spring QCR A rigorous course in linear algebra with an emphasis on proof rather than applications. Topics include vector spaces, linear transformations, inner product spaces, determinants, eigenvalues, the Cayley-Hamilton theorem, Jordan form, the spectral theorem for normal transformations, bilinear and quadratic forms. Instructed by: Staff MAT 218 Multivariable Analysis and Linear Algebra II Spring QCR Continuation of Multivariable Analysis and Linear Algebra I (MAT 216) from the fall. A rigorous course in analysis with an emphasis on proof rather than applications. Topics include metric spaces, completeness, compactness, total derivatives, partial derivatives, inverse function theorem, implicit function theorem, Riemann integrals in several variables, Fubini. See the department website for details: http://www.math.princeton.edu. Instructed by: Staff MAT 300 Multivariable Analysis I Fall QCR To cover the elements of calculus on manifolds. Introduce the concept of differentiable manifold, develop the notions of vector fields and differential forms, stokes theorem and the de Rham complex. The basic existence theorem in ODE is used to prove the Frobenius theorem on integrability of plane fields. The intent is to provide the preparation for the courses in differential geometry and topology. Instructed by: C. Li MAT 305 Mathematical Logic Not offered this year QCR A development of logic from the mathematical viewpoint, including propositional and predicate calculus, consequence and deduction, truth and satisfaction, the Goedel completeness and incompleteness theorems. Applications to model theory, recursion theory, and set theory as time permits. Some underclass background in logic or in mathematics is recommended. Instructed by: Staff MAT 306 Advanced Logic (See PHI 323) MAT 320 Introduction to Real Analysis Fall QCR Introduction to real analysis, including the theory of Lebesgue measure and integration on the line and n-dimensional space and the theory of Fourier series. Prerequisite: MAT201 and MAT202 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 323 Topics in Mathematical Modeling (also APC 323 ) Not offered this year QCR Draws problems from the sciences and engineering for which mathematical models have been developed and analyzed to describe, understand and predict natural and man-made phenomena. Emphasizes model building strategies, analytical and computational methods, and how scientific problems motivate new mathematics. This interdisciplinary course in collaboration with Molecular Biology, Psychology and the Program in Neuroscience is directed toward upper class undergraduate students and first-year graduate students with knowledge of linear algebra and differential equations. Instructed by: Staff MAT 325 Analysis I: Fourier Series and Partial Differential Equations Spring QCR Basic facts about Fourier Series, Fourier Transformations, and applications to the classical partial differential equations will be covered. Also Fast Fourier Transforms, Finite Fourier Series, Dirichlet Characters, and applications to properties of primes. Prerequisites: 215, 218, or permission of instructor. Instructed by: Staff MAT 330 Complex Analysis with Applications Spring QCR The theory of functions of one complex variable, covering power series expansions, residues, contour integration, and conformal mapping. Although the theory will be given adequate treatment, the emphasis of this course is the use of complex analysis as a tool for solving problems. Prerequisite: MAT201 and MAT202 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 335 Analysis II: Complex Analysis Fall QCR Study of functions of a complex variable, with emphasis on interrelations with other parts of mathematics. Cauchy's theorems, singularities, contour integration, power series, infinite products. The gamma and zeta functions and the prime number theorem. Elliptic functions, theta functions, Jacobi's triple product and combinatorics. An overall view of Special Functions via the hypergeometric series. This course is the second semester of a four-semester sequence, but may be taken independently of the other semesters. Instructed by: Staff MAT 345 Algebra I Fall QCR This course will cover the basics of symmetry and group theory, with applications. Topics include the fundamental theorem of finitely generated abelian groups, Sylow theorems, group actions, and the representation theory of finite groups, rings and modules. Instructed by: Staff MAT 346 Algebra II Spring QCR Continuation of MAT345. Further develop knowledge of algebraic structures by exploring examples that connect to higher mathematics. There will be opportunities for a student to explore an advanced topic in great depth, possibly for a junior project. Instructed by: Staff MAT 355 Introduction to Differential Geometry Spring QCR Introduction to geometry of surfaces. Surfaces in Euclidean space, second fundamental form, minimal surfaces, geodesics, Gauss curvature, Gauss-Gonnet formula, uniformization of surfaces, elementary notions of contact geometry. Prerequisite: MAT218 or 350 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 365 Topology Fall QCR Introduction to point-set topology, the fundamental group, covering spaces, methods of calculation and applications. Prerequisite: MAT202 or 204 or 218 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 375 Introduction to Graph Theory (also COS 342 ) Spring QCR The fundamental theorems and algorithms of graph theory. Topics include: connectivity, matchings, graph coloring, planarity, the four-color theorem, extremal problems, network flows, and related algorithms. Prerequisite: MAT202 or 204 or 217 or equivalent. Instructed by: P. Seymour MAT 377 Combinatorial Mathematics (also APC 377 ) Fall QCR Combinatorics is the study of enumeration and structure of discrete objects. These structures are widespread throughout mathematics, including geometry, topology and algebra, as well as computer science, physics and optimization. This course will give an introduction to modern techniques in the field, and how they relate to objects such as polytopes, permutations and hyperplane arrangements. Instructed by: Staff MAT 378 Theory of Games Spring QCR Games in extensive form, pure and behavioral strategies; normal form, mixed strategies, equilibrium points; coalitions, characteristic-function form, imputations, solution concepts; related topics and applications. Prerequisite: MAT202 or 204 or 217 or equivalent. MAT215 or equivalent is recommended. Instructed by: Staff MAT 380 Probability and Stochastic Systems (See ORF 309) MAT 385 Probability Theory Spring QCR Sequence of independent trials, applications to number theory and analysis, Monte Carlo method. Markov chains, ergodic theorem for Markov chains. Entropy and McMillan theorem. Random walks, recurrence and non-recurrence; connection with the linear difference equations. Strong laws of large numbers, random series and products. Weak convergence of probability measures, weak Helly theorems, Fourier transforms of distributions. Limit theorems of probability theory. Prerequisite: MAT203 or 218 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 391 Mathematics in Engineering I (See MAE 305) MAT 392 Mathematics in Engineering II (See MAE 306) MAT 393 Mathematical Programming Not offered this year QCR Linear programs, duality, Dantzig's simplex method; theory of dual linear systems; matrix games, von Neumann's minimax theorem, simplex solution; algorithms for assignment, transport, flow; brief introduction to nonlinear programming. Instructed by: Staff MAT 407 Theory of Computation (See COS 487) MAT 419 Topics in Number Theory Spring QCR Topics introducing various aspects of number theory, including analytic and algebraic number theory, L-functions, and modular forms. See Course Offerings listing for topic details. Prerequisites: MAT 215, 345, 346 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 425 Analysis III: Integration Theory and Hilbert Spaces Fall QCR The theory of Lebesgue integration in n-dimensional space. Differentiation theory. Hilbert space theory and applications to Fourier Transforms, and partial differential equations. Introduction to fractals. This course is the third semester of a four-semester sequence, but may be taken independently of the other semesters. Prerequisites: MAT215 or 218 or equivalent. Instructed by: Staff MAT 427 Ordinary Differential Equations Not offered this year QCR Introduction to the study of ordinary differential equations; explicit solutions, general properties of solutions, and applications. Topics include explicit solutions of some non-linear equations in two variables by separation of variables and integrating factors, explicit solution of simultaneous linear equations with constant coefficients, explicit solution of some linear equations with variable forcing term by Laplace transform methods, geometric methods (description of the phase portrait), and the fundamental existence and uniqueness theorem. Instructed by: Staff MAT 429 Topics in Analysis QCR Introduction to incompressible fluid dynamics. The course will give an introduction to the mathematical theory of the Euler equations, the fundamental partial differential equation arising in the study of incompressible fluids. We will discuss several topics in analysis that emerge in the study of these equations: Lebesgue and Sobolev spaces, distribution theory, elliptic PDEs, singular integrals, and Fourier analysis. Content varies from year to year. See Course Offerings listing for topic details. Instructed by: Staff MAT 449 Topics in Algebra Not offered this year QCR Topics in algebra selected from areas such as representation theory of finite groups and the theory of Lie algebras. Three classes. Prerequisite: MAT 345 or MAT 346. Instructed by: Staff MAT 459 Topics in Geometry QCR Topics in geometry selected from areas such as differentiable and Riemannian manifolds, point set and algebraic topology, integral geometry. Prerequisite: departmental permission. Instructed by: Staff MAT 473 Cryptography (See COS 433) MAT 474 Introduction to Analytic Combinatorics (See COS 488) MAT 478 Topics In Combinatorics Spring QCR This course will cover topics in Extremal Combinatorics including ones motivated by questions in other areas like Computer Science, Information Theory, Number Theory and Geometry. The subjects that will be covered include Graph powers, the Shannon capacity and the Witsenhausen rate of graphs, Szemeredi's Regularity Lemma and its applications in graph property testing and in the study of sets with no 3 term arithmetic progressions, the Combinatorial Nullstellensatz and its applications, the capset problem, Containers and list coloring, and related topics as time permits. Instructed by: Staff MAT 486 Random Processes Not offered this year QCR Wiener measure. Stochastic differential equations. Markov diffusion processes. Linear theory of stationary processes. Ergodicity, mixing, central limit theorem for stationary processes. If time permits, the theory of products of random matrices and PDE with random coefficients will be discussed. Prerequisite: MAT385. Instructed by: Staff MAT 493 Mathematical Methods of Physics (See PHY 403) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University