Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Home Undergraduate Announcement 2021-22 Welcome! The Undergraduate Announcement presents the academic regulations, programs of study, and course offerings of the University. Please use the contents links to navigate throughout its components, or access shortcuts through the “I’m looking for” search portal. Please refer to the Princeton University website for further information. AB Concentrations BSE Concentrations Academic Regulations Important Links A.B. Program of Study B.S.E. Program of Study Academic Advising and Academic Resources General Education Requirements Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Nondiscrimination Statement. In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and other federal, state and local laws, Princeton University does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, religion, national or ethnic origin, disability, genetic information, or veteran status in any phase of its employment process, in any phase of its admission or financial aid programs, or other aspects of its educational programs or activities. The vice provost for institutional equity and diversity is the individual designated by the University to coordinate its efforts to comply with Title IX, Section 504 and other equal opportunity and affirmative action regulations and laws. Questions or concerns regarding Title IX, Section 504 or other aspects of Princeton's equal opportunity or affirmative action programs should be directed to Michele Minter, Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity, Princeton University, 205 Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544 or 609-258-6110. Further, inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. Notice. Plans of study, course descriptions, faculty lists, and assignments of lecturers apply to the academic year 2021-22 to the best of our knowledge as of August 2, 2021. The University reserves the right to change programs of study, academic requirements, assignment of lecturers, teaching staffs, or the announced academic calendar without prior notice, in accordance with established procedures. Accreditation. Princeton University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. Requests to review documentation supporting this accreditation should be directed to the dean of the college. Programs of study in aerospace engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, and mechanical engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org/. The Program in Teacher Preparation is accredited by the Teacher Education Accreditation Council (TEAC). Supporting documentation may be reviewed by contacting the dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science or the director of the Program in Teacher Preparation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University