Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Translation and Intercultural Communication Faculty Director Karen R. Emmerich Christiane D. Fellbaum (acting) Deputy Director Christiane D. Fellbaum (acting) Executive Committee David M. Bellos, French & Italian Denis Feeney, Classics Rubén Gallo, Spanish & Portuguese Michael D. Gordin, History Barbara Graziosi, Classics Thomas W. Hare, Comparative Literature Daniel Heller-Roazen, Comparative Literature Joshua T. Katz, Classics Martin Kern, East Asian Studies Jhumpa Lahiri, Lewis Center for the Arts Esther H. Schor, English Associated Faculty Sandra L. Bermann, Comparative Literature For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Issues of translation and intercultural communication arise everywhere in the contemporary world: in literary texts, on the Internet, in television and film, in business, in science, and in questions of human rights. How does one translate the language of a poem? How does one translate a legal system or concepts such as democracy, or happiness, or scapegoat, or hero from one culture and language to another? How does the brain perform translation? What are the languages of artificial intelligence? How do we translate meanings across disciplinary as well as international borders--from genomics to dance, from philosophy to film? The Program in Translation and Intercultural Communication, an affiliate of the Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies, seeks to allow students to develop skills in language use and in the understanding of cultural and disciplinary difference. Translation across languages allows access to issues of intercultural differences, and the program encourages its students to think about the complexity of communicating across cultures, nations, and linguistic borders. For this reason, all students in the program must have proficiency in a language other than English, and must also spend time living in a country where that language is spoken. Though the program takes linguistic translation as its base, and has a strong international flavor, it also encourages students to study other forms of discourse - the languages of different scholarly disciplines, for example - and seeks to foster lively debate among the humanities, the natural and social sciences, and the arts. Program of Study All students enrolled in the certificate program are required to successfully complete the following program requirements. Each student's specific course of study must be approved by the program director: 1. The program's two core courses: TRA 200 Thinking Translation: Language Transfer and Cultural Communication, and TRA 400 Translation, Migration, Culture. 2. Four courses at the 200 level or above from at least two of the following three categories: a) Upper-level courses focusing on translation into and/or from a language (examples include: SPA 380, FRE 407, ARA 308, and CWR 306) b) Courses that contribute to an understanding of some aspect of translation (may be found in disciplines such as linguistics, psychology, philosophy, anthropology, history, comparative literature, etc.) c) Any course listed or cross-listed by the Program in Translation and Intercultural Communication (with the exception of TRA 200 and TRA 400) Courses outside these categories that contribute to an understanding of intercultural and interlingual communication may be substituted at the discretion of the program director. 3. International Experience. See Study and Work Abroad below. [Note: Due to the change in global circumstances brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, this requirement will be waived for the Class of 2022.] 4. Independent Work. Students in the program will write a senior thesis that incorporates issues of translation in one or more of its several senses. In departments where this option presents a difficulty, a student may petition to have another piece of independent work meet the requirement. Such projects may be completed, for instance, during a summer stay abroad. International Experience/Study or Work Abroad Students wishing to achieve a certificate in the program will spend a year, a semester, or six weeks of the summer in a Princeton-approved course of study or internship program in an area where the chosen non-English language of proficiency is spoken. Language Requirement In order to enter the program, a student should normally have completed at least two courses at the 200 level or above in a language other than English. Students who fulfill all requirements for the program will receive a certificate of proficiency in Translation and Intercultural Communication upon graduation. Courses TRA 200 Thinking Translation: Language Transfer and Cultural Communication (also COM 209 / HUM 209 ) Fall LA What is translation? What is a language? So essential and widespread is translation today that it has become a central analytic term for the contact of cultures, and a paradigm for studying many different aspects of our multilingual world. This course will consider translation as it appeared in the past, but especially as it constructs everyday life in the contemporary world. It will look at issues of anthropology, artificial intelligence, diplomacy, film, law and literature that involve interlingual and intercultural communication. Students should acquire an understanding of the problems and practices of modern translation. Instructed by: D. Bellos TRA 203 What is a Classic? (See CLA 203) TRA 204 Creative Writing (Literary Translation) (See CWR 205) TRA 205 A Survey of American Sign Language (See LIN 205) TRA 206 Creative Writing (Literary Translation) (See CWR 206) TRA 208 Origins and Nature of English Vocabulary (See CLA 208) TRA 209 Intermediate American Sign Language (See LIN 207) TRA 210 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation (See SPA 210) TRA 214 Advanced American Sign Language (See LIN 214) TRA 219 Translating America (See ENG 219) TRA 300 Advanced Sanskrit: Vedic Language, Grammar, and Literature (See SAN 300) TRA 301 Introduction to Machine Translation (also COS 401 / LIN 304 ) Spring This course will provide an in-depth study of the Machine Translation paradigms (direct, transfer, statistical/example, interlingua and neural network) used in state-of-the-art speech-to-speech and text-based MT systems, from computational and linguistic perspectives. Techniques for processing human languages (morphological analysis, tagging, syntactic and semantic parsing, and language generation) will be discussed. Linguistic variation across languages and its impact on computational models will be presented. Projects will involve implementing speech/text translation components, identifying their limitations and suggesting improvements. Instructed by: S. Bangalore TRA 302 Topics in Hindi-Urdu (See HIN 304) TRA 303 Bilingualism (See LIN 308) TRA 305 Advanced Creative Writing (Literary Translation) (See CWR 305) TRA 309 Theory and Practice of Arabic to English Translation (See ARA 308) TRA 332 Who Owns This Sentence? Copyright Culture from the Romantic Era to the Age of the Internet (See COM 332) TRA 351 Great Books from Little Languages (See COM 351) TRA 357 Literature, Culture, and Politics (See FRE 357) TRA 380 Translation Workshop: Spanish to English (See SPA 380) TRA 400 Translation, Migration, Culture (also COM 409 / HUM 400 ) Fall SA This course will explore the crucial connections between migration, language, and translation. Drawing on texts from a range of genres and disciplines - from memoir and fiction to scholarly work in translation studies, migration studies, political science, anthropology, and sociology - we will focus on how language and translation affect the lives of those who move through and settle in other cultures, and how, in turn, human mobility affects language and modes of belonging. Instructed by: K. Emmerich TRA 402 Radical Poetics, Radical Translation (See COM 402) TRA 407 Prose Translation (See FRE 407) TRA 408 Practical Translation (See RUS 408) TRA 450 Global Publishing: Translation, Media, Migration (See COM 450) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University