Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of German Faculty Chair Devin A. Fore Director of Undergraduate Studies Thomas Y. Levin Johannes Wankhammer Director of Graduate Studies Brigid Doherty Nikolaus Wegmann Professor Devin A. Fore Nikolaus Wegmann Associate Professor Brigid Doherty Thomas Y. Levin Barbara N. Nagel Sara S. Poor Assistant Professor Joel B. Lande Johannes Wankhammer University Lecturer Jamie Rankin Senior Lecturer Adam Oberlin Lecturer Sonja Andersen Ina Simova Visiting Professor Anja F. Lemke Juliane Rebentisch Joseph W. Vogl For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study Incoming students with previous experience in German will be placed into the appropriate level of the sequence by means of an online proficiency test administered prior to course registration. Make-up tests will take place during orientation week. Students with some knowledge of German but without SAT Subject or AP test scores must have their proficiency measured by the online placement test administered by the Registrar. Sophomores and upper-level students may take the test as well, but must do so according to the test's availability during Orientation as indicated by the Registrar. Advanced Placement/SAT A student who took the SAT ST German (or German "with listening") or the AP German exam in 2020 or 2021 must take the departmental placement exam. Test scores of SAT ST 760 or AP 5 from years prior to 2020 will satisfy the A.B. language requirement and be eligible for placement in 200- or 300-level courses, as well as participation in the Summer Work Program and the Berlin Consortium. Prerequisites The requirement for admission to the German Department is a satisfactory working knowledge of German demonstrated by the completion of GER 107, an SAT Subject Test score of 760, a 5 on the Advanced Placement test, or successful completion of the Department Proficiency Exam. Students considering majoring in German are encouraged to contact the director of undergraduate studies at any point to discuss a plan of study. Early Concentration Qualified students may begin departmental work in the sophomore year under the following plan: Recommended introductory courses: GER 207, 208, 209, 210, or 211; Independent work beginning in the second sophomore term; Meetings with the director of undergraduate studies for individual discussion of the student's plan of study and independent work. This plan permits students to devote themselves to their major interest before their junior year. They can advance when ready and as swiftly as possible. An early start gives students a wider choice of courses and seminars in their junior and senior years and enables them to start work on the senior thesis before their final year at Princeton. Program of Study The department offers six areas of concentration, or tracks, within the major, each requiring a total of nine departmental courses (GER 300 and eight additional courses as specified below): 1. German Literature This track focuses on the major periods and forms of German literature with emphasis on literary and historical analysis. Students will satisfy the general University requirement of eight departmental courses by taking a minimum of five courses in the department (at least three of which should be 300-level courses) and a maximum of three cognate courses in related humanities departments and other disciplines such as philosophy and religion. 2. German Philosophy and Intellectual History This track concentrates on philosophy, political and cultural theory, or particular intellectual movements and epochs in German-speaking contexts. Students are required to take a minimum of five courses in the German department (at least three of which should be 300-level courses) and a maximum of three relevant cognate courses in history, European cultural studies, or philosophy. 3. Media and Aesthetics Designed for students who wish to focus on art, film, dance, music, sound technology, and/or media theory broadly conceived, this track requires a minimum of five courses in the German department (at least three of which should be 300-level courses), and a maximum of three relevant cognate courses in art and archaeology, film, music, philosophy, European cultural studies, architecture, and the Program in Visual Arts. 4. German Linguistics This track concentrates on the history and structure of the German language. Majors who select this track are required to take the following courses: LIN 201 Introduction to Language and Linguistics or a comparable course in linguistics, GER 505 History of the German Language, and either GER 506 Second Language Acquisition and Pedagogy or GER 316, with the same title. In addition, students will take at least three courses in German literature and culture and two cognate courses pertaining to linguistics. 5. The Study of Two Literatures This plan of study normally consists of five upper-level courses in the German department (at least three of which should be 300-level courses), and three upper-level courses in a second literature. Students who have not completed the language preparation for the second literature may enroll in this track provided that they satisfy that language requirement during the junior year. 6. Joint Program in German Culture and Politics In cooperation with the Department of Politics, students may combine a concentration in German intellectual history with a concentration in German/European politics and/or political theory. In this track, four courses will be taken in the German department (at least two of which should be 300-level courses) and four cognate courses in German/European politics or political theory will be taken in the Department of Politics (at least two of which should be 300-level courses). Recommended departmental courses are GER 207, 208, 211, 306, 307, 309, and 324. Recommended cognates in politics include POL 210, 230, 240, and 385. The senior thesis may focus on any political topic with a substantive German-related component. Upon graduation, a letter will be issued by the German department certifying completion of a program in German cultural studies with a concentration in politics. Language Requirements For areas 1 to 5, at least three, and for area 6, at least two of the departmentals should be courses taught in German. For areas 1 to 5, one of these three may be a course taught in English for which there is an appropriate German-language component. This option is available for all courses taught in the German department, but also for some courses in other departments. Students should consult with the course instructor regarding the German-language component at the beginning of the semester and submit the agreed-upon plan to the director of undergraduate studies for approval by the end of the second week of classes. Independent Work Independent reading, the junior year seminar, the junior year essay, and the senior thesis constitute the student's total independent work, which is spread over the four upper-level terms. These elements can be profitably linked with departmental courses. Students will consult with the director of undergraduate studies under whose guidance they will develop their individual program. During the first term of the junior year, students are required to take the Junior Seminar GER 300, which serves as an intensive workshop of research and writing skills, as an introduction to a wide range of approaches and methods, and as an incubator for the spring term junior paper, an essay of approximately 4,000 words on a subject in German philosophy, art, media, linguistics, literature, or politics. This essay, as well as the senior thesis, may be written in German or English. In late April of the junior year students should discuss plans for their senior theses with the director of undergraduate studies. During senior year students will write a thesis on a subject approved by their thesis adviser. By the end of the fourth week of the first senior term, students will submit to their advisers a tentative outline of the proposed thesis. Further progress reports (as announced by the department) are required. Five weeks before the departmental examination, students must deliver to their advisor and to the director of undergraduate studies a copy of the thesis (signed and in PDF format). The title page must show the student's name and class numerals, the department in which the student is enrolled, the name of the adviser, and the month and year of presentation. First and second readers will return written reports to students in advance of the departmental exam. After the departmental exam and upon approval of the thesis, students must submit one electronic copy of the thesis (PDF format) for the department archive. Students will receive a message from the office of the dean of the college during the spring term concerning the electronic submission of the senior thesis to the library. Senior Departmental Examination The departmental examination will be oral, based on the thesis and the student's course of study. At least one-fourth of the approximately hour-long exam will be conducted in German. Students should come prepared to give a 5-10 minute presentation about the argument of their thesis and its contribution to the state of research in its field. Study and Work Abroad It is strongly recommended that students spend some time in a German-speaking country. This can be done through various programs including the Berlin Consortium for German Studies, the Princeton-in-Munich study abroad program, and the department's Summer Work Program. Berlin Study Abroad Program Through the Berlin Consortium for German Studies, of which Princeton University is a member, Princeton undergraduates are eligible to spend either one semester or an entire academic year studying abroad at the Freie Universität Berlin for full Princeton academic credit. Students will pay normal Princeton tuition, and those on financial aid will continue to receive aid during their study abroad. Departmental students who would like to enroll in this or any other overseas study program may do so, provided they present an acceptable plan of study that includes fulfillment of the departmental requirements for the junior seminar and the independent work and their application is approved by the Faculty Committee on Examinations and Standing. Early consultation with the director of undergraduate studies is strongly encouraged. Applications for the Berlin program are due in early October for the spring term and in early March for the following academic year. For application forms and additional information, contact the director of undergraduate studies or the Office of International Programs at (609) 258-5524. Princeton-in-Munich Study Abroad Programs We offer two programs for study in Munich, Germany: (1) Students enrolled in GER 102, 1025, or 105 may apply to take GER 105G or 107G in Munich; 2) Students enrolled in GER 107 or a 200 or 300 level seminar taught in German, or who have placed out of the language sequence, are eligible to apply to GER 3XXG in Munich. GER 105G and 107G are taught as a special month-long summer course at the Goethe-Institute in collaboration with Princeton instructors and are partially subsidized by the University and the German Department. GER 3XXG, whose topic varies from summer to summer, is taught by a Princeton professor. Successful completion of 107G in Munich satisfies the University's language requirement and qualifies students for upper-level courses in German, the Summer Work Program (potentially even that same summer), and the Berlin Consortium. Successful completion of 3XXG reduces the number of required German language courses by one for those pursuing the major or a certificate. Interested students should consult with the director of undergraduate studies. The Summer Work Program For over 60 years, the German Department’s Summer Work Program(SWP) has opened up academic and professional opportunities for countless Princeton undergraduates. The SWP arranges internships in a wide range of fields: arts and culture, business and finance, STEM, computer science, government, policy, law, and medicine. Students have interned at the Bundestag, UNESCO World Heritage sites, Max Planck Institutes, and major corporations. They work at art galleries and hospitals, conduct research in fields ranging from neuroscience to migration studies, and support refugees. Students also have rewarding experiences in interdisciplinary projects. The SWP is committed to working with each student individually. An integral part of the German department, the program provides detailed guidance on writing German resumes, cover letters, and professional emails. Students are matched with internships based on their language proficiencies, academic and professional aspirations, extracurricular interests, and specific skills. Some of our most popular internships were initially established for a particular student with a unique set of qualifications and goals. Organizing these opportunities is a truly collaborative effort. The SWP works in conjunction with the Princeton Alumni Association of Germany, partners at host organizations, and colleagues at German universities. Thanks to the generosity of our donors, we provide financial support to students whose internships are unpaid. An information session is held early in the fall semester. German majors and students with a high level of German proficiency are more likely to be qualified for certain positions. However, German proficiency is not required and students from all academic fields are encouraged to apply. For the most up-to-date information about the application process, eligibility, and internship offerings, please visit the SWP website. Certificate in Language and Culture The Department of German offers students an opportunity to do sustained work in German language, literature, philosophy, art, and media while majoring in another department, leading to a certificate in German Language and Culture. Certificate students can choose from the broad range of course offerings taught in both English and German. Classes extend from the middle ages to the contemporary moment, introduce diverse disciplinary perspectives including art history and philosophy, and engage with multiple critical paradigms, such as gender and media studies. Through vibrant classroom discussions and close advising relationships, the certificate program engages students who wish to advance their command of the German language and deepen their understanding of German culture. The certificate program is open to undergraduates in all departments. Students are encouraged to consult with the director of undergraduate studies as early as their first or sophomore year to plan a program of study but should not hesitate to reach out to the director of undergraduate studies about joining the certificate program at a later date. Course Requirements: Four courses at the 200 level or higher, at least two of which must be at the 300 level or higher. All courses must be taken for a grade (not PDF). Evidence of substantial upper-level coursework in German. This requirement will be satisfied if three of the four courses taken for the certificate were conducted in German, or if two were taught in German and one was conducted in English with a substantial German-language component. This option is available for all courses taught in the German department as well as courses in other departments cross-listed with German. Students should consult with the course instructor regarding the German-language component at the beginning of the semester and submit the agreed-upon plan to the director of undergraduate studies in German for approval by the end of the second week of classes. Independent Work Requirement: There are three ways to fulfill the Independent Work requirement: A substantial paper (15-20 pages if in English, 10-15 pages if in German; may be a revised version of a paper written for one of the four required courses) A chapter from the senior thesis principally devoted to a German-related topic An additional 300-level class taught in German. If you are interested in completing the certificate, you are encouraged to contact the director of undergraduate studies to discuss your plan of study. . Qualified students can sign up for the certificate on the German department website at german.princeton.edu/department/forms/certificate-program-application. Preparation for Graduate Study Departmental students who intend to pursue graduate studies in German are reminded that most graduate schools require a reading knowledge of a second modern language, and, possibly, Latin. Students are therefore advised to prepare themselves as undergraduates to meet these requirements. Additional Information The Language Program The normal program for beginners consists of GER 101, 102, 105, and 107. Students with a grade of A in 101 may apply for a special intensive second-term course, 102-5, that combines GER 102 and 105. It is possible to start the study of German at Princeton and fulfill the entire language requirement in one calendar year through the Munich Study Abroad Program (see above): 101 (Fall term), 102-5 (Spring term), 107G (summer study immediately following 102-5). German 105G is also offered through the Munich program. Successful completion of 107, 107G, or immediate assignment to a higher-level course satisfies the degree requirement and qualifies the student for all advanced courses, for departmental concentration, and for participation in the Berlin Consortium and the Summer Work Abroad program. All questions concerning placement, course changes, failures, summer study, or other matters related to any of the department's undergraduate courses should be referred to the director of undergraduate studies. Areas of Study The department offers courses in: German language and culture: 101, 102, 1025, 105, 105G, 107, 107G, 207, 208; German literature: 209, 301, 303, 305, 321, 323, 324, 325, 340, 362; German philosophy and intellectual history: 210, 302, 306, 307, 309, 332; Media and aesthetics (lectures/seminars are in English unless otherwise noted): 211, 308, 337, 370, 371, 373; Germanic and European literatures in translation: 320; Germanic linguistics: for relevant graduate courses open to undergraduates by permission, consult the German department's listing online. Courses GER 101 Beginner's German I Fall This course lays the foundation for functional acquisition of German, with attention to interpretation (listening/reading), production (speaking/writing) and cultural understanding. Class time is devoted to interactive language tasks that foster comprehension, vocabulary acquisition and fluency. Five hours per week. Instructed by: J. Rankin GER 102 Beginner's German II Fall/Spring Continuation of 101, with added emphasis on reading, communicative writing strategies, listening comprehension, vocabulary acquisition, and cultural analysis through film. Five hours per week. Instructed by: Staff GER 1025 Intensive Intermediate German Spring Intensive training in German, building on 101 and covering the acquisitional goals of 102 and 105: communicative proficiency, mastery of discourse skills and reading strategies to interpret and discuss contemporary German short stories, film and drama. Successful completion of the course (B- or above) leads to automatic eligibility for GER 107G in the Princeton-in-Munich program. Limited to students with a grade of A/A- in 101. Nine hours per week. Instructed by: A. Oberlin GER 103 Beginner's German in Review Not offered this year The course provides students who have some background in German a brief review of material covered in 101, and then works on speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills at the level of 102. Five hours. Prerequisite: scores from placement/proficiency test administered during fall orientation and consultation with instructor. Instructed by: Staff GER 105 Intermediate German Fall The course aims to solidify previously acquired German, while expanding the range of usable vocabulary and syntax. Emphasis in class on task-based approaches to grammar, writing, listening comprehension and cultural understanding, using texts and film. Prerequisite: SAT Subject Test score of 570 and demonstrated oral competence, or successful completion of 102. To be followed by 107 to satisfy the A.B. language requirement. Four hours per week. Instructed by: A. Oberlin GER 107 Advanced German Fall/Spring Further acquisition of proficiency in speaking, listening, reading, and writing using online media, film, and texts as a basis for interaction and analysis. The fall course provides extensive review of basic structures and vocabulary for incoming students with high school German instruction; the spring course dovetails with 105 in terms of cultural and grammatical topics. Prerequisite: SAT Subject Test score of 650 and demonstrated oral competence, or successful completion of 105. Satisfies the A.B. language requirement. Three hours per week. Instructed by: Staff GER 207 Studies in German Language and Style: Society, Politics, and Culture in Germany, 1890-1945 Fall HA Discussions of exemplary texts from modern German society and culture, including essays, speeches, autobiographies, works of literature, art, and film. The course offers an introduction to important issues in modern Germany: the Kaiserreich to the end of monarchy, Berlin as a modern metropolis, World War I, the democratic experiment of the Weimar Republic, and the rise and structures of National Socialism. Intensive practice in spoken and written German with emphasis on vocabulary acquisition and complex syntactical forms. Two 90-minute seminars. Prerequisite:107 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: N. Wegmann GER 208 Studies in German Language and Style: Contemporary Society, Politics, and Culture Spring HA Continuation of 207 (which is not, however, a prerequisite). Discussions of social, political, and cultural aspects of contemporary Germany. Basis of discussions are essays, literary texts, and films. Individual assignments to develop oral and written expression. Particularly recommended to students contemplating study or work in Germany. Two 90-minute seminars. Prerequisite: 107 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff GER 209 Introduction to German Literature after 1700 Fall LA The main periods of German literature from Lessing to the present studied through texts chosen to help the student acquire fluency in reading German and in the principles of literary interpretation. Two classes. Instructed by: J. Lande GER 210 Introduction to German Philosophy Spring EC Covers German intellectual history from the Enlightenment to the present by focusing on the theoretical texts of its major authors (Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Weber, Heidegger, Arendt, Habermas). In addition to addressing the core discipline of philosophy, this course focuses on aesthetics, social, and political thought as well. All readings in English. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff GER 211 Introduction to Media Theory Spring EC Traces the development of critical reflection on media through careful readings of a wide range of media theoretical texts from the late 19th to the early 21st century. Topics range from the birth of single-point perspective to photography, from gramophones to radio, from pre-cinematic optical devices to film and television, and from telephony and typewriters to cyberspace. Covers the relationship between representation and technology, the historicity of perception, the interplay of aesthetics, techniques, and politics, and transformations of reigning notions of imagination, literacy, communication, reality, and truth. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: D. Fore, T. Levin GER 301 Topics in German Drama and Theater (also HUM 301 ) Fall/Spring LA Exploration of specific problems in the history of German theater, drama, and dramatic theory. Topics may range from the baroque drama to the importance of Brechtian theater for modernism, and from the dramatic representation of political conflicts to contemporary theater and performance studies. Instructed by: Staff GER 303 Topics in Prose Fiction Fall/Spring LA Critical investigations of particular problems in the development of German literary prose. Topics may include love as a mode of literary self-expression, the role of utopia in the rise of the modern novel, the history of the German novella, detective fiction, and the modern short story and experimental prose. Prerequisite: 107. Instructed by: Staff GER 305 Topics in German Poetry Not offered this year LA Studies of a particular question related to the development of German-language poetry and poetics. Topics may range from readings of major German poets (Goethe, Hölderlin, George, Rilke, Benn, Celan) to the paradigmatic status of the genre for 20th-century conceptions of the avant-garde. Prerequisite: 107. Instructed by: Staff GER 306 German Intellectual History Fall/Spring EC A study of major German philosophers and religious and social thinkers from the Reformation to the present. Selected works of Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Freud, Heidegger, or German-Jewish thinkers will be read together with contemporary interpretations. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: Staff GER 307 Topics in German Culture and Society (also ECS 307 ) Fall/Spring LA Exploration of key moments in German culture in light of its history and institutions. Topics may range from Marxist aesthetics to theories of fascism to German women writers. Readings and discussion in German. Instructed by: Staff GER 308 Topics in German Film History and Theory Fall/Spring EC What is film? Is it a language? Can one speak of cinematic literacy? Does film transform perception? Is there filmic thinking? This seminar on the theory and poetics of cinema will examine the varieties of ways -- semiotic, psychoanalytic, narratological - that filmmakers, philosophers and critics have analyzed film form, the cinematic experience, the construction of cinematic subjectivity, questions of aesthetic politics and notions of medium specificity. Instructed by: Staff GER 309 Literature, Philosophy, and Politics in the Weimar Republic Not offered this year LA An interdisciplinary examination of continuity and change in the culture and the cultural politics of Germany between 1919 and 1933. Topics include expressionism in the visual arts and literature; Berlin Dada; the Conservative Revolution; abstract versus representational art (Thomas Mann, Neue Sachlichkeit); the Bauhaus and mass housing; montage in film and literature (Sergei Eisenstein, Walter Benjamin); the political theater (Bertolt Brecht, Erwin Piscator), and the optics of the modern metropolis (Walter Ruttmann, Alfred Döblin). Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: Staff GER 314 Topics in the History and Theory of the Media (also CHV 320 / COM 448 ) Spring EM What defines life? And where do we locate the boundary between its proper and improper instances, between the natural and the monstrous? First emerging in the early 19th century, the prospects of artificial life continue to provoke both exhilaration and anxiety today. By examining works of philosophy, literature and film over a historical period ranging from early Romanticism to contemporary nanoculture, this seminar explores humanity's desire to become like the gods, fashioning species, companions, and slaves at will, even as these creations menace us through their intractability and threaten to take on an uncanny life of their own. Instructed by: Staff GER 320 Masterworks of European Literature: The Romantic Quest (also COM 320 ) Not offered this year LA Works central to the tradition of modern European literature, including Goethe's Faust, Byron's Don Juan, Flaubert's Sentimental Education, Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil, and Mann's Doctor Faustus. Each work treats the quest for greatness; each will be examined as to its form and place in the history of ideas. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: Staff GER 321 Topics in German Medieval Literature (also GSS 321 / MED 321 ) Spring LA Exploration of German medieval literature. Topics may include medieval German Arthurian literature and the relationship between gender and power in the medieval epics. Instructed by: S. Poor GER 323 Fairy Tales: The Brothers Grimm and Beyond Fall LA What do fairy tales do? More than children's entertainment, they instruct, amuse, warn, initiate, and enlighten. Throughout history, they have functioned to humanize and conquer the bestial and barbaric forces that terrorize us. They have also disguised social anxieties about gender and sex. The history and social function of fairy tales will be explored in the context of Germany in the 18th-20th centuries. Texts include selections from the Grimms' Marchen, as well as from the literature of the Romantic, Weimar, and postwar periods. Prerequisite: 107. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: S. Poor GER 324 Topics in Germanic Literatures Fall/Spring LA Critical investigation of German language literature from 800 to present. Topics may include medieval German Arthurian literature, the Austrian literary avant-garde, love stories, as well as focused studies of selected authors. Two 90-minute Seminars. Instructed by: Staff GER 325 Nietzsche and Modern European Literature Not offered this year LA The philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche as an important progenitor of the European modernist culture that arose in the period of urban capitalist modernity, roughly 1870-1930. Particular emphasis will be placed on a series of textual encounters between Nietzsche and such authors as Gide, Mann, Lawrence, Rilke, Yeats, Musil, and Malraux; their readings and rewritings of Nietzsche lent decisive impulses to the formal and thematic concerns of modernism. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: M. Jennings GER 332 The Cultural Theory of the Frankfurt School Not offered this year EC An examination of the work of the Frankfurt School of critical social theory on questions of modern culture. The course will focus on the textual debates among Theodor Adorno, Walter Benjamin, Max Horkheimer, and Siegfried Kracauer on the complex relationship of aesthetics and politics. These often polemical socio-philosophical texts attempt to map a contemporary cultural landscape reconfigured by the "culture industry," transformations in perception, the emergence of the mass, and new technologies of reproduction such as radio, cinema, and television. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff GER 337 Court, Cloister, and City: Art and Architecture in Central and Eastern Europe (See ART 337) GER 340 German Literature in the Age of Revolution Not offered this year LA The major works of the classical period in German literature. Texts by Goethe, Schiller, Hölderlin, and Kleist in relation to European historical, social, and philosophical change. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: N. Wegmann GER 349 Texts and Images of the Holocaust (See COM 349) GER 362 Contemporary German Literature Not offered this year LA An introduction to the poetry, drama, and prose of postwar Germany in the East and West. Emphasis on the political and social context of the major literary works from the '50s to the present. Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: Staff GER 370 Weimar Germany: Painting, Photography, Film (also ART 331 / ECS 370 ) Not offered this year LA The visual arts in Germany during the Weimar Republic (1918-1933). Works of art, cinema, and literature in historical context. Topics include: modernism and modernity; Expressionism, Dada, New Objectivity in painting, photography, cinema, and literature; historical conditions of bodily experience and visual perception; emergence of new artistic and technological media; expansion of mass culture; place of politics in art; experience and representation of metropolitan life; changes in the conceptualization and representation of individuality, collectivity, embodiment, race, class, gender, sexuality. Two 90-minute seminars, one film screening. Instructed by: B. Doherty GER 371 Art in Germany Since 1960 (also ART 391 ) Not offered this year LA The production and reception of art in the Federal Republic of Germany from c. 1960 to now, situating episodes in the history of painting, sculpture, and photography in relation to developments in literature and cinema. Topics include the problem of coming to terms with the past (Vergangenheitsbewältigung); the West German economic miracle (Wirtschaftswunder) and the functions and meanings of art in consumer society; violence, politics, and representation; abstraction and figuration in painting, sculpture, and photography; history, memory, and artistic tradition; art as a vehicle of socio-political critique. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: B. Doherty GER 373 Modernist Photography and Literature (also ART 377 ) Not offered this year LA Exemplary encounters between photography and literature in the 20th century. After providing students with a basis in the theory of photography, the course focuses on intersections between literary and photographic forms, producers, and movements. Topics will include modernism in New York (Williams, Strand, and Sheeler) and Mexico City (Lawrence, Bravo, Weston, Modotti), the New Photography and the photo essay in Germany (Benjamin, Moholy-Nagy, Renger-Patzsch, Sander), social criticism (Evans and Agee), surrealism (Breton), and the American road (Kerouac and Frank). Two 90-minute seminars. Instructed by: Staff Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University