Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Sustainable Energy Faculty Director Yiguang Ju Executive Committee Craig B. Arnold, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng José L. Avalos, Chemical and Biological Eng Andrew B. Bocarsly, Chemistry Minjie Chen, Electrical & Comp Engineering Alexander Glaser, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Robert J. Goldston, Astrophysical Sciences Kelsey B. Hatzell, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Yiguang Ju, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Simon A. Levin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Luigi Martinelli, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Forrest M. Meggers, Architecture Michael E. Mueller, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Michael Oppenheimer, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Stephen W. Pacala, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Catherine A. Peters, Civil and Environmental Eng Z. Jason Ren, Civil and Environmental Eng Michele L. Sarazen, Chemical and Biological Eng Daniel M. Sigman, Geosciences Bess Ward, Geosciences Elke U. Weber, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Claire E. White, Civil and Environmental Eng Gerard Wysocki, Electrical & Comp Engineering For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Sustainable Energy is designed for Princeton undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing careers or graduate education in the area of sustainable energy science and technology to achieve: An understanding of current energy resources, carriers, end users, technologies, and their impact on climate and environment. The ability to quantitatively analyze, design, and develop innovative energy systems and technologies that support sustainable economic growth, energy security, biological diversity, and environmental harmony for life on Earth. An understanding of Earth, global climate, and environmental change from the perspective of engineering, technology, economics, and policy. The future of societies, the global economy, and the global environment depend on collaborative research into renewable energy, alternative fuels, advanced energy conversion and storage systems, technology transfer to developing countries, and prudent judgment on policies to support sustainable energy technology. Innovations and inventions require multidisciplinary approaches and entrepreneurship, as well as grounding in theory and practice, in topics that are not covered by a single department. This certificate program offers an integrated set of core and elective courses, introducing students to fundamental concepts, providing depth in specific fields of interest, gaining laboratory and site visit experiences, and setting the stage for further work in the field. Students are encouraged to expand their experience through summer internships with companies, government agencies, national and university laboratories, and Princeton faculty. Admission to the Program The program is open to sophomores, juniors, and seniors who have a satisfactory background in engineering and science. Normally, students should have successfully completed MAT 103, MAT 104, PHY 103, and PHY 104 (or their equivalents, including AP equivalents). Students who have slightly different preparation should consult with the program director to discuss eligibility. Students planning to earn the program certificate should complete the online student profile at the program website as early as possible, but no later than the mid-point of the fall term of their junior year. Application for admission is made to the program committee. Upon acceptance to the program, the program director will recommend a program adviser to the student to assist in planning a program of study, research, and off-campus internship. Program of Study A concentrator in this program must satisfy both program and departmental requirements. The program for each student is worked out by the student and his or her program adviser. The program requirements are as follows: 1. All students must take six courses, including two core courses and four elective courses. The two core courses must be taken by choosing one from the Introduction to Energy Technology category (A1) and the other one from the Introduction to Climate Change and Geo-environmental Science category (A2), respectively. Depending on the student's interest and background, the four elective courses should be taken from categories B1 and B2, with at least one from a different category (for example: three courses from B1 and one course from B2, or vice versa, or two from each category). In case a listed course is not offered, students should consult the program director for an alternative course. However, students are encouraged to plan ahead as certain courses are offered only in the spring or fall semester. To qualify for the certificate, a minimum grade average of B- in the six program courses, and an independent work project or senior thesis, is required. In some cases, an elective course that fulfills a certificate program requirement can also meet a regular departmental requirement. If a student is enrolled in more than one certificate program, there may be no more than three overlapping courses between the sustainable energy program and any other program. Core Courses (one from each category -- A1 and A2): Consult the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment (ACEE) website for the current list of approved courses. A1. Introduction to Energy Technology A2. Introduction to Climate Change and Geo-environmental Science Elective Courses (four courses with at least one from a different subject area -- B1 and B2): Consult the ACEE website for the current list of approved courses. B1. Energy Science and Technology (Fossil energy, non-fossil and renewable energy, energy conversion and storage systems and technologies) B2. Environmental Science and Geoscience (Earth science, climate, environment, ecosystems, policy and economic assessments of carbon capture and storage technology) 2. A senior independent work project or thesis whose topic is relevant to the program and acceptable to the program committee must be completed. The project or thesis title and abstract need to be presented to and approved by the program director. In addition, a minimum grade of B- for the project or thesis is required to qualify for the certificate. Students are required to present their project/thesis to faculty and program students at an annual symposium held in the spring. 3. Close collaboration with faculty is expected. Program students are expected to demonstrate strong academic performance. Program courses may not be taken on a pass/D/fail basis unless that is the only grading alternative for the course. 4. For the program enrollment, students must fill out the student profile form on the program website. It is especially important to assure that requirements for the certificate will be met by the end of the senior year. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all program requirements will receive a certificate of proficiency in sustainable energy upon graduation. Additional Information Seminars on Energy and the Environment Seminars on energy and environment are announced to all students registered in this program. Advanced students are encouraged to attend regularly scheduled departmental and High Meadows Environmental Institute and Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment seminars to further enrich their understanding of the field. Undergraduate Independent Research Projects Undergraduate projects usually are undertaken for independent work or senior thesis credit, and opportunities exist for summer and work-study projects. These projects typically last for one or two academic terms, although they may extend over greater periods of time. Students work closely with faculty and staff members in academic departments and University-associated laboratories such as the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL), and they have access to sophisticated computers and experimental facilities while conducting their independent research. Undergraduate Off-Campus Experiences and Internships Students are encouraged to expand their experience through site visits and to summer internships with companies, government agencies, national and university laboratories (e.g., PPPL), and Princeton faculty. The energy-technology core course provides several on-campus site visit experiences to power generation stations, a fusion laboratory, and energy research labs on campus. Please note: due to the ongoing pandemic, for AY21-22 certain restrictions on travel remain in place (https://covid.princeton.edu/travel#Permissible-Travel-Guidelines) and students should refer to these before considering any travel. In addition, courses may not include site visits, depending upon current federal, state, and University policies. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University