Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Cognitive Science Faculty Director Casey Lew-Williams (acting) (spring) Tania Lombrozo Executive Committee Adele E. Goldberg, Psychology Mark Johnston, Philosophy Casey Lew-Williams, Psychology Tania Lombrozo, Psychology Elizabeth H. Margulis, Music Gideon A. Rosen, Philosophy Eldar Shafir, Psychology Associated Faculty Sanjeev Arora, Computer Science Lara M. Buchak, Philosophy Danqi Chen, Computer Science Jonathan D. Cohen, Psychology Alin I. Coman, Psychology Nathaniel D. Daw, Princeton Neuroscience Inst Adam N. Elga, Philosophy Elizabeth Gould, Psychology Tom Griffiths, Psychology Elizabeth Harman, Philosophy Uri Hasson, Psychology Sanjeev R. Kulkarni, Dean of the Faculty Andrés Monroy-Hernández, Computer Science Karthik Narasimhan, Computer Science Yael Niv, Psychology Kristina R. Olson, Psychology Elizabeth L. Paluck, Psychology Carolyn M. Rouse, Anthropology Olga Russakovsky, Computer Science Stacey A. Sinclair, Psychology Una Stojnic, Philosophy Diana I. Tamir, Psychology Samuel S. Wang, Princeton Neuroscience Inst Sits with Committee Christiane D. Fellbaum Victoria McGeer Lecturer Corey J. Cusimano For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary study of how the mind works, drawing on research from psychology, philosophy, linguistics, neuroscience, and computer science. The interdisciplinary character of cognitive science is reflected in its reliance on many different levels of analysis of mental phenomena and its employment of a variety of methodologies appropriate to each level. The goal of cognitive science is to integrate the insights from multiple disciplines and modes of research into a unified scientific account of the mind and its place in nature. Research in cognitive science includes, but is not limited to, work on psychophysics, perception, linguistics and language processing, philosophy of mind and language, cognitive development, memory, reasoning, emotion, moral and social cognition, and judgment and decision making. One ambition of cognitive science is to understand just how mental abilities and processes are realized in the brain, and how such neural realizations can ground the conscious, deliberate activity of thought and decision. Another is to map out just how the human mind develops from childhood on, and thereby articulate the deep mechanisms of learning and cognitive development. A third ambition is to investigate just how far mental processes can be duplicated in complex computational structures that could be instantiated in machines. Admission to the Program The program is open to undergraduates concentrating in any department. Students should meet with the director or program manager, usually during sophomore year, to apply to the program and plan a course of study. Applicants will be accepted based on interest and a coherent, tentative academic plan, including independent study. Program of Study Students are required to take five courses in cognitive science, which in combination satisfy the following requirements: Three courses at the 300-level or higher; Courses taken in at least three different academic units (please note that this restriction applies only to a course's primary course listing, not to additional cross-listings); Typically no more than one course with a primary course listing from the student's department of concentration, unless permission is obtained from the director; At least one course that is not counted towards the student's departmental concentration; At most, one course may be taken P/D/F. Students are also required to complete a thesis or a semester of junior independent work that incorporates substantial elements of cognitive science. The work may be used to satisfy both the requirements of the program and the student's department of concentration. Students who are unable to incorporate cognitive science into their departmental independent work should consult the director or program manager to discuss alternative means of satisfying this requirement. The Program in Cognitive Science sponsors a lunchtime talk series with speakers from the Princeton cognitive science community, as well as from outside Princeton. Students are strongly encouraged to attend these talks. If scheduling permits, certificate students who are completing independent work in cognitive science may volunteer to give a talk themselves, in consultation with the director. Cognitive Science and Related Courses These courses will count towards the program requirements. Other cognitive science related courses, including graduate courses, may be counted toward certificate completion with the approval of the director. Certificate of Proficiency A student who fulfills the requirements of the program with satisfactory standing receives a certificate of proficiency in cognitive science upon graduation. Courses CGS 205 Introduction to Language and Linguistics (See LIN 201) CGS 207 Introduction to Philosophy of Cognitive Science (See PHI 207) CGS 254 Developmental Psychology (See PSY 254) CGS 255 Cognitive Psychology (See PSY 255) CGS 304 Social Cognition: The Psychology of Interactive Minds (See PSY 304) CGS 310 The Philosophy and Science of Consciousness (also PHI 328 ) Fall EC This course will introduce students to foundational philosophical issues concerning consciousness and to integrate these with empirical approaches. The course will begin with key philosophical concepts and theories (e.g. functionalism, qualia, access versus phenomenal consciousness). It will then turn to key empirical paradigms and models (e.g. change blindness, blindsight, partial report methods and signal detection theory). Throughout the aim will be to consider how philosophical assumptions inform the interpretations of empirical work on consciousness, and how empirical work might illuminate philosophical theorizing. Instructed by: Staff CGS 312 Cognitive Science of Metaethics (also CHV 317 / PHI 349 ) Spring EC Are ethical and other normative judgments (like those of aesthetics) objective or in some sense relative? Can such judgments be true or false, or do they express a different type of mental state altogether (like "Ouch!")? Philosophers and cognitive scientists have begun using empirical methods to address these types of questions in metaethics. This course provides an introduction to these questions and surveys the recent experimental work. In the first part of the course, we'll discuss moral realism vs. anti-realism. In the second part, we'll look at the nature of normative disagreement and its role in specific metaethical theories. Instructed by: Staff CGS 315 Philosophy of Mind (See PHI 315) CGS 316 Philosophy and Psychopathology (also PHI 348 ) Fall EC This course explores the nature of mental disorder and its meaning for sufferers and society. The first part of the course introduces students to rival accounts of the distinction between pathological and normal functioning, focusing on depression and delusions. The second part turns to anorexia, addiction, and the personality disorders, to consider the impact of mental disorder on individuals and its relevance to personal relationships, clinical treatment, law and society. The course draws on multiple sources, including philosophy, cognitive science, clinical practice, medical ethics, case studies and personal narratives. Instructed by: Staff CGS 322 Philosophy of the Cognitive Sciences (See PHI 322) CGS 352 Philosophy of Bias: Psychology, Epistemology, and Ethics of Stereotypes (See PHI 352) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University