Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Molecular Biology Faculty Chair Bonnie L. Bassler Associate Chair Jean E. Schwarzbauer Director of Undergraduate Studies Elizabeth R. Gavis Director of Graduate Studies Ileana M. Cristea Professor Bonnie L. Bassler Rebecca D. Burdine Ileana M. Cristea Elizabeth R. Gavis Zemer Gitai Frederick M. Hughson Yibin Kang Michael S. Levine Coleen T. Murphy Paul D. Schedl Jean E. Schwarzbauer Thomas E. Shenk Stanislav Y. Shvartsman Thomas J. Silhavy Jeffry B. Stock Eric F. Wieschaus Ned S. Wingreen Nieng Yan Associate Professor Mohamed S. Abou Donia Danelle Devenport Martin C. Jonikas Alexei V. Korennykh Sabine Petry Alexander Ploss Jared E. Toettcher Assistant Professor Brittany Adamson John F. Brooks Michelle M. Chan John Jimah Ricardo Mallarino Cameron A. Myhrvold Eszter Posfai Martin Helmut Wühr AJ te Velthuis Associated Faculty José L. Avalos, Chemical and Biological Eng Clifford P. Brangwynne, Chemical and Biological Eng Mark P. Brynildsen, Chemical and Biological Eng Daniel J. Cohen, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Thomas Gregor, Physics Ralph E. Kleiner, Chemistry A. James Link, Chemical and Biological Eng Lindy McBride, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Tom Muir, Chemistry Celeste M. Nelson, Chemical and Biological Eng Joshua D. Rabinowitz, Chemistry Mohammad R. Seyedsayamdost, Chemistry Joshua W. Shaevitz, Physics Stanislav Y. Shvartsman, Chemical and Biological Eng Mona Singh, Computer Science Howard A. Stone, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng John D. Storey, Integrative Genomics Olga G. Troyanskaya, Computer Science Samuel S. Wang, Princeton Neuroscience Inst Bridgett M. vonHoldt, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Professor Emeritus (teaching) Sarah J. Flint Professor of the Practice Daniel A. Notterman University Lecturer Heather A. Thieringer Lecturer Anthar S. Darwish Gary S. Laevsky Laurel Lorenz Karin R. McDonald Irina Mikheyeva-Bridges Jodi Schottenfeld-Roames Emilee E. Shine Isabelle R. Taylor For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study At Princeton, courses in the biological sciences are offered in two departments. Students with interests in molecular, cellular, and developmental processes should enroll in the Department of Molecular Biology. Those with an evolutionary orientation and interest in organismal, population, and community processes should enroll in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. Students considering a concentration in molecular biology are encouraged to attend a departmental sophomore open house that is held in the spring term to introduce them to the departmental requirements, courses, faculty, and research topics. Prerequisites To enter the Department of Molecular Biology, students must have completed MOL 214 with a grade of C or better. CHM 201/207 and 202, or one unit of chemistry AP credit and CHM 202 or 215, or two units of chemistry AP credit, are also required to enter the department. An alternate path into the department is through the integrated science curriculum (see below). Program of Study General requirements The following courses are required: Organic Chemistry CHM 301 and 302/304, or CHM 337. Courses taken at other institutions can be used toward fulfillment of the chemistry requirements with prior approval from the Department of Chemistry. The organic chemistry requirement must be completed before the beginning of the junior year. Quantitative Students satisfy the quantitative requirement by taking one course in statistics (SML 201, ORF 245, or MOL 290) and one course in either computer science (COS 126 or above) or math (MAT 103, 104, 175, 192, or any 200-level MAT course). SML 201 and COS 126 are the recommended choices for most students. AP credit cannot be used toward the fulfillment of the quantitative requirement. Courses taken at other institutions can be substituted for the second required course (but not for the statistics course), if approved by the corresponding department. Physics Physics 108 (strongly recommended), or PHY 103 & 104, or PHY 101 & 102. PHY 108 is a one-semester, biologically oriented alternative to the traditional full-year sequences. Pre-medical students needing two semesters of physics can combine PHY 101 or 103 with PHY 108. Neither AP credit nor courses taken at other institutions can be used toward the fulfillment of the physics requirement. Departmental core courses The following core courses are required: MOL 342, MOL 345, MOL 348, and MOL 320/350. Except under very special circumstances, these courses must be taken before senior year. MOL 350 is offered in the fall to junior concentrators and is the conventional path for the major. MOL 320 has limited enrollment and is offered in the spring to sophomores who intend to concentrate in MOL and plan to study abroad, or have taken/are concurrently taking MOL 348 and want an early introduction to research methods and laboratory experience. MOL 320 and MOL 350 are considered equivalent courses and only one can be taken. All four departmental core courses count toward the eight required departmentals. No substitutions are allowed except in the case of study abroad which, if it entails intensive research and with advanced permission, can substitute for MOL 350. Other departmentals All students must take a total of at least eight departmentals. In addition to the four departmental core courses, students must take at least one 300, 400, or 500-level course with MOL as the primary listing. The remaining three departmentals can be chosen from among all 300-or-higher-level MOL, MOL-crosslisted, or other approved courses (see list on department website). Note that CHM 301, CHM 302/304, and CHM 337 qualify as departmentals. Only courses taken at Princeton count as departmentals; there are no exceptions to this rule. Any course that is a prerequisite, requirement, or departmental must be taken for a letter grade (no P/D/F). The sole exception is that, at the point of declaring the MOL concentration, students may appeal to 'uncover' a single P grade in order to meet a prerequisite or requirement for entry. See the Office of the Dean of the College's policy on appealing to rescind a P grade. Independent Work Junior Independent Work In the fall semester of the junior year students participate in small group tutorials led by postdocs in which they read papers from the original literature and prepare two short papers on assigned topics. In the spring semester, students carry out independent work with a faculty adviser with whom they will eventually do their senior thesis research, culminating in a junior paper in the form of a grant proposal. Senior Independent Work During the senior year each student, with the guidance of a faculty adviser, undertakes a major research effort. This research project can be a laboratory or non-laboratory-based study that will be written and presented as a senior thesis. Senior Departmental Examination Students are required to present their work to two faculty thesis readers during an oral exam at which the adviser is not present. The exam usually takes about 30 minutes and students should be prepared to describe the background of the thesis, defend its contents, and propose future directions. Study Abroad Juniors who wish to study abroad must complete at least one departmental core course beforehand. Specifically, molecular biology concentrators who wish to study abroad must complete the following courses by the end of the sophomore year: MOL 214 (or ISC 231-234), CHM 302/304, and at least one of the four MOL core courses (MOL 342, MOL 345, MOL 348, MOL 350). While abroad, students need to complete the equivalent of the fall semester junior paper. Programs that entail intensive laboratory research can, with advance permission, substitute for MOL 350. None of the other core courses (MOL 342, MOL 345, MOL 348) can be completed abroad, nor can any concentrator graduate wtih fewer than eight approved departmentals taken at Princeton. The Office of International Programs has a detailed list of study abroad options listed on their website. Interested students should, at their earliest opportunity, discuss their plans with the departmental study abroad adviser, Fred Hughson. Integrated Science Sequence An alternative path into the department is through the integrated science curriculum. ISC 231-234 (a full-year, double-credit course) can be taken in the first year and substitutes for MOL 214, CHM 201 and 202, COS 126, and PHY 103 and 104. Students cannot receive credit for both an ISC course and its alternative. For full course descriptions and more information, see the integrated science website. Approved Courses for Departmental Credit See the departmental website for an up-to-date list of approved departmentals. Other courses may be approved upon consideration by the departmental undergraduate committee. Program in Biophysics The biophysics certificate program is designed for students with strong interests in molecular biology and physics who wish to combine these two subjects in their junior and senior independent work. The program offers a combination of courses and interdisciplinary research that meet the requirements of the physics or molecular biology departments, and entry requirements of graduate schools in both physics and molecular biology. Courses are chosen with the help of advisers in the Departments of Physics and Molecular Biology. Students are admitted to the program once they have chosen their field of concentration and consulted with the program director, who will assign them an adviser. Program in Global Health and Health Policy The global health and health policy certificate program is an interdepartmental program in which undergraduates can study the determinants, consequences, and patterns of disease across societies; the role of medical technologies and interventions in health improvements; and the economic, political, and social factors that shape domestic and global public health. In addition to the core departmental courses, molecular biology concentrators should take GHP 350 and GHP 351 by the end of junior year. Most upper-level MOL courses fulfill the requirements for the global health and health policy certificate. Program in Neuroscience The neuroscience certificate program is designed for undergraduates with strong interests in neuroscience who wish to pursue an interdisciplinary study of the brain in their senior independent work. The program encourages the serious study of molecular, cellular, developmental, and systems neuroscience as it interfaces with cognitive and behavioral research. The program offers a combination of courses and interdisciplinary research that meets the requirements of the molecular biology and psychology departments. Students in the neuroscience certificate program will be prepared to meet the entry requirements of graduate schools in neuroscience, as well as molecular biology or psychology. Program in Quantitative and Computational Biology The quantitative and computational biology certificate program is designed for students with a strong interest in multidisciplinary and systems-level approaches to understanding molecular, cellular, and organismal behavior. The curriculum introduces the students to experimental and analytic techniques for acquisition of large-scale quantitative observations, and the interpretation of such data in the context of appropriate models. Strong emphasis is placed on using global genome-wide measurements to understand physiological and evolutionary processes. The required courses provide a strong background in modern methodologies in data analysis, interpretation, and modeling. Courses MOL 101 From DNA to Human Complexity (also STC 101 ) Spring SEL This lecture and laboratory course will acquaint non-biology majors with the theory and practice of modern molecular biology, focusing on topics of current interest to society. The course will cover basic molecular biology topics such as information storage and readout by DNA, RNA, and proteins. The course will address how recent scientific advances influence issues relevant to humanity including stem cells and CRISPR; the human microbiome and bacterial pathogens; and how the human genome can be used to understand the evolution of modern humans. Two 90-minute lectures, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: B. Bassler, E. Wieschaus, R. Mallarino MOL 110 Neuroscience and Everyday Life (See NEU 101) MOL 214 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology (also EEB 214 / CBE 214 ) Fall/Spring SEL Important concepts and elements of molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and cell biology, are examined in an experimental context. This course fulfills the requirement for students majoring in the biological sciences and satisfies the biology requirement for entrance into medical school. Two 90-minute lectures, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff MOL 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 231) MOL 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I (See ISC 232) MOL 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 233) MOL 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II (See ISC 234) MOL 320 Experimental Molecular Biology Spring MOL320 is a spring semester, sophomore-level alternative to MOL350. Individuals who are interested in an early research experience that substitutes for MOL350-Laboratory in Molecular Biology can enroll in this course. The purpose of MOL320 is to prepare you to be a contributing member of a research lab and to foster creative, critical thinking and effective communication skills. While completing original research, you will employ techniques used by cell and molecular biologists and developmental geneticists. You will practice extracting pertinent information from scientific literature and will generate a final research report on your work. Instructed by: J. Schottenfeld-Roames MOL 327 Immune Systems: From Molecules to Populations (See EEB 327) MOL 340 Molecular and Cellular Immunology Spring SEN A broad survey of the field of immunology and the mammalian immune system. The cellular and molecular basis of innate and acquired immunity will be discussed in detail. The course will provide frequent exemplars drawn from human biology in health and disease. Prerequisite: MOL214. Instructed by: A. Ploss MOL 342 Genetics Spring SEN Basic principles of genetics illustrated with examples from prokaryote and eukaryote organisms. Classical genetic techniques as well as molecular and genomic approaches will be discussed. The evolving concept of the gene, of genetic interactions and gene networks, as well as chromosome mechanics will be the focus of the course. Selected topics will include gene regulation, cancer genetics, the human biome, imprinting, and stem cells. Two 90-minute lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: MOL 214 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: M. Abou Donia, M. Levine MOL 345 Biochemistry (also CHM 345 ) Fall/Spring SEN Fundamental concepts of biomolecular structure and function will be discussed, with an emphasis on principles of thermodynamics, binding and catalysis. A major portion of the course will focus on metabolism and its logic and regulation. Prerequisites: MOL 214 and either CHM 302, 304, 304B, or 337. Instructed by: Staff MOL 348 Cell and Developmental Biology Spring SEN The course will investigate the roles that gene regulation, cell-cell communication, cell adhesion, cell motility, signal transduction and intracellular trafficking play in the commitment, differentiation and assembly of cells into specialized tissues. The mechanisms that underlie development of multicellular organisms, from C. elegans to humans, will be examined using biochemical, genetic and cell biological approaches. In-class problem solving, group work, and active learning approaches will be used to emphasize key concepts and analyze experimental data. Two 90-minute lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: MOL 214. Instructed by: R. Burdine, D. Devenport MOL 350 Laboratory in Molecular Biology Fall SEL MOL350 prepares students to become contributing members of a research lab. Students will advance as creative, critical thinkers and effective communicators. While completing original research, students will employ techniques used by cell and molecular biologists, molecular geneticists, and biochemists. Students will discover how and why specific knowledge, skills and techniques are applied to the semester's research topic; will practice extracting pertinent information from scientific literature; and will generate a research report modeled on the scientific literature. One lecture, two three-hour laboratories. Prerequisite: MOL 214. Instructed by: J. Schottenfeld-Roames MOL 380 Modern Microbiology Fall SEN Microbes offer a rich world for exploration, a teeming universe invisible to the naked eye but thrilling in terms of diversity and scope. Human beings could not survive in their absence, yet we often think of them as the enemy. In fact, the majority are beneficial and can be harnessed for good in science and industry. This course will examine both sides: first an overview of microbial growth and function as well as specialized applications in areas such as photosynthesis, synthetic biology, quorum sensing, and CRISPR, with subsequent study of the threats to human health arising from dangerous pathogens that cause bacterial and viral disease. Instructed by: M. Jonikas MOL 408 Cellular and Systems Neuroscience (See NEU 408) MOL 415 Modern Biophysics and Systems Biology Fall At 10 nanometer scale, protein machines 'walk' on microtubule tracks. At a scale 10,000 times larger, sheets of cells self-organize to form ornate shapes that can even heal themselves after injury. This course will examine these and other complex biological systems at the molecular, cellular, and tissue scales. In parallel, we will cover the current and emerging methods that enable us to quantitatively probe and analyze biological systems. Specific topics will include structural biology from crystallography to cryo-electron microscopy, enzyme kinetics and networks, next-gen sequencing and data mining, modern microscopy and image analysis. Instructed by: Staff MOL 423 Molecular Basis of Cancer (also GHP 423 ) Spring We will explore the molecular events leading to the onset and progression of human cancer. We will review the central genetic and biochemical elements that make up the cell cycle, followed by a survey of the signal transduction pathways and checkpoints that regulate it. We will discuss oncogenes, tumor suppressor and mutator genes that act in these pathways and review the role of viral oncogenes and their action on cells. We will investigate the role of cancer stem cells and the interaction between tumor and the host environment. We will explore specific clinical case studies in light of the molecular events underlying different cancers. Instructed by: Y. Kang MOL 425 Infection: Biology, Burden, Policy (also SPI 355 / GHP 425 ) Not offered this year SEN This course will examine fundamental determinants of human microbe interaction at the biological and ecological levels. The focus will be on major global infectious diseases, their burden of illness and policy challenges for adequate prevention and control. Each infectious agent will be discussed in terms of its biology, mechanisms of pathogenesis, and epidemiology, as well as strategies for its control. Specific emphasis will be placed on the public health aspects of each disease. Prerequisite: MOL 101, MOL 214, or permission of instructor. One three-hour lecture. Instructed by: T. Shenk MOL 431 Regulatory Mechanisms in Development Spring SEN How do organisms ensure that genes are expressed at the right time and place as they develop from a single egg cell into a multicellular animal? In this seminar style course, we will explore some of the diverse mechanisms that control gene expression, including those involved in transcriptional regulation, epigenetic silencing, translational regulation and cell-cell signaling. By reading and critically evaluating the primary literature, we will explore many of the crucial molecular biology, cell biology and genetics techniques that have helped illuminate the gene regulatory mechanisms that are essential for animal development. Instructed by: P. Schedl MOL 433 Biotechnology (also CBE 434 / GHP 433 ) Spring SEN This course will consider the principles, development, outcomes and future directions of therapeutic applications of biotechnology, with particular emphasis on the interplay between basic research and clinical experience. Topics to be discussed include production of hormones and other therapeutic proteins, gene therapy, oncolytic viruses, and stem cells. Reading will be from the primary literature. Prerequisite: MOL 214. Instructed by: S. Flint MOL 437 Computational Neuroscience (See NEU 437) MOL 438 Biomolecular Engineering (See CBE 438) MOL 447 Neuroimmunology: Immune Molecules in Normal Brain Function and Neuropathology (See NEU 447) MOL 455 Introduction to Genomics and Computational Molecular Biology (See QCB 455) MOL 459 Viruses: Strategy and Tactics (also GHP 459 ) Fall SEN Viruses are unique parasites of living cells and may be the most abundant, highest evolved life forms on the planet. The general strategies encoded by all known viral genomes are discussed using selected viruses as examples. A part of the course is dedicated to the molecular biology (the tactics) inherent in these strategies. Another part introduces the biology of engagement of viruses with host defenses, what happens when viral infection leads to disease, vaccines and antiviral drugs, and the evolution of infectious agents and emergence of new viruses. Prerequisite: MOL 214 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: I. Cristea MOL 460 Diseases in Children: Causes, Costs, and Choices (also STC 460 / GHP 460 ) Fall EM Within a broader context of historical, social, and ethical concerns, a survey of normal childhood development and selected disorders from the perspectives of the physician and the scientist. Emphasis on the complex relationship between genetic and acquired causes of disease, medical practice, social conditions, and cultural values. The course features visits from children with some of the conditions discussed, site visits, and readings from the original medical and scientific literature. Prerequisite: MOL 214. Two 90-minute classes and an evening 90-minute precept. Instructed by: D. Notterman MOL 981 Junior Independent Work Fall No Description Available Instructed by: Staff Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University