Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Art and Archaeology Faculty Chair Rachael Z. DeLue Director of Undergraduate Studies Nathan T. Arrington Director of Graduate Studies Andrew M. Watsky Professor Charlie Barber Rachael Z. DeLue Hal Foster Thomas D. Kaufmann Michael Koortbojian Anne McCauley Chika O. Okeke-Agulu Andrew M. Watsky Associate Professor Bridget Alsdorf Nathan T. Arrington Brigid Doherty Beatrice E. Kitzinger Irene V. Small Cheng-hua Wang Carolyn Yerkes Assistant Professor Basile C. Baudez Patricia Blessing Samuel Holzman Anna Arabindan Kesson Carolina Mangone Deborah A. Vischak Associated Faculty Spyros Papapetros, Architecture Susan A. Stewart, English Lecturer with Rank of Professor James C. Steward Lecturer Ronni Baer Caroline I. Harris Janet E. Kay AnnMarie Perl Veronica M. White Visiting Lecturer with Rank of Professor Yve-Alain H. Bois For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Department of Art and Archaeology is devoted to the study of the visual arts and the investigation of material artifacts from a wide range of cultures and periods. It is also where students interested in the practice of art (taught by faculty in the Program in Visual Arts) can pursue a major. Working closely with faculty members in small classes and often dealing directly with original objects and primary sources, students can explore subjects as diverse as Roman city planning, Chinese calligraphy, Greek archaeology, Renaissance architecture, 19th-century photography, and contemporary art. Students in the Department of Art and Archaeology learn techniques for analyzing and interpreting the visual and material world. They also investigate the factors that influence artistic change (e.g., religious beliefs, economic constraints, patronage demands, and technological changes). Like any humanist or social scientist, they must evaluate evidence, form hypotheses, test data, and draw conclusions. Successful majors master the translation of visual perceptions into linguistic expression, develop visual memory, and make connections with a wide array of historical evidence. Students must have at least a C- average based on courses and independent work in order to graduate from the department. Students interested in majoring in the Department of Art and Archaeology must choose one of two tracks, each of which has its own admission prerequisites and curricular requirements. Advanced Placement No advanced placement credit is granted for the Art History Advanced Placement Examination. Early Concentration A sophomore may apply for early concentration through consultation with the director of undergraduate studies. Study Abroad Study abroad can be a richly rewarding part of any concentration in the Department of Art and Archaeology. Art history courses taken abroad (normally up to two per term or four for a year in a study abroad program) can be pre-approved for departmental credit by the director of undergraduate studies. Students generally study abroad during the junior year or the first term of the senior year. Junior independent work can be completed under the supervision of a departmental faculty member with prior approval and ongoing contact with the faculty adviser. Senior independent work in the fall of the senior year may be done overseas, but the spring term work must be done in residence. Students contemplating study abroad should speak with the director of undergraduate studies as early as possible and should plan to take courses in the language of the country in which they wish to study. In addition, students interested in archaeology may choose to participate in overseas archaeological excavations undertaken by departmental faculty. For further information, contact the program director. Non-majors who would like to receive credit for history of art courses taken abroad, whether during the summer or an academic term, must apply to the director of undergraduate studies for pre-approval before dean's date of the preceding term. History of Art Track Concentrators in this track pursue the study and criticism of the visual arts and the investigation of material culture from a wide range of historical periods. Prerequisites Any two courses offered by the Department of Art and Archaeology. Program of Study A total of 10 courses in the Department of Art and Archaeology, including ART 400 (Junior Seminar) and an additional two seminars at the 400- or 500-level. 7 of the 10 courses need to be taught by Art and Archaeology faculty. Students must also take at least one course in each of the following three distribution areas: Group 1 (ancient), Group 2 (medieval/early modern), and Group 3 (modern/contemporary). ART 100, ART 400, and ART 401 count as departmentals but not as distribution courses. In choosing courses to satisfy requirements, students are encouraged to explore a range of media, e.g., architecture, painting, sculpture, photography, works on paper, film. Cognates No more than two cognate courses taken in other departments (including the Program in Visual Arts) may be counted toward the 10 departmentals. This includes summer courses. Students participating in the Study Abroad Program may be allowed to count more than two courses taken overseas as departmentals. All cognate courses must be approved prior to enrollment by the director of undergraduate studies based on the submission of a syllabus and course description. Courses cross-listed with the Department of Art and Archaeology automatically count as departmentals, but do not count towards the departmental honors GPA. Junior Seminar During the fall of the junior year, all majors must take the junior seminar (ART 400). The course introduces students to various methodologies used by art historians and archaeologists, and many assignments relate directly to their junior independent work. Students who are abroad during the fall of the junior year can complete the junior seminar during the fall term of the senior year. Junior Independent Work Junior independent work begins in the fall, in the context of the junior seminar (ART 400), and continues into the spring with a faculty adviser whom the student selects. It consists of a research paper of approximately 30-40 pages on any topic related to visual and material culture. Assignments in ART 400 help students conceptualize and implement their research agendas. Senior Independent Work The senior independent work consists of a year-long research project of approximately 60-80 pages. The student selects a faculty adviser in the spring of the junior year and submits an outline and annotated bibliography to the adviser by mid-November of the senior year. The thesis grade is the average of the grades given by the faculty adviser and a second faculty reader. Senior Departmental Examination The senior departmental examination consists of a one-hour oral examination discussing the senior thesis and also covering material from departmental courses. It is attended by three faculty members, consisting of the adviser of the senior thesis, the second reader, and one additional faculty member. Practice of Art Track Concentrators in this track explore the traditions, thought processes, and methods of making visual art in connection with a liberal arts education. Courses are offered in painting, drawing, printmaking, graphic design, media, sculpture, photography, film and video production. Prerequisites Two courses in the Program in Visual Arts and one course in the Department of Art and Archaeology. By the first Wednesday following spring break, sophomores submit an application and a portfolio of creative work to the Lewis Center for the Arts administrative office. The admissions committee for the Program in Visual Arts will notify students accepted into the program by early April. No AP credit is accepted toward the Practice of Art concentration. Program of Study A total of 10 courses, of which at least seven must be from the Program in Visual Arts and three must be from the Department of Art and Archaeology and taught by Art and Archaeology faculty. The visual arts courses must include: studio courses in at least two different media; two studio courses at the 300 or 400 level; VIS 392 Issues in Contemporary Art; and VIS 416 Exhibition Issues and Methods or VIS 417 Film Seminar. The Department of Art and Archaeology courses must include: at least one course from Group 3 (19th century to the present); and two others, including at least one course from Group 1 (ancient) or Group 2 (medieval/early modern). The third course may be from any group. Courses for film students must include: three studio courses at any level in at least two different media (screenwriting courses are accepted as a different medium from film production courses); an additional two studio courses at the 300 or 400 level; VIS 392 (beginning with the Class of 2023); VIS 419 (taken in the spring of junior year); an additional film course, if students in the Class of 2022 do not take VIS 392. The Department of Art and Archaeology courses must include: at least one course from Group 3 (19th century to the present); and two others, including at least one course from Group 1 (ancient) or Group 2 (medieval/early modern). The third course may be from any group. For one of the three ART courses, film students may substitute a film course cross-listed with ART. The chronological distribution requirement remains in place. Cognates Up to two courses in studio art or art history may be taken at other institutions during the summers with prior approval by the director of undergraduate studies (for history of art courses) or the director of the Program in Visual Arts (for practice of art courses). Courses taken as part of the Study Abroad Program may be allowed to count as departmentals with prior approval from the director of undergraduate studies and the director of the Program in Visual Arts. Junior Seminar During the fall of the junior year, all concentrators must take the junior seminar, VIS 392 Issues in Contemporary Art. Beginning with the Class of 2023, film students will also be required to take VIS 392. VIS 392 coincides with admission to the junior studios and investigates the history, challenges, and rewards of studio practice. Through readings, discussions, studio critiques, and a culminating exhibition of works in progress, VIS 392 provides the foundation for students' independent creative development, as well as the impetus for beginning to be able to articulate the historical precedents and ambitions of their work. Junior Independent Work Junior independent work begins in the fall, in the context of the junior seminar and in partnership with a faculty adviser also assigned in the fall and continues into the spring. Students are provided with studio space and prepare independent work over the course of the year culminating in an exhibition as part of the Spring Junior Group Thesis Show. Film students work with one adviser throughout their junior year to create a junior film. Senior Independent Work By the end of the second week of the fall term of the senior year, students must have three advisers, including one from the Department of Art and Archaeology faculty. The senior independent work is a major studio project completed by the end of the spring term, which is done in consultation with the student's advisers. Students are assigned semiprivate studios on the second floor of 185 Nassau. Students present their work in an exhibition at the end of the year at the Lewis Center. There will be a “Thesis Evaluation,” performed by the the AA and VIS advisors, in the presence of the exhibit. The grade for the senior independent work is the average of the grade given by the AA and VIS advisors during the Thesis Evaluation. Senior Departmental Examination The senior departmental examination has two parts. (1) A one-hour critical discussion (the “Crit”) of the senior thesis exhibition in the latter half of the spring term, in the presence of each student's exhibition. The discussion is open to all Program in Visual Arts faculty and Practice of Art/Certificate students. All Visual Arts faculty who attend the Crit will grade it, and those grades will be averaged. (2) Practice of Art students participate in the same comprehensive exam ("Comps") as the History of Art students. The VIS primary adviser and the A&A adviser will be two of the three faculty present at the comprehensive exam, and their three grades will be averaged. The final grade on the transcript for the departmental examination is the average of the Crit grade and the Comps grade. Additional Information Resources for Research Outstanding resources are available for students concentrating in art and archaeology. These include the Marquand Library, a non-circulating research library with over 400,000 books; the Princeton University Art Museum; the Index of Medieval Art; the Visual Resources Collection; and the P.Y. and Kinmay W. Tang Center for East Asian Art. Firestone Library also houses extensive holdings of illuminated manuscripts, prints, and photographs in departments including the Manuscripts Division, Graphic Arts Collection, Rare Books and Special Collections, the Cotsen Children's Library, and the Western Americana Collection. Staff members in the University Art Museum and the Index of Medieval Art occasionally offer courses or otherwise participate in the department's teaching activities. Students are encouraged to take advantage of the proximity of major museum collections in New York, Philadelphia, and elsewhere. Honors Honors are awarded by a vote of the faculty to students having the highest, weighted grade point average based on grades achieved in departmental courses, junior independent work, senior independent work, and the senior oral examination. Honors are only awarded to students who are members of the graduating class. Preparation for Graduate Study Students who are contemplating graduate work in the history of art and archaeology are reminded that most graduate programs require a reading knowledge of two or more languages. In some fields German is particularly important. Certificate in Archaeology The Department of Art and Archaeology offers students the opportunity to earn a certificate in archaeology while pursuing the History of Art or Practice of Art tracks or while concentrating in another department. The Program in Archaeology aims to provide a broad introduction to the field of archaeology and to allow students to pursue archaeological interests that complement their research in other areas. Undergraduate students may apply for formal admission to the Program during their sophomore year after taking any one of the courses offered by the Program. A freshman seminar or other alternative may be approved by the program director. Certificate in Visual Arts For certificate requirements, see the description under the Program in Visual Arts. Courses ART 100 An Introduction to the History of Art: Meanings in the Visual Arts Fall LA A team-taught introduction to the history of art and to the discipline of art history. Faculty members of the Department of Art and Archaeology lecture in their fields of expertise; precepts in the renowned Princeton University Art Museum facilitate direct engagement with works of art. Not a comprehensive survey but a sampling of arts -- painting, sculpture, architecture, photography and prints -- and artistic practices from diverse historical periods, regions, and cultures. The course balances consideration of historical developments and methods of interpretation with attention to individual works of art. Instructed by: B. Baudez ART 102 An Introduction to the History of Architecture (also ARC 102 ) Spring LA A survey of architectural history in the West, from ancient Egypt to 20th-century America, stressing a critical approach to architectural form through the analysis of context, expressive content, function, structure, style, and theory. Discussion will focus on key monuments and readings that have shaped the history of architecture. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: B. Baudez ART 105 Lab in Conservation of Art (See CEE 105) ART 200 The Art and Archaeology of the Ancient Near East and Egypt (also NES 205 ) Not offered this year LA The art and archaeology of the ancient Near East and Egypt from the end of the prehistoric period, ca. 3000 B.C., to the beginning of the Iron Age, ca. 650 B.C. Focus on the rise of complex societies and the attendant development of architectural and artistic forms that express the needs and aspirations of these societies. Occasional readings in original texts in translation will supplement the study of art and architecture. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 201 Roman Architecture (also ARC 209 ) Not offered this year LA This course will examine the architecture of the Romans, from its mythic beginnings (as recounted, for example, by Vitruvius) to the era of the high empire. Topics will include: city planning; the transformation of the building trades; civic infrastructure; and the full breadth of Roman structures, both public and private. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Instructed by: M. Koortbojian ART 203 Roman Art Fall LA Roman painting, sculpture, architecture, and other arts from the early Republic to the late Empire, focusing upon the official monuments of Rome itself and the civic and private art of Pompeii and Herculaneum. Emphasis on historical representation, imperial propaganda, portraiture, narrative technique, and classical art theory. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: M. Koortbojian ART 205 Medieval Art in Europe (also HLS 205 ) Not offered this year LA The art of Europe from the fall of Rome to the Renaissance. Emphasis on the effects of cultural, religious, and political change on artistic production. Works treated include the Lindisfarne Gospels, the Bayeux Tapestry, Chartres Cathedral, and the Ste. Chapelle. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 206 Byzantine Art and Architecture (also HLS 206 ) Not offered this year LA Art and architecture of the Eastern Mediterranean and Eastern Europe ca. 600-1500. The course will focus on the art of the Byzantine Empire and its capital, Constantinople, and on its broad sphere of cultural influence (Russia, Armenia, Georgia, Sicily, Venice, Serbia, Bulgaria, Rumania). An examination of principal factors that shaped the artistic legacy of eastern Christendom during the Middle Ages. Offered in alternate years. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: C. Barber ART 210 Italian Renaissance Painting and Sculpture Not offered this year LA A selective survey, 1260-1600, allowing discussion of themes such as patronage; functions; materials and techniques; emulation as motivation; social, political, and economic issues; aesthetics; and the professions of the artist and of the art historian. Artists treated include Giotto, Masaccio, Donatello, Bellini, Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, and Titian. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 211 Major Figures in American Art Not offered this year LA A selective overview of key figures from the 18th to the 20th century, with each lecture devoted to a single painter, architect, or sculptor as representative of significant themes in the history of American art. Among the artists considered are Copley, Jefferson, Cole, Homer, Eakins, Richardson, Saint-Gaudens, Olmsted, and O'Keeffe. Two lectures, one preceptorial. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Instructed by: R. DeLue ART 212 Neoclassicism through Impressionism Fall HALA A broad study of European painting and sculpture from the French Revolution to 1900 with special attention to art's relationship to social and cultural changes. Lectures will explore a range of themes including art and revolution, the rise of landscape, shifting conceptions of realism, and the birth of "modernism" and the avant-garde. Emphasis on major figures including David, Canova, Goya, Ingres, Turner, Courbet, Manet, Monet, Degas, Rodin, Van Gogh, and Cézanne. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: B. Alsdorf ART 213 Modernist Art: 1900 to 1950 Not offered this year LA A critical study of the major movements, paradigms, and documents of modernist art from fauvism to art brut. Among the topics covered are primitivism, abstraction, collage, the readymade, machine aesthetics, photographic reproduction, the art of the insane, artists in political revolution, anti-modernism. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: H. Foster ART 214 Contemporary Art: 1950 - 2000 Spring LA A critical study of the major movements, paradigms, and documents of postwar art--abstract-expressionist, pop, minimalist, conceptual, process and performance, site-specific, etc. Special attention to crucial figures (e.g., Jackson Pollock, Andy Warhol, Robert Smithson) and problems (e.g., "the neo-avant-garde," popular culture, feminist theory, political controversies, "postmodernism"). For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: A. Perl ART 216 Aesthetics and Politics of Chinese Painting (also EAS 213 ) Not offered this year LA Thematic introduction to the role of painting in Chinese cultural history, with attention to the interaction of stylistic standards, materials, and techniques; the impact of regional geographies on landscape painting; the influence of class, gender, and social behavior on figure painting; the engagement of art with traditional philosophies and 20th-century socialism; and the shape of time in art-historical development. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Three lectures. Instructed by: C. Wang ART 217 The Arts of Japan (also EAS 217 ) Not offered this year LA Surveys arts of Japan from the pre-historic period through the present day. Painting, sculpture, and architecture form the core of study. Examines critical role of other forms, including calligraphy, lacquer, and ceramics. Takes close account of the broader cultural and historical contexts in which art was made. Topics include ongoing tension in Japanese art between foreign and indigenous, role of ritual in Japan's visual arts, re-uses of the past, changing loci of patronage, and formats and materials of Japanese art. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1, 2, or 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: A. Watsky ART 219 Northern Renaissance Art Not offered this year LA The course surveys painting, prints, and sculpture in the Netherlands, Germany, and France from about 1350-1550. With emphasis on the work of major figures such as Van Eyck, Bosch, Dürer, and Bruegel, the course will consider changing circumstances of artistic production, function, iconography, and patronage. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 221 Art of Hispania (also LAS 221 ) Not offered this year LA Painting, sculpture, and architecture in the Spanish-speaking world from 1492 to 1810. The great flowering of Spanish art, as represented by such figures as El Greco, Velázquez, and Goya, in its cultural and historical context, including developments in Latin America. Some attention to the art of Portugal. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 230 Early Islamic Art and Architecture (also NES 230 ) Not offered this year LA A survey of art in the Islamic world from 600 through 1200. The course examines the formation of Islamic art and its roots in the art of late antiquity. Emphasis will be on the development of various types of religious and secular architecture and their decoration (wall-painting, carved stucco and wood, mosaic and epigraphy) in the central regions of the early Islamic world. Topics such as textiles, metalwork, and ceramics will be considered. For department majors, this course satisfies either the Group 1 or 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 232 The Arts of the Islamic World (also NES 232 ) Not offered this year LA A survey of the architecture and the arts of various Islamic cultures between northern Africa and the Indian subcontinent from the seventh to the 20th century. Emphasis will be on major monuments of religious and secular architecture, architectural decoration, calligraphy, and painting. Background in Islam or Middle Eastern languages is not a prerequisite. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1, 2, or 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 242 The Experience of Modernity: A Survey of Modern Architecture in the West (also ARC 242 / CEE 242 ) Not offered this year LA An analysis of the emergence of modern architecture from the late 19th century to World War II, in light of new methodologies. The course will focus not only on major monuments but also on issues of gender, class, and ethnicity to provide a more pluralistic perspective on the experience of modernity. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 245 Introduction to 20th-Century African American Art (See AAS 245) ART 248 Photography and the Making of the Modern World Not offered this year LA A survey of photography from its multiple inventions in the early 19th century to its omnipresence (and possible obsolescence) in the 21st. Themes will include photography's power to define the "real"; its emulation and eventual transformation of the traditional fine arts; and its role in the construction of personal and collective memories. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: A. McCauley ART 256 Writing as Art Not offered this year LA In China, Japan, Islamic world, and other cultures, writing is ranked as highest of the visual arts, far above painting, sculpture, even architecture. Forms taken by beautiful writing are at least as diverse as the writing systems that underlie them: think of Egyptian writing, Chinese calligraphy, and Roman monumental inscriptions. This course introduces world's major calligraphic traditions and examine the functions of beautiful writing, reasons for its existence and prestige, and factors that shape styles of writing. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff ART 266 Introduction to Pre-Columbian Art Not offered this year LA General survey of the indigenous civilizations of North America, Central America, and South America. The goals are to demonstrate methods and techniques employed by art historians working in this area to study the past, and to examine how art history, archaeology, and ethnohistory contribute to the interdisciplinary study of ancient peoples. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 267 Mesoamerican Art (also LAS 267 / ANT 366 ) Not offered this year LA This course acquaints students with the art, architecture, and archaeology of ancient Mexico and Central America. The course considers a wide range of cultures spanning from the first arrival of humans at the end of the Upper Paleolithic period through the 16th century Spanish invasion. Major culture groups to be considered include Olmec, Teotihuacan, Maya, Zapotec, and Aztec. Precepts will include theoretically-focused discussions, debate regarding contested scholarly interpretations, and hands-on work with objects at the Princeton University Art Museum. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Instructed by: B. Just ART 270 Photography and Society Not offered this year LA What is the role of photography in contemporary society? By looking at photographic forms, ranging from commercial portraits, ID cards, family albums, and fashion and advertising photography to newspaper and magazine illustrations, this course explores diverse ways that photographs have come to define and challenge the "real." Students will talk with professionals in fields of journalism and fashion, examine controversies over digital manipulation and politically charged photos, and consider historical sources of contemporary styles. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: A. McCauley ART 300 Greek Archaeology of the Bronze Age Not offered this year LA A study of the culture of Greece and the Aegean from the Early Bronze Age to the eighth century B.C. Special emphasis is placed on the Minoan-Mycenaean civilization, the Dark Ages of the early first millennium, and the age of Homer. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Offered in alternate years. Instructed by: Staff ART 301 The Art of the Iron Age: The Near East and Early Greece (also HLS 301 / CLA 302 ) Not offered this year LA The course will focus on the formation of new artistic traditions in the ancient Near East and late-period Egypt after 1000 B.C.E. and then investigate their interrelationships with early Greece and the controversial theories of modern scholars of the dependence of early Greece on the ancient Near East. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: N. Arrington ART 306 Classical Athens: Art and Institutions (also CLA 306 ) Not offered this year LA An examination of the culture and institutions of classical Athens, its buildings, monuments, and works of art, set against the historical background of the city's growth. Aspects of government, religious festivals, society, and daily life are investigated. The archaeological record is enriched by study of ancient historical sources in translation. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 308 Roman Cities and Countryside: Republic to Empire Not offered this year LA Roman urban and suburban architecture throughout the Roman provinces from the late Republic to late Empire, focusing upon the Romanization of the provinces from Britain in the northwest to Arabia in the southeast. Town planning, imperial monuments, villas and sanctuaries, domestic and public architecture, and interior decoration considered. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. One three-hour class. Instructed by: Staff ART 315 Medieval Architecture (also ARC 315 ) Not offered this year LA Historical patterns of development in Western European architecture between 300 and 1300: Early Christian through Gothic, with emphasis on Romanesque and Gothic innovations. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 318 Medieval Manuscript Illumination Not offered this year LA A technical and historical introduction to manuscript illumination from the invention of the codex to the advent of the printed book. Topics include the history of script and ornament, genres of illuminated manuscripts, the varying relations between text and image, owners of books, circumstances of production. Extensive work with Princeton's manuscript collections. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two 90-minute classes. Offered in alternate years. Instructed by: Staff ART 319 Italian Trecento Art Not offered this year LA Painting and sculpture of the formative years of the early Renaissance in Italy (ca. 1250-1400) with emphasis on the cultural, social, and religious concerns that found expression in art. Topics include the relationship between art and piety, the effect of the Black Death, and the rediscovery of the classical heritage. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 320 Rome, the Eternal City (also ARC 320 ) Not offered this year LA The fabric and image of the city seen in planning, architecture, and the works of artists and writers. Attention to the city as an ideal and an example, from its foundation to the present, with emphasis on major periods. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 328 History of Architectural Theory (See ARC 308) ART 331 Weimar Germany: Painting, Photography, Film (See GER 370) ART 332 The Landscape of Allusion: Garden and Landscape Architecture, 1450-1750 (also ARC 332 ) Not offered this year LA The concept of nature from the Renaissance through the 18th century as seen in European gardens and landscape architecture. Major consideration will be given to the Italian villa-garden complex, the French classical garden, and the English romantic garden and park as evidence of large-scale planning. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 333 Renaissance and Baroque Architecture (also ARC 333 ) Not offered this year LA European architecture from 1420 to the mid-18th century with particular emphasis on its historical and social background. The various architectural movements--Renaissance, baroque, and rococo--are studied in terms of important architects and buildings especially of Italy, France, and England. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: C. Yerkes ART 334 The Renaissance (See COM 314) ART 337 Court, Cloister, and City: Art and Architecture in Central and Eastern Europe (also GER 337 ) Not offered this year LA Painting, sculpture, and architecture in Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Germany, and Russia, ca. 1450-1800. Special emphasis is placed on the changing roles of court, city, cloister, and aristocracy and the relation of local styles to international trends, including art elsewhere in Europe. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Offered in alternate years. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: T. Kaufmann ART 343 Topics in 19th-Century Art (also GSS 350 ) Not offered this year LA An often interdisciplinary study of themes and problems in 19th-century art with special attention to recent writing in the field. Possible topics include: the persistence of realism, Impressionism and its aftermath, shifting representations of masculinity and femininity, and the formation of the first European avant-gardes. The course may also center on a particular artistic medium or geographical location. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: B. Alsdorf ART 344 Topics in 20th-Century Art Not offered this year LA An often interdisciplinary study of themes and problems in 20th-century art with special attention to recent writing in the field. Possible topics include: models of abstraction, critiques of the traditional mediums of art, artistic responses to technological transformation and/or political revolution, and artistic explorations of the unconscious. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: I. Small ART 347 Architecture and the Visual Arts (See ARC 302) ART 348 Masters and Movements of 20th-Century Photography Not offered this year LA By focusing on six major figures (such as Stieglitz, Weston, Moholy-Nagy, Evans, Frank, Sherman), this course examines the ways that photography was transformed from a poor stepchild of the fine arts to a staple of museum exhibitions. Topics will include the impact of abstraction on photography; the interactions between art photography and the new print and cinematic mass media; and the development of photographic collections and criticism. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: A. McCauley ART 350 Chinese Cinema (also EAS 356 ) Not offered this year LA Thematic studies in Chinese film (Republic, People's Republic, Taiwan, Hong Kong), from the 1930s to the present with emphasis on recent years, viewed in relation to traditional and modern Chinese visual arts and literature, colonialism and globalism, Communist politics, gender and family values, ethnicity and regionalism, melodrama and the avant-garde, the cinematic market, artistic censorship, and other social issues. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar, one evening viewing session. Instructed by: Staff ART 351 Traditional Chinese Architecture (also ARC 310 / EAS 357 ) Not offered this year LA Thematic introduction to traditional Chinese architecture, urban design, and garden building, with attention to principles and symbolism of siting and design; building techniques; modularity of structures and interchangeability of palace, temple, tomb, and domestic design; regional variation. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff ART 354 The Art of the Print: From Dürer to Warhol Not offered this year LA Surveys the history of prints in Europe and the United States from 1400 to the present. It will combine two main approaches: first, the distinctive history of printmaking, including origins, evolution of techniques, and the political, religious, and cultural functions of prints; and second, individual artistic developments, with emphasis on the work of major printmakers, iconography, and formal innovations. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 or 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: A. McCauley, L. Giles ART 366 Ancient Arts of Mexico (also LAS 366 ) Not offered this year LA Detailed examination of the Pre-Columbian arts of the indigenous civilizations of Mexico. The first part of the course will examine the architecture, monumental art, and craft art of the Aztecs and their contemporaries, the Huaztecs, Tarascans, Mixtecs, Zapotecs, and Mayas. The rest of the course is designed as a survey of the major Mexican art traditions that preceded them. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ART 370 History of American Art to 1900 Not offered this year LA An introduction to the history of art in the United States from the colonial period to 1900. Works of art will be examined in terms of their cultural, social, intellectual, and historical contexts. Students will consider artistic practices as they intersect with other fields, including science and literature. Topics include the visual culture of natural history, fashioning the self, race and representation, landscape and nation, art and the Civil War, gender politics, art and medicine, and realism and deception. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: R. DeLue ART 371 History of American Art, 1900 to the Present Not offered this year LA Introduction to the history of American art, 1900 to present. Artists and works of art are examined in terms of cultural, social, intellectual, and historical contexts. Students will consider artistic practices as they intersect with other fields, including science and literature. Topics include modern metropolis, art and social reform, Harlem Renaissance, early film, identity politics, abstract art, machine age, post-modernism, and globalization. Visits to the Princeton University Art Museum are an integral part of the course. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: R. DeLue ART 373 What is Black Art: Art History and the Black Diaspora (also AAS 373 ) Not offered this year LA An introduction to the history of African American art and visual culture from the colonial period to the present. Artists and works of art will be considered in terms of their social, intellectual, and historical contexts. Students will consider artistic practices as they intersect with other cultural spheres, including science, politics, religion, and literature. Topics and readings will be drawn from the field of art history as well as from cultural studies, critical race theory, and the history of the Atlantic world. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: A. Kesson ART 374 Postblack - Contemporary African American Art (See AAS 372) ART 377 Modernist Photography and Literature (See GER 373) ART 391 Art in Germany Since 1960 (See GER 371) ART 392 Artist and Studio (See VIS 392) ART 400 Junior Seminar Fall LA The Junior Seminar is an introduction to the myriad subjects, methods, and strategies of art history. The course examines the different kinds of evidence and methodological tools that have been used to identify, explain, and contextualize works of art as well as other kinds of objects, artifacts, and cultural phenomena. In other words, this seminar considers what art historians do, and how and why they do it. In addition, majors will learn how to use resources such as the library and the museum, and how to undertake substantive written research projects. Students begin their Junior Independent Work in this seminar. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: N. Arrington ART 401 Introduction to Archaeology Spring EC Introduces students to the methods and thinking of archaeologists and prehistorians. Topics include the concept of prehistory; ethnographic analogy and the interpretation of material remains; relating material culture to texts; schemes of cultural interpretation; and how to read an excavation report. This seminar is required for the Certificate in Archaeology. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: P. Blessing ART 410 Seminar. Greek Art (also HLS 410 ) Not offered this year LA Topics of Greek art and architecture that will normally deal with the Hellenistic period (323-31 B.C.). Depending on student interest, special subjects may also be treated in relation to the Hellenistic period, such as classicism, or the course may concentrate on thematic studies, such as architectural sculpture. Two 90-minute seminars. Prerequisite: a course in ancient art or instructor's permission. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1 distribution requirement. Offered in alternate years. Instructed by: N. Arrington ART 420 Seminar in Asian Art Not offered this year LA A topic in Chinese or Japanese art, explored in depth. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 1, 2, or 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Prerequisite: a course in Asian art or the instructor's permission. Instructed by: A. Watsky ART 423 Landscape Art in China (also EAS 423 ) Not offered this year LA A course about Chinese concepts of nature and human nature, theories and traditions of landscape art. Weekly consideration of such themes as replicating and transforming the landscape; submission to/control of nature; landscape as political allegory; pilgrimage and exile; gardens and artists' studios; landscape magic in ancient China; endangered pandas, power dams, and the technology of modern art. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 or 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff ART 424 Virtue, Tyranny, and the Political Functions of Chinese Painting Not offered this year LA The patrons of Chinese painting and many of its leading artists were politicians by profession, both royal and commoner-bureaucrats, and much of their art was designed to fulfill political functions: propaganda, moral self-cultivation, self-advertisement and self-consolation, expressions of support, resistance, and resignation. Half of the course covers premodern China, half covers the 20th century. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 or 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Prerequisite: a course in Chinese art history or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff ART 425 The Japanese Print (also EAS 425 ) Fall LA An examination of Japanese woodblock prints from the 17th through the 19th century. This seminar considers formal and technical aspects of woodblock prints, and the varied subject matter, including the "floating world" of prostitution and the theater, Japanese landscape, and burgeoning urban centers. Students explore the links between literature and prints, especially the re-working of elite classical literary themes in popular prints. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 or 3 distribution requirement. Prerequisite: at least one course in art history or Japanese studies, or permission of instructor. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: A. Watsky ART 430 Seminar. Medieval Art (also MED 430 / HLS 430 ) Fall HALA Topics in medieval art and/or architecture. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: C. Barber ART 438 Representation of Faith and Power: Islamic Architecture in Its Context (also NES 428 ) Not offered this year LA The seminar explores the means by which messages of political and religious content were conveyed in Islamic architecture. Selected key monuments or ensembles will be discussed on the basis of their specific historical and religious setting. Special attention will be given to the problem of symbolism in Islamic architecture. For department majors, this course satisfies either the Group 1 or 2 distribution requirement. Instructed by: Staff ART 440 Seminar. Renaissance Art Not offered this year LA Topics in 15th- and 16th-century art. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: T. Kaufmann ART 442 Master Drawings Not offered this year LA The study of techniques, functions, and connoisseurship of drawings, and their place in the interpretation of the history of art. Drawings ca. 1400-1800 will be the major objects considered. Extensive use of the resources of the art museum. For department majors, this course satisfies either the Group 2 or 3 distribution requirement. Prerequisite: a course in Renaissance or baroque art or instructor's permission. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: T. Kaufmann ART 443 Global Exchange in Art and Architecture (also LAS 443 ) Not offered this year LA Examines the global exchange in art and architecture between and among the continents of Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas in the period 1492-1800. The course focuses on the geographical, historical, religious, anthropological, and aesthetic aspects of issues such as cultural encounters, diffusion, transculturation, regionalism, and related topics. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: T. Kaufmann ART 445 Topics in the History and Theory of Architecture in Early-Modern Europe (also ARC 445 ) Not offered this year LA Topics will focus on major figures, such as Palladio, Wren, and Piranesi; centers, such as Rome and Venice; or themes, such as architectural theory, the legacy of classical antiquity, and the villa. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: C. Yerkes ART 446 Seminar. Northern European Art of the Late Middle Ages and Early Renaissance Not offered this year LA This seminar will address various aspects of northern European art during the period late Middle Ages through early Renaissance. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff ART 448 Seminar. 17th- and 18th-Century Art (also ECS 448 ) Not offered this year LA Topics in 17th- and 18th-century art and architecture. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 2 distribution requirement. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: T. Kaufmann ART 450 Seminar. 19th-Century European Art (also FRE 408 ) Not offered this year LA This seminar will focus in depth on a specific aspect of art, history, theory, and criticism in Europe between 1789 and 1914. Possible topics include French painting and its critics, portraiture and sociability, shifting conceptions of realism and naturalism, the onset of modernism, and representations of interior space. Prerequisites: a course in the art of this period or permission of the instructor. Visits to area museums. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: B. Alsdorf ART 452 Seminar. Modernism: The Ends of Art Not offered this year LA Does art have an essential nature? Do different mediums--painting, sculpture, photography, film, television, video--have specific ontologies that demand specific methods? How is the autonomy of art debated, and why is this debate so central to modernism? With images and texts by primary artists and critics, the seminar will investigate the "ends" of art in the sense of posited goals and presumed deaths. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: H. Foster ART 454 Topics in the History of Photography Not offered this year LA Topics on the aesthetic and stylistic development of photography, including the study of movements and related critical theory, and on the artistic achievement of particular photographers. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: A. McCauley ART 456 Seminar. Contemporary Art Not offered this year LA Topics in contemporary painting, sculpture, or criticism in Europe and America since World War II. Prerequisite: a course in the art of this period or instructor's permission. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: I. Small ART 458 Seminar. Modern Architecture (also ECS 458 / ARC 458 / FRE 458 ) Not offered this year LA A study of some of the major themes and movements of modern architecture from the late 19th century to the present day. Students will be encouraged to examine the social and political context, to probe the architects' intellectual background, and consider issues of class and gender in their relation to architectural and urban form. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff ART 461 Great Cities of the Greek World (See HLS 461) ART 463 American Art and Visual Culture Not offered this year LA An in-depth exploration of the history, theory, and interpretation of American art and visual culture from the colonial period to the present day. Topics covered will include race and representation in American art and culture; art and science; landscape art and theory; the Harlem Renaissance; and the art and artists of the Stieglitz circle. Visits to the Princeton University Art Museum as well as to other area museums (such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York) will be an integral part of this course. For department majors, this course satisfies the Group 3 distribution requirement. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: R. DeLue ART 471 Art, Apartheid, and South Africa (See AAS 411) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University