Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems Faculty Director Szymon M. Rusinkiewicz Associate Director Naomi E. Leonard Executive Committee Amir Ali Ahmadi, Oper Res and Financial Eng Daniel J. Cohen, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Niraj K. Jha, Electrical & Comp Engineering Anirudha Majumdar, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Peter J. Ramadge, Electrical & Comp Engineering Olga Russakovsky, Computer Science For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems is designed for undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing careers or graduate education in three general areas: The analysis, design, and development of systems that automate manufacturing, transportation, health care, environmental stewardship, scientific research, and other activities, The creation of systems for learning, adaptation, decision making, identification, estimation, and control using concepts drawn from cognitive and biological sciences, and The understanding of human intelligence from the perspective of neuroscience and computation. New industries and organizations depend increasingly on the interplay between engineering, computing, and the life sciences. Innovations and inventions require multidisciplinary approaches and entrepreneurship, as well as grounding in theory and practice, in topics that may not be covered by a single department. The program offers an integrated set of core and elective courses, introducing students to fundamental concepts, providing depth in specific fields of interest, and setting the stage for further achievement. Students are encouraged to expand their experience through summer internships with companies, government agencies, and university laboratories. Admission to the Program The program is open to juniors and seniors who have a satisfactory background in mathematics, science, and computing. Students should have successfully completed: Mathematics through MAT 202 or 204. The A.B. science and engineering general education requirement or the B.S.E. first year science requirement. COS 126, ECE 115 or an equivalent computing course. Students planning to earn the program certificate should enroll by filling out the form at the program's website. A new form listing updated progress towards the certificate must be filled out at the beginning of each year, and seniors must complete the form no later than the seventh week of their final year. Program of Study Students in this program must satisfy both program and departmental requirements. The detailed program for each student is worked out by the student and the student's director of undergraduate studies. The program requirements are as follows: 1. All students must take six courses, including three core courses and three electives. To qualify for the certificate, a minimum grade average of B- in the six program courses is required. Program courses may not be taken on a pass/D/fail basis, unless that is the only grading alternative for the course. However, all courses taken on a pass/D/fail basis during Spring 2020, Fall 2020, or Spring 2021 will be accepted for the program. Courses may simultaneously fulfill both certificate program requirements and regular departmental requirements. Core Courses - one from each group: Control Systems - One Course: ECE 301 - Designing Real Systems MAE 345 / COS 346 / ECE 345 - Introduction to Robotics ECE 346 / COS 347 / MAE 346 - Intelligent Robotic Systems MAE 433 - Automatic Control Systems MAE 434 - Modern Control Laboratory - One Course: ECE 206 / COS 306 - Contemporary Logic Design ECE 302 - Robotic and Autonomous Systems Lab MAE 224 - Integrated Engineering Science Laboratory PHY 210 - Experimental Physics Seminar Cognition, Language, and Decision Making - One Course: MUS 248 / PSY 248 - Music Cognition NEU 201 / PSY 258 - Fundamentals of Neuroscience NEU 202 / PSY 259 - Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience NEU 330 / PSY 330 - Computational Modeling of Psychological Function NEU 422 / PSY 422 - Dynamics in Cognition PSY 255 / CGS 255 - Cognitive Psychology PSY 316 / NEU 316 - The Cognitive Neuroscience of Selective Attention PSY 337 / NEU 337 - Neuroscience of Social Cognition and Emotion PSY 345 / NEU 325 - Sensation and Perception PSY 454 / COS 454 - Probabilistic Models of Cognition SPI 340 / PSY 321 - The Psychology of Decision Making and Judgment Electives - Three Courses: A maximum of two courses from the same department may be used to satisfy the requirement. Courses listed above may be counted as electives if they are not being used to satisfy a core program requirement. An up-to-date list of additional approved electives may be found on the program's website. 2. A one-term senior independent work project or two-term senior thesis whose topic is relevant to robotics and intelligent systems must be completed and presented to the program committee. Junior independent work projects do not fulfill the certificate requirement. A minimum grade of B- for the project or thesis is required to qualify for the certificate. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all program requirements will receive a certificate of proficiency in robotics and intelligent systems upon graduation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University