Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Contemporary European Politics and Society Faculty Director John W. Borneman Executive Committee Edward G. Baring, History David A. Bell, History Sandra L. Bermann, Comparative Literature Markus K. Brunnermeier, Economics Rafaela M. Dancygier, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Michael D. Gordin, History Harold James, History Sophie Meunier Aitsahalia, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Yair Mintzker, History Andrew Moravcsik, Politics Jan-Werner Müller, Politics Grigore Pop-Eleches, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Kim Lane Scheppele, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Iryna Vushko, History Natasha G. Wheatley, History For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Contemporary European Politics and Society, an affiliate of the Princeton Institute for International and Regional Studies, encourages the interdisciplinary study of modern Europe, with a particular focus on politics, economics, and society in western and central Europe since World War I. The program sponsors a core course (EPS 301, 302, or HIS 212/EPS 212). In addition, it sponsors lectures, seminars, and other programs for the entire University community. The program offers a certificate in Contemporary European Politics and Society. Program of Study Students who will receive a certificate in contemporary European politics and society must meet the following requirements: Take one of the following gateway courses: EPS 301, EPS 302, or HIS 212/EPS 212. Take at least four other courses from the list of core courses that have an emphasis on European politics and society. Other courses may be approved by the director. Of the four courses, at least one must be chosen from among offerings in history and at least one must be chosen from among offerings in the other social sciences. Fulfill a language requirement by doing one of the following: Take a 200- or 300-level course in a European language. Demonstrate fluency in a European language by taking a test administered by the program. Any national language spoken in a European country may be used to satisfy the requirement. The expectation is that students will have sufficient linguistic competence to use research materials in the language for their senior thesis research. Write a senior thesis on a subject related to contemporary European politics and society. Students majoring in departments where a senior thesis on modern Europe is not possible may petition the director to have another piece of independent research meet this requirement. Certificate of Proficiency A student who has met the requirements of the program and of the home department and has maintained satisfactory standing will receive a certificate of proficiency in contemporary European politics and society upon graduation. Courses EPS 212 Europe in the World: From 1776 to the Present Day (See HIS 212) EPS 217 Paris Live(s) (See FRE 217) EPS 227 Contemporary Issues in Spain (See SPA 227) EPS 300 European Politics and Society in the 20th and 21st Centuries Fall SA The critical developments of 20th-century Europe and the consolidation of democracy in European countries, including the legacy of the two world wars, Nazism, Stalinism, the Cold War, colonialism and decolonization, the birth and development of the European Community, the development of the welfare state, the problems confronting the European Union (immigration, enlargement, political institutions, military role), and the varieties of democratic institutions in Europe. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: E. Suleiman, D. Moak EPS 301 Turning Points in European Culture (See ECS 301) EPS 302 Landmarks of European Identity (also ECS 302 ) Fall HA This course gives a broad and interdisciplinary perspective on some of the very diverse cultural and historical roots of European identity. It examines contemporary debates over contested identity in the light of long historical trajectories in which identities were continually defined and reshaped. It is conceived as an introduction to many of the courses in Princeton dealing with European issues. The landmarks include, but are not restricted to, written texts. They include Machiavelli, Montesquieu, Marx, and J.S. Mill, but also Fra Angelico, Beethoven and Thomas Mann. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: H. James EPS 322 Memory, Democracy, and Public Culture: Berlin and Its Pasts (See GLS 302) EPS 342 Economics of Europe (See ECO 372) EPS 416 Fear and France (See FRE 414) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University