Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Environmental Studies Faculty Director Corina E. Tarnita Director of Graduate Studies Ian C. Bourg Executive Committee Ian C. Bourg, Civil and Environmental Eng Jacob S. Dlamini, History William A. Gleason, English Melissa Lane, Politics Erika L. Milam, History Rob Nixon, English Laure Resplandy, Geosciences Gabriel A. Vecchi, Geosciences Jeffrey Whetstone, Lewis Center for the Arts For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Environmental Studies (ENV) offers a vibrant, multidisciplinary forum for engaging the scientific, political, humanistic, and technological dimensions of the greatest environmental challenges facing the world today. The Program in Environmental Studies (ENV) educates a generation of Princeton students as leaders to address critical environmental challenges that they will face throughout their careers and in life. We provide a strong community for students with an interest in environmental topics and provide opportunities that include a wide array of courses, summer internships, and funding to support independent work in the junior and senior years. The ENV program is distinctive for the broad disciplinary backgrounds of participating students. Students majoring in any discipline wishing to demonstrate proficiency in environmental studies may pursue a certificate in environmental studies. Experiential learning is integral to environmental studies at Princeton. Several of the courses offer laboratory and field experiences. The internship program and opportunities are offered by High Meadows Environmental Institute (HMEI) and open to all students regardless of their being an ENV certificate student. The program offers many summer domestic and international internships after their first-year, sophomore, and junior years. Funding is also available for students wishing to conduct field research as a component of their independent work during the junior or senior year. Equally important to the life of the program are the colloquia and other events through which students may present their work, work collectively on group projects and interact with leading scientists and policy makers in the field. The Program in Environmental Studies is part of the High Meadows Environmental Institute (HMEI), the interdisciplinary center for environmental research, education, and outreach at Princeton University. HMEI is committed to advancing knowledge and developing the next generation of leadership in the environmental field. The institute comprises several major interdisciplinary research centers and educational programs for undergraduate and graduate students. Admission to the Program The Program in Environmental Studies is open to all A.B. and B.S.E. students. Students interested in pursuing a certificate are encouraged to register as early as their first year by completing the ENV Certificate Program Student Profile Form. Students should also meet with the director, Program in Environmental Studies or the academic program manager as soon as possible to plan a tentative course of study, including requirements for the Generalist track or the Science and Engineering track. Program of Study ENV courses explore emerging environmental themes and research in the sciences, engineering, social sciences and humanities. Taught by world-class faculty and researchers, our classes include topics in climate science, environmental policy, land use and agriculture, environmental history, environmental communications, earth systems science, environmental justice, literature and the arts. Undergraduates may enroll in ENV courses starting in their first year. Students in the certificate program, whether pursuing the Generalist track or the Sciences and Engineering track, are required to complete five courses, investigate an environmental topic as an element of their departmental thesis, and participate in the senior year colloquium. Students must receive a grade of C or higher (no Pass/D/Fail) in all courses taken in fulfillment of the requirements for the ENV certificate. Generalist Track The ENV Generalist track is designed for students who want a broad based introduction to environmental issues and who wish to study a wide range of topics in environmental studies from a variety of perspectives (social, political, scientific, etc.). Students in the Generalist track must complete the following: One foundation course: ENV 200: The Environmental Nexus. Students enrolled in ENV 200 select from one of several precept/lab varieties, ENV A-F, the choice which fulfills differing distribution requirements (EM, LA, QCR, SA, SEL, or SEN). Students are encouraged to take the foundation course as early as possible in their academic careers. Please note students in the Generalist track may elect any one of the precept options for ENV 200 and are not required to take the laboratory option. Four (4) electives spanning the academic divisions of natural science, engineering, social science or humanities. Two of these four courses must be from different academic divisions. Three of the four electives must be taken at the 300-level or higher. Students interested in the Generalist Track may choose ENV course electives from among a broad array of topics or elect to focus their coursework in a specific area of interest. Humanities electives include courses with environmental relevance from departments such as Art and Archaeology, English, and Philosophy, as well as the School of Architecture. Social Science electives include courses with environmental relevance from departments such as Anthropology, Economics, History, Politics, and the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs. Natural Science electives include courses with environmental relevance from departments such as Chemistry, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Geosciences, Molecular Biology, and Physics. Engineering electives include courses with environmental relevance from departments such as Chemical and Biological Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Except with the approval of the ENV Program Director or the Academic Program Manager no more than one of these three elective courses may count toward the student’s departmental concentration or another certificate. In all cases, students are encouraged to meet with the Program Director or Academic Program Manager in order to choose an appropriate sequence of courses. Courses from each of the four elective areas are identified on the program website. The Program provides a suggested sequence of courses to assist students with particular interest in the Environmental Humanities, Environmental Social Sciences, Food and Agriculture, or Sustainability. Students are encouraged to discuss elective choices with the Director, Program in Environmental Studies or Academic Program Manager early in their planning process. Courses that are not designated as ENV electives but have significant environmental content may also be accepted pending approval by the ENV Director; this includes courses listed under the Sciences and Engineering Track. Environmental Sciences and Engineering Track The Environmental Sciences and Engineering Track is for students who want to enter the program by building on course material derived from upper-level science and engineering courses in their area of expertise. Such advanced courses will enable students to delve deeply into the scientific and technical dimensions of the most complex and urgent environmental challenges facing humanity. Students are able to choose among topics, ranging from conservation and biodiversity, to climate change, to the global energy system to fresh water. Science and Engineering Track Course Requirements: Students in the Environmental Sciences and Engineering Track must complete the following: One Environmental Science Foundation Courses (Choose 1) EEB 321: Ecology: Species Interactions, Biodiversity and Society ENV 302/CEE 302/EEB 302: Practical Models for Environmental Systems ENV 354/GEO 354: Climate and Weather: Order in the Chaos One Additional Foundation Course: (Choose 1): ENV 369/ENG 383: Environmental Imaginings and Global Change ENV SPI 350/ENV 350: The Environment: Science and Policy Two environmental science or engineering electives at the 300-level or above. One of the two electives must be a laboratory course. Students are also required to take one policy or humanities elective at the 300-level or above. Except with the approval of the ENV program director or the academic program manager no more than one of these three elective courses may count toward the student’s departmental concentration or another certificate. In all cases, students are encouraged to meet with the program director or academic program manager in order to choose an appropriate sequence of courses. Environmental sciences and engineering track electives are identified on the program website. Additional Program Requirements Senior Thesis. Students in the program earning a certificate via either the Generalist or Science and Engineering track are expected to examine an environmental issue as a component of their senior thesis. The topic must be approved by both the director as well as the director of undergraduate studies in the student's concentration. The environmental content of the senior thesis will be reviewed as part of the senior thesis colloquium (see below). Students who find it difficult to incorporate an environmental topic into their departmental senior thesis should meet with the ENV program director to find a suitable alternative as early as possible in their senior year. Senior Colloquium. All students pursuing the ENV certificate are required to participate in a faculty-led colloquium during their senior year. The ENV senior colloquium involves a series of gatherings over the course of the academic year that offers students a unique and important forum for discussing outcomes of their independent work and exchanging perspectives on global environmental issues. One of the most important aspects of the senior colloquium is the interdisciplinary dialogue facilitated by the participation of students and faculty members from a wide range of academic departments. The culmination of the senior colloquium in the spring is HMEI's Discovery Day, a poster presentation that allows students to share the final outcomes of their thesis research with fellow students, faculty, and staff. Certificate of Proficiency Students who meet the requirements of the program receive a certificate of proficiency in environmental studies upon graduation. Courses ENV 102A Climate: Past, Present, and Future (See GEO 102A) ENV 102B Climate: Past, Present, and Future (See GEO 102B) ENV 200A The Environmental Nexus Fall SA This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, M. Fleurbaey, R. Nixon ENV 200B The Environmental Nexus Fall SEL This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, M. Fleurbaey, R. Nixon ENV 200C The Environmental Nexus Fall EM This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, R. Nixon, M. Fleurbaey ENV 200D The Environmental Nexus Fall QCR This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, M. Fleurbaey, R. Nixon ENV 200E The Environmental Nexus Fall LA This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, M. Fleurbaey, R. Nixon ENV 200F The Environmental Nexus Fall SEN This course offers an introduction to the scientific, technological, political, ethical and humanistic dimensions of the nexus of environmental problems that pose an unprecedented risk at mid-century: climate change, biodiversity loss, and food and water for 9 billion people. All sections of ENV 200 will meet together for lecture each week, but students will enroll in one of six possible precepts that will meet separately and pursue a particular disciplinary focus and earn credit for the corresponding distribution area. Instructed by: S. Pacala, M. Fleurbaey, M. Lane ENV 201A Fundamentals of Environmental Studies: Population, Land Use, Biodiversity, and Energy (also STC 201A ) Not offered this year SEN This course explores how human activities have affected land use, agriculture, fisheries, biodiversity, and the use of energy in the USA and around the world. Students examine the fundamental principles underlying contemporary environmental issues, and use case studies to illustrate the scientific, political, economic, and social dimensions of environmental problems. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff ENV 201B Fundamentals of Environmental Studies: Population, Land Use, Biodiversity, and Energy (also STC 201B ) Not offered this year SEL This course explores how human activities have affected land use, agriculture, fisheries, biodiversity, and the use of energy in the USA and around the world. Students examine the fundamental principles underlying contemporary environmental issues, and use case studies to illustrate the scientific, political, economic, and social dimensions of environmental problems. Two lectures, one preceptorial, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff ENV 202A Fundamentals of Environmental Studies: Climate, Air Pollution, Toxics, and Water Not offered this year SEN This course will focus on the environmental consequences of human activities and their interactions with natural systems on global scales, focusing on four main areas of current environmental concern: climate and global change; the atmosphere and air pollution; toxics in the environment; and water resources exploitation and pollution. Underlying principles will be explored for each topic, with examples and case studies used to highlight interconnections between the scientific, technological, political, economic, and social dimensions of environmental issues. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: B. Ward ENV 202B Fundamentals of Environmental Studies: Climate, Air Pollution, Toxics, and Water Not offered this year SEL This course will focus on the environmental consequences of human activities and their interactions with natural systems on global scales, focusing on four main areas of current environmental concern: climate and global change; the atmosphere and air pollution; toxics in the environment; and water resources exploitation and pollution. Underlying principles will be explored for each topic, with examples and case studies used to highlight interconnections between the scientific, technological, political, economic, and social dimensions of environmental issues. Two lectures, one preceptorial, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: B. Ward, E. Zerba ENV 203 Measuring Climate Change: Methods in Data Analysis and Scientific Writing (See GEO 201) ENV 205 Interdisciplinary Design Studio (See ARC 205) ENV 206 Designing Sustainable Systems (See ENE 202) ENV 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (See CEE 207) ENV 219 Catastrophes across Cultures: The Anthropology of Disaster (See ANT 219) ENV 226 Living, Naturally: Organisms, Ecologies, and Norms in Greco-Roman Antiquity (See CLA 226) ENV 230 Culture and the Environment in East Asia (See EAS 230) ENV 300 Environmental Engineering and Energy (See CEE 304) ENV 301 Nature and Infrastructure in South Asia (See ARC 301) ENV 302 Practical Models for Environmental Systems (also CEE 302 / EEB 302 ) Spring QCR Humans are increasingly affecting environmental systems throughout the world. This course uses quantitative analysis to examine three of today's most pressing issues: energy, water, and food. Each issue is examined from perspectives of natural and engineered ecosystems that depend on complex interactions among physical, chemical, and biological processes. The course is an introduction for students in the natural sciences and engineering pursuing an advanced program in environmental studies. We emphasize quantitative analyses with applications to a wide range of systems, and the design of engineered solutions to major environmental problems. Instructed by: M. Celia ENV 303 Agriculture, Human Diets and the Environment (also EEB 303 ) Spring SEN Food fuels us and our diets connect us with nature at many scales. Yet most of us poorly understand how food is produced and how production processes impact our diets, health, livelihoods and the environment. By the course's end, students will better understand the ethical, environmental, economic, social and medical implications of their food choices. Food production methods ranging from hunting, fishing and gathering to small and large scale crop and animal farming will be examined through lenses of ethics, ecology, evolutionary biology, geography, political economy, social dynamics, physiology, climate change and sustainability. Instructed by: D. Rubenstein ENV 304 Disease Ecology, Economics, and Policy (also ECO 328 / EEB 304 / SPI 455 ) Fall SEN The dynamics of the emergence and spread of disease arise from a complex interplay among disease ecology, economics, and human behavior. Lectures will provide an introduction to complementarities between economic and epidemiological approaches to understanding the emergence, spread, and control of infectious diseases. The course will cover topics such as drug-resistance in bacterial and parasitic infections, individual incentives to vaccinate, the role of information in the transmission of infectious diseases, and the evolution of social norms in healthcare practices. One three-hour lecture, one preceptorial. Instructed by: C. Metcalf, B. Grenfell ENV 305 Topics in Environmental Studies Fall SA Special topics courses related to the broad field of environmental studies. Instructed by: F. Popper, D. Popper ENV 306 Topics in Environmental Studies Spring HA Special topics courses related to the broad field of environmental studies. Seminar. Instructed by: F. Popper, D. Popper ENV 307 Agriculture and Food: A Foundation for Living Agriculture and food provide all people with a foundation for living. Our land and water resources provide food, fiber, medicines, industrial commodities, fuel and more. The course investigates and analyzes specific topics in agriculture and food, and evaluate the environmental impact of our current practices. Focuses on agriculture and looks at the challenges farmers face to produce enough food for a growing world population. Looks critically at the controversies over technologies used to address these challenges, and to consider whether, and how, farming can be done in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: X. Morin ENV 308 Documentary Filmmaking in Kenya (See GLS 312) ENV 310 Environmental Law and Moot Court SA Examining the relationship between law and environmental policy, this course focuses on cases that have established policy principles. The first half of the seminar will be conducted using the Socratic method. The second half will allow students to reargue either the plaintiff or defendant position in a key case, which will be decided by the classroom jury. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: G. Hawkins ENV 313 The Ecological Worlds of Japanese Culture (See EAS 313) ENV 315 The Port of New Orleans: Culture and Climate Change (See VIS 325) ENV 316 Climate Science and Communications Spring LA Climate change has the potential to wreak great havoc over the next century, threatening ecosystems, economies, and human lives. Scientists are putting enormous effort into trying to understand the causes, effects, and possible solutions to the climate-change problem. Yet the public still has only a vague idea of what climate science actually says, and much of that is badly distorted. The course will explore how to communicate to the public about climate change through print, Web, and video, in ways that are at once clear, compelling, and scientifically rigorous. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: M. Lemonick ENV 317 Literature, Landscape and Place-Making in the African Environmental Imagination (See AFS 318) ENV 318 Environmental Conflicts and Indigenous Media (also HUM 318 / JRN 318 ) Spring LA The last decade has seen the rise of global Indigenous movements related to environmental concerns from the People's Agreement of Cochabamba to recent protests over pipelines in the U.S. and Canada. Concurrently, there has been a notable rise in the reach and presence of Indigenous media even as mainstream media have failed to provide accurate, fair, or consistent coverage. Drawing on Environmental, Media, Science, and Indigenous Studies scholarship, this course will examine persistent media critiques and emergent digital infrastructures that are rapidly changing what it means to both report on and participate in these social movements. Instructed by: C. Callison ENV 319 Environmental Economics (See SPI 306) ENV 322 Toward an Environmental History of the Mediterranean (See HIS 308) ENV 327 Investigating an Ethos of Sustainability at Princeton Fall EM Achieving sustained human and environmental health is a global priority given increasingly disruptive economic, social and environmental conditions. Evidence suggests that humanity is capable of producing sustainable technological and social solutions, but must do so between now and mid-century. This course explores social/ethical dimensions of the sustainability challenge through an evaluation of related ethics and psychology of social norms literature, and includes an exercise in proposing evidence-based solutions toward cultivating an ethos of sustainability on the Princeton campus as a demonstration-scale system. Instructed by: S. Weber ENV 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World (See MAE 328) ENV 331 Environmental Chemistry: Chemistry of the Natural Systems (See GEO 363) ENV 334 Global Environmental Issues (See CEE 334) ENV 335 The Energy Water Nexus (See CBE 335) ENV 336 Environment and Migration (See SOC 337) ENV 338 The Literature of Environmental Disaster (See FRE 338) ENV 339 Climate Change: Impacts, Adaptation, Policy (See GEO 366) ENV 341 Water, Savannas, and Society: Global Change and Sustainability in Africa's Hallmark Ecosystem (See EEB 341) ENV 344 Water, Engineering, and Civilization (See CEE 344) ENV 345 Thinking Through Soil (also URB 345 / ARC 345 / LAS 395 ) Fall EC Soil is a critical resource for an increasingly urbanized planet. In this course our goal will be to familiarize ourselves with the fundamentals of soil science and soil theory in order to consider the relationship between soils and the urban environment. Through engagements with both humanistic and empirical scholarship we will develop a perspectival approach to tracing the diverse political and disciplinary contexts in which soil is made an object of knowledge. Collectively we will then consider a basic question that is still unresolved in the environmental humanities: how should we write the history of a soil? Instructed by: Staff ENV 349 Writing about Science (See STC 349) ENV 350 The Environment: Science and Policy (See SPI 350) ENV 351 Fundamentals of Biofuels (See ENE 318) ENV 353 Chemistry of the Environment (also CEE 353 / GEO 353 ) Spring SEN This course provides the chemical background to understand many of today's most important environmental issues. Topics include atmospheric pollution, the ozone hole, ocean acidification, acid mine drainage, and coastal dead zones. Overall, the course focuses on a quantitative understanding of the chemistry of the atmosphere and natural waters. Students will use the chemical equilibrium model Minteq to study specific examples related to water quality issues. Instructed by: A. Morel-Kraepiel ENV 354 Climate and Weather: Order in the Chaos (also GEO 368 ) Spring SEN This course focuses on the relationship between climate and weather events: each weather event is unique and not predictable more than a few days in advance, large-scale factors constrain the statistics of weather events, those statistics are climate. Various climatic aspects will be explored, such as the geographic constraints, energy and water cycling, and oceanic and atmospheric circulation, solar heating, the El Niño phenomenon, ice ages, and greenhouse gases. These climate features will be used to interpret the statistics of a number of weather events, including heat waves, tropical cyclones (hurricanes and typhoons) and floods. Instructed by: G. Vecchi ENV 355 Economics of Food and Agriculture (See ECO 355) ENV 356 Geochemistry of the Human Environment (See GEO 360) ENV 357 Empire of the Ark: The Animal Question in Film, Photography and Popular Culture (also AMS 457 / GSS 357 / ENG 315 ) Spring EC This course explores the current fascination with animals in film, photography and popular culture, engaging central issues in animal and environmental studies. Why has looking become our main way of interacting with animals? How does rethinking animals inspire us to rethink being human? How can we transform our relations with other species and the planet? Course themes include: wilderness, national parks and zoos; the cult of the pet; vampires, werewolves and zombies; animal speech, animal emotions and rights; nature, sexuality and race. Exploring planetary crises such as extinction and climate change, and positive strategies for change. Instructed by: A. McClintock ENV 359 New Directions in Environmental Humanities Fall LA In an era in which environmental science is routinely ignored by citizens and politicians alike, humanities' approaches to the environment--including thinking critically, politically, aesthetically, and philosophically--are increasingly necessary. This course introduces students to cutting edge, recent scholarship in central themes in environmental humanities, from food studies to science fiction, from historical analyses of climate change to environmental racism, with case studies from the deserts, tropics, oceans, and beyond. Materials include essays, monographs, films, fiction, and visits by authors. Instructed by: R. Price ENV 361 Earth's Atmosphere (See GEO 361) ENV 362 Earth History (See GEO 362) ENV 363 Writing the Environment through Creative Nonfiction (also ENG 337 ) Fall LA This workshop will expose participants to some of the most dynamic, adventurous environmental nonfiction writers while also giving students the opportunity to develop their own voices as environmental writers. We'll be looking at the environmental essay, the memoir, opinion writing, and investigative journalism. In the process we'll discuss the imaginative strategies deployed by leading environmental writers and seek to adapt some of those strategies in our own writing. Readings will engage urgent concerns of our time, like climate change, extinction, race, gender and the environment, and relations between humans and other life forms. Instructed by: R. Nixon ENV 365 Conservation Biology (See EEB 308) ENV 366 Oil, Energy and The Middle East (See NES 366) ENV 367 Modeling the Earth System: Assessing Strategies for Mitigating Climate Change (also GEO 367 ) Fall QCR This course is an introduction to earth system modeling for students interested in global environmental issues. Students will use a "compact" or "reduced" earth system model, including the ocean, the land and the atmosphere, to examine how the system responds to human activities and natural climate variations. In small groups, they will design mitigation and geo-engineering scenarii (reforestation, carbon capture, emission limitation etc.), test their impact using the model and analyze and discuss their results. This course is designed to give students a critical thinking about climate models, their strengths and their limitations. Instructed by: L. Resplandy ENV 370 Sedimentology (See GEO 370) ENV 371 Resource Recovery for a Circular Economy (See ENE 321) ENV 372 Rapid Switch: The Energy Transition Challenge to a Low-carbon Future (See ENE 372) ENV 375 Crossing the Climate Change Divide (also ENG 275 / JRN 375 ) Fall The effects of climate change are here, now. Yet Americans are divided on this singular issue. Or are they? While media portray climate change debates as binary, fact-averse conservative denialists vs. Green-New-Deal leftists, the reality is that all Americans are experiencing changes in their own backyards. Journalist and Visiting Professor Subramanian traveled across the country collecting climate change stories told by conservative farmers, ranchers, dogsledders, evangelical Christians, and others. We'll explore why facts alone can fail and how political, economic and religious beliefs shape the climate debate for people far from academia. Instructed by: Staff ENV 376 Political Natures: The Politics of Nature and Development in Latin America (See LAS 317) ENV 377 Sustainable Cities in the US and India: Technology & Policy Pathways (also CEE 377 / SAS 377 / URB 377 ) Spring SA An interdisciplinary exploration of our quest for urban sustainability in different parts of the world. We will: 1) Explore the concept of sustainable cities, focusing on systems that provide food, energy, water, mobility, housing, waste management, and public spaces to more than half the world's people that live in urban areas today; 2) Compare and contrast cities in the US and India, understanding their diverse contexts and current baseline in terms of infrastructure, environment, economy, health, wellbeing and equity. 3) Explore pathways to a more sustainable future, including technology innovation, policy and social entrepreneurship. Instructed by: A. Ramaswami ENV 378 Nature vs. Culture: A European Problem (See ECS 378) ENV 381 Climate Change as Threat (and Opportunity) Multiplier (also JRN 381 / URB 381 ) Spring SA The US Department of Defense has called climate change a ''threat multiplier," referencing military bases inundated by sea level rise and increased global political instability from extreme weather events. But every aspect of life on earth, for humans and other living creatures, is changing because of a rapidly warming planet. This class will explore everything from the state of songbirds to the national security concerns of war hawks to agriculture to urban design to storytelling to social justice. The aim is to understand how climate change exacerbates existing struggles and how innovative climate solutions might help ease them. Instructed by: M. Subramanian ENV 383 Environmental Justice Through Literature and Film (See ENG 384) ENV 384 Dilemmas of Development in Asia (See EAS 302) ENV 386 Literature and Environment (See ENG 386) ENV 394 History of Ecology and Environmentalism (See HIS 394) ENV 401 Environmental Policy Workshop Not offered this year The workshop will focus on currently unresolved environmental policy questions from the perspective of the scientific evidence available to support alternative interventions and the accompanying social, economic, and political trade-offs and conflicts that require adjudication. Prerequisite: 201 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: B. Singer ENV 405 The Land Crisis for Food, Climate and Wildlife Fall SA People have plowed up, cut-down and otherwise heavily manipulated more than 75% of the world's land, and the degree and extent of this manipulation continues to expand to meet rising demands for food and wood products. This course will explore the consequences for biodiversity and climate change, the drivers of change and scenarios for the future. Students will think through the complex issues behind conservation planning for biodiversity and gain understanding of what is known and not known about the global carbon cycle. Major class papers and a final presentation by each student will explore solutions. Instructed by: T. Searchinger ENV 406 Energy and Form (See ARC 406) ENV 407 Africa's Food and Conservation Challenge (also AFS 407 / GHP 427 ) Fall SA This course will explore the economic, environmental, and social challenges of meeting growing food needs in sub-Saharan Africa. The region today has the lowest crop yields, the highest percentage of hungry people, and the highest population growth rates, and relies heavily on firewood for energy. The region also has vast areas of environmentally valuable forests and savannas. It has technical opportunities to produce crops better but faces challenges from high rainfall variability and climate change. The course will balance instruction, guest lectures and presentations by student teams, which will also produce a final paper. Instructed by: T. Searchinger ENV 414 Amazonia, The Last Frontier: History, Culture, and Power (See LAS 412) ENV 417A Ecosystems and Global Change (See EEB 417A) ENV 417B Ecosystems and Global Change (See EEB 417B) ENV 418 Microbial Life - A Geobiological View (See GEO 416) ENV 419 American Agrarians: Ideas of Land, Labor, and Food (See AMS 419) ENV 426 Exposure: The Storied Landscape of Bears Ears National Monument and America's Public Lands (also HUM 426 / VIS 426 ) Spring LA In this course, students will be introduced not only to the politics of place but also to an ethics of place explored through the lenses of culture, ecology, and fossil fuel development. Students will explore and interrogate what communities in the arid Southwest look like in this era of climate change. The semester will consider the work of artists and writers engaged in witnessing and documenting environmental change and will involve research for a final project. There will be a seven-day field trip immersion in the complexities surrounding Bears Ears National Monument in southeastern Utah during spring break. Instructed by: F. Sheikh ENV 427 Fundamentals of the Earth's Climate System (See GEO 427) ENV 429 Ocean Bio-Physical Interactions and Climate (See GEO 429) ENV 431 Solar Energy Conversion (See ENE 431) ENV 432 Environment and War (See HIS 432) ENV 434 Marx and the Marxist Method of Analysis: A Primer for All Disciplines (See HIS 412) ENV 463 Instabilities in Fluids: Linear and Non-linear Analysis of Waves and Patterns in the Environment (See MAE 463) ENV 464 History with Objects and Landscapes (See HIS 464) ENV 472 Environmental Chemistry of Soils (See GEO 470) ENV 473 White Hunters, Black Poachers: Africa and the Science of Conservation (See HIS 473) ENV 492 Topics in the Formal Analysis of the Urban Structure (See ARC 492) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University