Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Asian American Studies Faculty Director Aisha M. Beliso-De Jesús Associated Faculty Anne Cheng, English Erin Y. Huang, East Asian Studies Christina H. Lee, Spanish & Portuguese Beth Lew-Williams, History Ryo Morimoto, Anthropology Paul Nadal, English Kinohi Nishikawa, English For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Asian American Studies, administered by the Program in American Studies, provides students with the opportunity to gain an interdisciplinary perspective on the diversity of Asian American and Pacific Islander histories, cultures, and contemporary experiences. The course of study focuses on the formative emergence of this pan-ethnic group in the United States. It also highlights Asian America’s transnational connections and contexts, including the dynamics of globalization, migration, imperialism, and post-coloniality. In addition, the Program in Asian American Studies’ structure facilitates productive engagement with the fields of American studies and Latino studies and encourages comparative and intersectional work with the Department of African American Studies, the Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies and other relevant fields of study that help to contextualize Asian American histories and cultures within the diversity of experiences in the U.S. Admission to the Program The program is open to students from all departments. Students may enroll in the Asian American studies certificate program at any time, including the first year. There are no prerequisites, and courses taken prior to enrollment may count towards the certificate requirements. Students may take the gateway course AMS 101 at any time during their studies, including after enrollment in the certificate program. To enroll in the program, students should complete the online enrollment form . Students should plan to meet with the associate director or undergraduate administrator of the Program in American Studies before the end of their first year of enrollment, to review their plans for fulfilling the certificate requirements. Program of Study Students may earn a certificate in Asian American studies by successfully completing the following requirements, consisting of five courses: AMS 101: America Then and Now Three courses in Asian American studies, either originating in the program or cross-listed, and preferably representing disciplinary breadth in the social sciences, arts, and humanities. No more than one course taken in fulfillment of the student’s concentration may be counted toward the certificate. With the approval of the associate director, a student may substitute a comparative race and ethnicity course that contains substantial Asian American studies content for one of these courses. An advanced seminar in American studies, preferably taken in the senior year. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all the requirements of the program will receive a certificate in Asian American studies upon graduation. Courses ASA 201 Introduction to Asian American Studies (also ENG 209 ) Fall CDSA This course surveys critical themes in the interdisciplinary field of Asian American studies, including perspectives from history, literature, sociology, and gender and sexuality studies. It develops an account of Asian racialization beyond the black-white binary in the context of US war and empire in Asia and the Pacific Islands, settler colonialism, globalization, migration, and popular culture. Who or what is an "Asian American"? How have conceptions of Asian America changed over time? How do cultural forms such as literature and film add to an understanding of Asian American identity as a historically dynamic process and social relation? Instructed by: P. Nadal ASA 293 Chinatown USA (See ENG 293) ASA 314 Dangerous Bodies: Cross-Dressing, Asia, Transgression (See EAS 314) ASA 328 South Asian American Literature and Film (See SAS 328) ASA 370 Asian American History (See HIS 270) ASA 444 Global Novel (See ENG 444) ASA 482 Arab America: Culture, Activism, and Resistance (See HIS 482) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University