Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty Chair Howard A. Stone Director of Undergraduate Studies Michael G. Littman Director of Graduate Studies Michael E. Mueller Professor Craig B. Arnold Emily Ann Carter Edgar Y. Choueiri Mikko P. Haataja Yiguang Ju Chung K. Law Naomi E. Leonard Michael G. Littman Luigi Martinelli Clarence W. Rowley Howard A. Stone Associate Professor Alexander Glaser Marcus N. Hultmark Egemen Kolemen Michael E. Mueller Daniel M. Nosenchuck Assistant Professor Ryne Beeson Daniel J. Cohen Luc Deike Kelsey B. Hatzell Jesse D. Jenkins Andrej Kosmrlj Anirudha Majumdar Julia Mikhailova Associated Faculty Amir Ali Ahmadi, Oper Res and Financial Eng Elie R. Bou-Zeid, Civil and Environmental Eng Nathaniel J. Fisch, Astrophysical Sciences Bruce E. Koel, Chemical and Biological Eng David N. Spergel, Astrophysical Sciences Salvatore Torquato, Chemistry Robert J. Vanderbei, Oper Res and Financial Eng Claire E. White, Civil and Environmental Eng Professor Emeritus (teaching) Robert H. Socolow Lecturer Yang Du Lamyaa El-Gabry Debdipta Goswami For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering recognizes that students have a variety of career objectives. Some enter industry directly in an engineering capacity and some continue their studies in graduate school in engineering or applied science. Other MAE graduates pursue careers in business, law, or medicine. The department offers sufficient flexibility to students planning an undergraduate program that meets any of these objectives and guides them to build fundamental knowledge in key engineering disciplines and develop practical skills in problem-solving and design. The subjects of solid and fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, dynamics, control systems, materials, and applied mathematics, combined with the experience of engineering design, are core to the department's curriculum. Both the mechanical and aerospace engineering programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. General Requirements Requirements for study in the department follow the general requirements for the School of Engineering and Applied Science. In addition, the following four courses and one laboratory are normally completed by departmental students before entry into the junior year. Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Programs 206 Introduction to Engineering Dynamics 221 Thermodynamics 222 Mechanics of Fluids 223 Modern Solid Mechanics 224 Integrated Engineering Science Laboratory Some of the above can be satisfied by equivalent courses. For example, students with an interest in structures may take CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids in place of MAE 223; and students with an interest in engineering physics may take PHY 205 Classical Mechanics or PHY 207 Mechanics and Waves in place of MAE 206. Each departmental student will be introduced to instrumentation and computer-based data acquisition in the MAE 224 laboratory. Departmental Requirements In order to qualify for graduation each departmental student must satisfactorily complete the following: One upper-level course involving applications of mathematics: MAE 305 Mathematics in Engineering I Eight upper-level departmental courses A. Among these are engineering science courses selected from the following list: Dynamics and Control 331 Aircraft Flight Dynamics 341 Space Flight 433 Automatic Control Systems (required for all students) 434 Modern Control Fluid Mechanics/Thermal Sciences 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World 335 Fluid Dynamics 336 Viscous Flows 423 Heat Transfer 426 Rocket and Air-Breathing Propulsion Technology 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications 552 Viscous Flows--Viscous Flows and Boundary Layers Materials/Structures 324 Structure and Properties of Materials MSE 301 Materials Science and Engineering CEE 312 Statics of Structures CEE 361 Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods B. A minimum of three courses must be in the area of engineering design. At least two of these must be selected from the following list: 321 Engineering Design (required for all students) 322 Mechanical Design (required for mechanical engineering or 412) 332 Aircraft Design (required for aerospace engineering or 342) 342 Space System Design (required for aerospace engineering or 332) 412 Microprocessors for Measurement and Control (required for mechanical engineering or 322) III. All students are required to participate in a self-directed research or engineering project. (See Independent Work below.) The remainder of the 36 courses required for the B.S.E. may be chosen from a wide variety of options. At least seven of these must be in the humanities or social sciences, as required by the School of Engineering and Applied Science. The rest of the courses may be used to pursue a specialty within the department, combine studies with another department, follow one of the topical program curricula, or further expand studies within the humanities or social sciences. Each student's program is planned individually in consultation with the class adviser. Suggested plans of study for each of the programs in the department are available from the director of undergraduate studies. Program of Study The department offers two programs of study: mechanical engineering and aerospace engineering. These programs draw on courses in the underlying fundamental sciences and mathematics during the first year, which lead to broad introductory engineering science courses during the second year, where students are introduced to the creative application of this knowledge to the solution of technical problems. Aspects of engineering design, the process of devising a system to meet a need, are introduced to the student through laboratories in the second year and continue through the upper-level years. During the third year all students take a two-semester design sequence as well as further engineering science courses dealing with analysis and application in the areas of energy sources and power systems, structures, aerodynamics and flow systems, and the dynamics of machines and their control. The introduction of design during the third year, combined with further depth in engineering science, enables students to undertake realistic design projects during their senior year. The programs are designed to prepare the graduate for an engineering career and give him or her the ability to continue to grow professionally. Mechanical Engineering This program deals with the analysis and design of machines, their motion, power sources, and control. The curriculum is based on dynamics, thermodynamics, and the study of the structure and behavior of fluid and solid materials; it is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Students are exposed to the process of engineering design through 321 Engineering Design, 322 Mechanical Design, or 412 Microprocessors for Measurement and Control, and one additional design elective, which is fulfilled by Senior Thesis, Senior Independent Work or Senior Project. All mechanical engineering students must take: 423 Heat Transfer or 335 Fluid Dynamics or 336 Viscous Flows; and 433 Automatic Control Systems and a mathematics elective normally selected from the following list: Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 306 Mathematics in Engineering II Operations Research and Financial Engineering 245 Fundamentals of Engineering Statistics 307 Optimization 309 Probability and Stochastic Systems 363 Computing and Optimization for the Physical and Social Sciences Mathematics 330 Complex Analysis with Applications 393 Mathematical Programming Computer Science 302 Mathematics for Numerical Computing and Machine Learning 340 Reasoning about Computation Physics 403 Mathematical Methods of Physics The dynamics and controls option is recommended for students desiring an emphasis on the study of the motion and control of vehicles and machines. The design option is recommended for students desiring an emphasis on mechanical engineering design. The departmental requirements (II. A. above) for both of these options are normally satisfied by a selection of courses from the following list: 331 Aircraft Flight Dynamics 340D Junior Independent Work with Design 341 Space Flight 344 Biomechanics and Biomaterials: From Cells to Organisms 345 Introduction to Robotics 423 Heat Transfer 434 Modern Control The energy sciences option is recommended for students desiring an emphasis on power sources. The departmental requirements (II. A. above) are normally satisfied by: 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World 423 Heat Transfer 426 Rocket and Air-Breathing Propulsion Technology 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications 434 Modern Control In either case, in order to satisfy the departmental requirement for upper-level courses, at least one is to be selected from each of the three stems (Dynamics and Control; Fluid Mechanics and Thermal Sciences; and Materials/Structures). Aerospace Engineering This program deals with the analysis and design of aerospace vehicles. The curriculum is based on the applications of principles from dynamics, control, thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and solid mechanics; it is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Part of the departmental design requirement (II. B. above) is satisfied by 321 Engineering Design and 332 Aircraft Design or 342 Space System Design. The departmental requirements (II. A. above) are normally satisfied by: 331 Aircraft Flight Dynamics or 341 Space Flight 335 Fluid Dynamics 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications OR 426 Rocket and Air-Breathing Propulsion Technology 433 Automatic Control Systems Independent Work All seniors are required to participate in a research or engineering project by completing at least one semester of independent work. A year-long senior thesis or senior project also meets this requirement. All projects must include engineering design (engineering design is the process of devising a system, component, or process to meet desired needs). The following courses satisfy this requirement: senior independent work (439) (one semester offered in fall); senior independent work (440) (one semester offered in spring); senior thesis (442) (year-long individual effort); senior project (444) (year-long team or group effort). Any of these courses may satisfy the third design requirement in either the Aerospace or Mechanical programs. Students are strongly encouraged to select the year-long thesis or project. For the senior thesis or project, a final grade is issued in the spring. Preparation for Graduate Study Students who are considering graduate work in applied science may elect the engineering physics option by combining the engineering courses in the department with the requirements of the interdepartmental engineering physics program. Program in Sustainable Energy. This program provides an understanding of Earth, global climate, and environmental change from the perspective of engineering, technology, and policy. The future of societies, the global economy, and the global environment depend on collaborative research into renewable energy, alternative fuels, advanced energy conversion and storage systems, technology transfer to developing countries, and prudent judgment on policies to support sustainable energy technology. Innovations and inventions require multidisciplinary approaches and entrepreneurship, as well as grounding in theory and practice, in topics that are not covered by a single department. This certificate program offers an integrated set of core and elective courses, introducing students to fundamental concepts, providing depth in specific fields of interest, gaining laboratory and site visit experiences, and setting the stage for further work in the field. See the Program in Sustainable Energy entry or view program information online. Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems. Robotics and intelligent systems have become focal points for research and development, and they are central to advances in manufacturing technology. New approaches for analysis, design, and synthesis of systems are being developed using symbolic representation of knowledge, electronic neural networks, and parallel supercomputers. Students have an opportunity to learn the theory and practice of automation and to pursue independent study projects in related areas. The mechanical and aerospace engineering department offers a number of courses in this area and is preparing a new generation of engineers in robotics and intelligent systems. For more information, see the Program in Robotics and Intelligent Systems entry or view program information online. Program in Materials Science and Engineering. The materials concentration in mechanical engineering is designed to provide a coherent understanding of the structure, properties, and performance of materials from a mechanics and materials perspective. The materials concentration will provide a foundation in basic and applied science, as well as an introduction to the design and applications of materials. Students are given the opportunity to specialize in areas such as structural materials, biological materials, micro- and nanotechnology, and materials modeling and simulations. This can be achieved by taking a sequence of electives drawn from different departments, and also by engaging in a materials-related senior thesis topic designed to facilitate the specializations. This course of study will prepare students for graduate education in a wide range of areas, or the beginning of a professional career in materials engineering. Students electing this concentration will receive a degree in mechanical engineering. Students are encouraged to simultaneously participate in the Program in Materials Science and Engineering. Most students in this concentration normally take: MAE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials MAE 325 Structural Analysis and Finite-Element Methods MAE 344 Biomechanics and Biomaterials: From Cells to Organisms MSE 302 Laboratory Techniques in Materials Science Other Programs. Students in mechanical and aerospace engineering with an interest computing, in addition to their departmental studies, may wish to follow the Program in Applications of Computing. Students may also wish to pursue the Program in Engineering Physics, the Program in Engineering Biology, the Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics, and the Program in Optimization and Quantitative Decision Science. Some of the courses in these programs may also satisfy departmental requirements. Energy and Environmental Studies. Students with an interest in energy conversion and the generation and control of environmental pollutants normally take: 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World 423 Heat Transfer 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications See also the Program in Environmental Studies. Courses MAE 102A Engineering in the Modern World (See CEE 102A) MAE 102B Engineering in the Modern World (See CEE 102B) MAE 206 Introduction to Engineering Dynamics Spring QCR Formulation and solution of equations governing the dynamic behavior of engineering systems. Fundamental principles of Newtonian mechanics. Kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies. Motion relative to moving reference frames. Impulse-momentum and work-energy relations. Free and forced vibrations of mechanical systems. Introduction to dynamic analysis of electromechanical and fluid devices and systems. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: MAT 201, PHY 103, and MAE 223 or CEE 205. Instructed by: A. Majumdar MAE 221 Thermodynamics (also ENE 221 ) Fall SEL Heat and work in physical systems. Concepts of energy conversion and entropy, primarily from a macroscopic viewpoint. Applications to engines, heat pumps, refrigeration, and air-conditioning systems. In the laboratory students will carry out experiments in the fields of analog electronics and thermodynamics. For MAE concentrators only, a combined final laboratory grade will be issued in the spring laboratory course 224, which includes the laboratory work of both 221 and 224. Three lectures, one class, one preceptorial, and one three-hour laboratory. Prerequisites: PHY 103 and MAT 201, which may be taken concurrently. Instructed by: L. El-Gabry MAE 222 Mechanics of Fluids (also CEE 208 ) Spring Introduction to the physical and analytical description of phenomena associated with the flow of fluids. Topics include the principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy; lift and drag; open channel flow; dynamic similitude; laminar and turbulent flow. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: MAT 104 and 202; MAT 202 may be taken concurrently. Instructed by: M. Hultmark MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics (also CEE 323 ) Fall Fundamental principles of solid mechanics: equilibrium equations, reactions, internal forces, stress, strain, Hooke's law, torsion, beam bending and deflection, and deformation in simple structures. Integrates aspects of solid mechanics with applications to mechanical and aerospace structures (engines and wings), and microelectronic and biomedical devices (thin films). Topics include stress concentration, fracture, plasticity, fatigue, visco-elasticity and thermal expansion. The course synthesizes descriptive observations, mathematical theories, and engineering consequences. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 104, and PHY 103. Instructed by: A. Kosmrlj MAE 224 Integrated Engineering Science Laboratory Spring SEL Core laboratory course for concentrators, who carry out experiments in the fields of digital electronics, fluid mechanics, and dynamics. Students also complete an independent research project. Continuation of the laboratory component of 221; a combined final grade will be issued based upon laboratory work in both 221 and 224. Prerequisite: 221 Typically taken concurrently with 222. One three-hour laboratory, one class. Instructed by: L. El-Gabry MAE 228 Energy Technologies in the 21st Century (also EGR 228 / CBE 228 / ENE 228 ) Not offered this year SEN Addresses issues of regional and global energy demands, including sources, carriers, storage, current and future technologies, costs for energy conversion, and their impact on climate and the environment. Also focuses on emissions and regulations for transportation. Students will perform cost-efficiency and environmental impact analyses from source to end-user on both fossil fuels and alternative energy sources. Designed for both engineering and non-engineering concentrators. Two 90-minute lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: L. El-Gabry MAE 305 Mathematics in Engineering I (also MAT 391 / EGR 305 / CBE 305 ) Fall/Spring QCR An introduction to ordinary differential equations. Use of numerical methods. Equations of a single variable and systems of linear equations. Method of undermined coefficients and method of variation of parameters. Series solutions. Use of eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Laplace transforms. Nonlinear equations and stability; phase portraits. Partial differential equations via separation of variables. Sturm-Liouville theory. Three lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201 or 203, and MAT 202 or 204, or MAE 303. Instructed by: P. Brun, H. Stone MAE 306 Mathematics in Engineering II (also MAT 392 ) Spring Solution of partial differential equations. Complex variable methods. Characteristics, orthogonal functions, and integral transforms. Cauchy-Riemann conditions and analytic functions, mapping, the Cauchy integral theorem, and the method of residues with application to inversion of transforms. Applications to diffusion, wave and Laplace equations in fluid mechanics and electrostatics. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisite: 305 or equivalent. Instructed by: M. Haataja MAE 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy (See AST 309) MAE 321 Engineering Design Spring Focus on design processes and procedures using modern engineering tools. Parametric design techniques are introduced in the computer-design laboratory along with simulation tools. Instruction in basic and computer-based manufacturing methods is given in the manufacturing laboratory. Teams of students conduct projects that involve the complete design cycle from concept and first principles through optimization, prototype, and test. Two lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisites: 206, 221, 222, and 223 or CEE 205, or instructor's permission. Instructed by: G. Northey MAE 322 Mechanical Design Fall This course builds on the technical foundation established in 321, and extends the scope to include a range of advanced mechanical design. Teams of students will design and fabricate a wheeled robotic system that will draw upon multidisciplinary engineering elements. The robot will facilitate common daily tasks which vary each year. CAD, CAE, and CAM will be utilized in the design/simulation/prototype process. Labs are designed to reinforce and expand CAD and CAE skills. Two 90-minute lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisites: 321 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: D. Nosenchuck MAE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials (also MSE 324 ) Fall An introduction to the properties of engineering materials that emphasizes the correlation between atomic and microscopic structure and the macroscopic properties of the materials. Topics include structural, mechanical, thermodynamic, and design-related issues important to engineering applications. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: C. Arnold MAE 325 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods (See CEE 361) MAE 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World (also EGR 328 / ENV 328 / ENE 328 ) Spring SEN This course addresses, in technical detail, the challenge of changing the future global energy system to accommodate constraints on the atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration. Energy production strategies are emphasized, including renewable energy, nuclear fission and fusion, the capture and storage of fossil-fuel carbon, and hydrogen and low-carbon fuels. Efficient energy use is also considered, as well as intersections of energy with economic development, international security, local environmental quality, and human behavior and values. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: J. Mikhailova MAE 331 Aircraft Flight Dynamics Not offered this year Introduction to the performance, stability, and control of aircraft. Fundamentals of configuration aerodynamics. Methods for analyzing the dynamics of physical systems. Characterization of modes of motion and desirable flying qualities. Two 90-minute lectures and one preceptorial. Prerequisites: 206 and 222. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 332 Aircraft Design Not offered this year Building on strength of materials and calculus, this course integrates physical laws to analyze stress and displacement fields in structures. The course introduces basic concepts and equations in three dimensions and then applies them to aircraft structures. Phenomena to be discussed include elastic anisotropy, bending, buckling, fracture, and fatigue. The course is important for anyone interested in structured design. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 335 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 335 Fluid Dynamics Fall Low-speed incompressible potential flow theory and high speed compressible flows. Low-speed topics include circulation, vorticity, d'Alembert's paradox, potential flows, and finite wing theory. High-speed topics include speed of sound, nozzles, shock waves, expansion waves, and effects of heat addition and friction. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: 221, 222 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: D. Nosenchuck MAE 336 Viscous Flows Not offered this year Viscous flow with main emphasis on boundary layer theory. Derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, the boundary layer approximations and boundary conditions. Studies of typical laminar boundary layers, the transition problem, semi-empirical analysis of turbulent boundary layers, and convective heat transfer. Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) methods for viscous flow. Instructed by: L. El-Gabry MAE 339 Junior Independent Work Fall Independent work is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Students develop a topic of their own or select from a list of topics prepared by the faculty. They develop a work plan and select an adviser and are assigned a second reader. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in either 339 for fall or 340 for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 339D Junior Independent Work with Design Fall Independent work with design is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Similar to 339, with the principal difference that the project must incorporate aspects and principles of design in a system, product, vehicle, device, apparatus, or other design element. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in 339D for fall, or 340D for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 340 Junior Independent Work Spring Independent work is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Students develop a topic of their own or select from a list of topics prepared by the faculty. They develop a work plan and select an adviser and are assigned a second reader. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Enroll in either MAE 339 for fall or MAE 340 for spring. This course does not fulfill the departments independent work or thesis requirement. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 340D Junior Independent Work with Design Spring Independent work with design is intended for juniors doing only a one-term project. Similar to MAE 340, with the principal difference that the project must incorporate aspects and principles of design in a system, product, vehicle, device, apparatus, or other design element. At the end of the term, students submit a written report and make a presentation to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. This course will fulfill the additional engineering science elective in the Mechanical Program. It will not fulfill the departments independent work or senior thesis requirement. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 341 Space Flight Fall This course addresses the various concepts that form the basis of modern space flight and astronautics. The focus is on space flight analysis and planning and not hardware or spacecraft design. The topics include space flight history, orbital mechanics, orbit perturbations, near-Earth and interplanetary mission analysis, orbit determination and satellite tracking, spacecraft maneuvers and attitude control, launch, and entry dynamics. Use of advanced software for the planning and analysis of space missions. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: 305 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: E. Choueiri MAE 342 Space System Design Spring This course examines the design of a modern spacecraft or complex space system, including the space environment and its impact on design. The principles and design aspects of the structure, propulsion, power, thermal, communication, and attitude subsystems are studied. The course also introduces systems engineering, project management, manufacturing and test, mission operations, mission design, and space policy. Acting as a single project team, students will design a satellite or space system from conception to critical design review. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: 206, 305, 341 recommended, or instructor's permission. Instructed by: E. Choueiri MAE 344 Biomechanics and Biomaterials: From Cells to Organisms (also MSE 364 ) Spring SEN The fundamental concepts required for the design and function of implantable medical devices, including basic applications of materials, solid mechanics and fluid mechanics to bone/implant systems. The course examines the interfaces between cells and the surfaces of synthetic biomaterials that are used in orthopedic and dental applications. Prerequisites: MAT 103 and 104, and PHY 103 and 104. Three one-hour lectures. Instructed by: D. Cohen MAE 345 Introduction to Robotics (also COS 346 / ECE 345 ) Fall Robotics is a rapidly-growing field with applications including unmanned aerial vehicles, autonomous cars, and robotic manipulators. This course will provide an introduction to the basic theoretical and algorithmic principles behind robotic systems. The course will also allow students to get hands-on experience through project-based assignments. Topics include inverse kinematics, motion planning, localization, mapping, vision, and reinforcement learning. Prerequisites: MAT 201 or 203, MAT 202 or 204, COS 126. Recommended ORF 309 and MAE 305. A.B. students ST requirement; B.S.E. students 1st-year science requirement. Two 90-minute lectures. Instructed by: A. Majumdar MAE 353 Science and Global Security: From Nuclear Weapons to Cyberwarfare and Artificial Intelligence (See SPI 353) MAE 412 Microprocessors for Measurement and Control Spring Introduction to microcontroller applications. A laboratory course dealing with the design and construction of self-contained computer-based electronics projects. Major topics include a review of digital and linear electronics, an introduction to microcomputer architecture and assembly language programming, device interfacing, mechanical mechanisms, electromechanical actuation, and system design. Two lectures, two two-hour laboratories. Prerequisite: 221 and 224, or equivalent. Instructed by: M. Littman MAE 423 Heat Transfer (also ENE 423 ) Not offered this year Covers the fundamentals of heat transfer and applications to practical problems in energy conversion and conservation, electronics, and biological systems. Emphasis will be on developing a physical and analytical understanding of conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer, as well as design of heat exchangers and heat transfer systems involving phase change in process and energy applications. Students will develop an ability to apply governing principles and physical intuition to solve multi-mode heat transfer problems. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: D. Nosenchuck MAE 425 Introduction to Ocean Physics for Climate (See GEO 425) MAE 426 Rocket and Air-Breathing Propulsion Technology Spring The study of principles, flight envelopes, and engine designs of rocket and ram/scramjet propulsion systems. Topics include jet propulsion theory, space mission maneuver, combustion control, and system components of chemical and non-chemical rockets (nuclear and electrical propulsion), gas turbine, ramjet, and scramjet engines. Characteristics, optimal flight envelopes, and technical challenges of combined propulsion systems will be analyzed. Prerequisites: 221 and 222. Three lectures. Instructed by: Y. Ju MAE 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications (also ENE 427 ) Spring An overview of energy utilization in, and environmental impacts of, current and future propulsion systems for ground, air, and space propulsion applications. Introduces students to principles of advanced internal combustion, electric hybrid, and fuel cell energy conversion systems for ground transportation.Relevant thermodynamics, chemistry, fluid mechanics, and combustion fundamentals will be stressed. Performance properties of power plants, control of air pollutant emissions, and minimization of resource-to application carbon emissions will be explored.Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: 221, 222, or instructor's permission. Instructed by: M. Mueller MAE 433 Automatic Control Systems Fall SEL Introduction to the analysis and design of automatic control systems. Mathematical models of mechanical and electrical feedback systems. Block diagram algebra. Accuracy, speed of response, and stability. Root locus, Bode, and Nyquist techniques. Introduction to digital control. Regulation, tracking, and compensation. Effects of nonlinearity, disturbance, and noise. Prerequisite: 305 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute lectures, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: C. Rowley, M. Littman MAE 434 Modern Control Spring Introduction to modern state-space methods for control system design and analysis. Application to multiple-input, multiple-output dynamical systems, including robotic systems and flexible structures. State-space representation of systems. Stability. Controllability and observability. State feedback control. Observers and output feedback control. Optimal control design methods. Three lectures. Instructed by: Staff MAE 435 Special Topics in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Not offered this year Presentation of timely and advanced topics in mechanical and aerospace engineering. Subject matter will vary depending upon the interest of the faculty and students. Possible topics could include acoustics and noise, biomechanics, lasers, space propulsion, solar energy conversion. Three lectures. Instructed by: Staff MAE 436 Special Topics in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Spring Presentation of timely and advanced topics in mechanical and aerospace engineering. Subject matter will vary depending upon the interest of the faculty and students. Possible topics could include acoustics and noise, biomechanics, lasers, space propulsion, solar energy conversion. Instructed by: F. Grasso MAE 439 Senior Independent Work Fall Senior independent work is the culminating experience for the mechanical and aerospace engineering programs. Students select a subject and adviser, define the problem to be studied and propose a work plan. Projects include engineering design, defined as devising a system, component, or process to meet desired needs. A list of possible subjects of particular interest to faculty and staff members is provided. Students must submit a written final report and present their results to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 440 Senior Independent Work Spring Senior independent work is the culminating experience for the mechanical and aerospace engineering programs. Students select a subject and adviser, define the problem to be studied and propose a work plan. Projects include engineering design, defined as devising a system, component, or process to meet desired needs. A list of possible subjects of particular interest to faculty and staff members is provided. Students must submit a written final report and present their results to faculty, staff, fellow students, and guests. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 442 Senior Thesis Spring Senior thesis is a year-long independent study for individual students. It is the culminating experience for the mechanical and aerospace programs. Work begins in fall, but enrollment is in spring when a double grade is recorded. Projects include engineering design, defined as devising a system, component, or process to meet desired needs. Students develop their own topic or select a faculty proposed topic. Students create a work plan and select an adviser. A written progress report is expected at the end of the fall term. Students submit a written final report and make an oral presentation at the end of the spring term. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 444 Senior Project Spring The senior project is a year-long independent study intended for students who choose to work in teams of two or more. Work begins in fall, but enrollment is in spring when a double grade is recorded. Projects include engineering design, defined as devising a system, component, or process to meet desired needs. Groups develop their own topic or select a faculty proposed topic. Groups create a work plan and select an adviser. A written progress report is expected at the end of the fall term. Students submit a written final report and make an oral presentation at the end of the spring term. Instructed by: L. Martinelli MAE 455 Optical and Photonic Systems for Environmental Sensing (See ECE 455) Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University