Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Astrophysical Sciences Faculty Chair Michael A. Strauss Associate Chair Eve C. Ostriker Director of Undergraduate Studies Neta A. Bahcall Professor Neta A. Bahcall Gáspár Áron Bakos Amitava Bhattacharjee Adam S. Burrows Christopher F. Chyba Bruce T. Draine Jo Dunkley Nathaniel J. Fisch Robert J. Goldston Jeremy J. Goodman Jenny E. Greene Hantao Ji David J. McComas Eve C. Ostriker Felix I. Parra Diaz Stewart C. Prager Eliot Quataert Anatoly Spitkovsky Michael A. Strauss Romain Teyssier Edwin L. Turner Joshua N. Winn Associate Professor Matthew W. Kunz Assistant Professor Peter M. Melchior Associated Faculty Frans Pretorius, Physics Suzanne T. Staggs, Physics Paul J. Steinhardt, Physics Robert J. Vanderbei, Oper Res and Financial Eng Lecturer with Rank of Professor Samuel A. Cohen Ilya Y. Dodin Gregory W. Hammett Richard P. Majeski Hong Qin Allan H. Reiman William M. Tang Lecturer Philip C. Efthimion William R. Fox Jong-Kyu Park Yevgeny Raitses Visiting Lecturer with Rank of Professor Matias Zaldarriaga Visiting Lecturer Michael D. Lemonick For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Department of Astrophysical Sciences offers an outstanding program for astrophysics majors with the flexibility to accommodate students with a broad range of interests. Many of our majors plan to continue in graduate school in astrophysics. For students with career goals in other areas such as science education, science policy, space exploration, as well as law, medicine, finance, and teaching, we offer a flexible choice of courses and research projects. The department covers all major fields in astrophysics -- from planets, to black holes, stars, galaxies, quasars, dark matter, dark energy, and the evolution of the universe from the Big Bang to today. The relatively small size of the department provides an informal, flexible, and friendly setting for students. The department is known for providing strong and supportive mentorship to all students, for cutting-edge independent research done by students for their JPs and theses, as well as for the warm and amiable atmosphere. Full accessibility to all faculty members and to the excellent departmental facilities, including our on-campus and remote telescopes and sophisticated computer system, is provided. Prerequisites Mathematics 103, 104, 201, 202 or equivalent, and Physics103/105, 104/106, 205; and Astrophysical Sciences 204. Early Concentration Students interested in early concentration in astrophysics should contact the director of undergraduate studies. Program of Study Every student majoring in astrophysical sciences will acquire the necessary training in astrophysics by taking at least three astrophysics courses at the 300 or 400 level. In addition to these courses, departmental students will take courses in the Department of Physics that provide basic training in mechanics, quantum mechanics, electromagnetic theory, and other relevant topics. Independent Work Junior Year. In addition to the course work carried out during the junior year, each student carries out two junior independent research projects, one each semester. Each project is on a research topic of current interest, carried out under close supervision of a faculty adviser who is doing research in this area. The student will complete each term's independent work by submitting a written paper. The research projects can involve data analysis using astronomical data from our telescopes, including data from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey -- a unique three-dimensional map of the universe -- and the Hyper Suprime-Cam Survey with the Subaru telescope, as well as data from other national and international facilities such as the Hubble Space Telescope. Similarly, theoretical and computational projects in astrophysics are available. The topics, to be selected jointly by the student and his/her adviser, can range from areas such as cosmology and the early universe, to galaxy formation, large-scale structure of the universe, quasars, black holes, stars, extra-solar planets, high-energy astrophysics, and plasma astrophysics. Interdisciplinary projects, including astronomy and education, science policy, planetary science, astrobiology, space science exploration, and more are possible. Senior Year. In the senior year, in addition to course work, students carry out an extensive research project with a faculty adviser for their senior thesis. The thesis is completed by submitting the final written paper summarizing the work. There is a wide range of observational and theoretical topics available, including interdisciplinary projects as discussed above. The senior thesis work is frequently published as part of a scientific paper in an astrophysical journal. After the thesis has been completed and read by the adviser and an additional faculty member, the student presents an oral summary of the work, followed by an oral defense of the thesis. Senior Departmental Examination The thesis work and the oral defense, combined with a brief oral examination on general topics in astrophysics, compose the senior departmental examination. Preparation for Graduate Study The undergraduate program in the department provides an excellent preparation for graduate study in astrophysics, with concentrators frequently accepted at the top graduate schools in the country. Additional Courses: See Course Offerings, especially for courses offered on a one-time-only basis. Courses AST 203 The Universe Spring QRSN This specially designed course targets the frontier of modern astrophysics. Subjects include the planets of our solar system; the birth, life, and death of stars; the search for extrasolar planets and extraterrestrial life; the zoo of galaxies from dwarfs to giants, from starbursts to quasars; dark matter and the large-scale structure of the universe; Einstein's special and general theory of relativity, black holes, neutron stars, and big bang cosmology. This course is designed for the non-science major and has no prerequisites past high school algebra and geometry. High school physics would be useful. Instructed by: M. Strauss, C. Chyba, J. Dunkley AST 204 Topics in Modern Astronomy Spring QRSN The solar system and planets around other stars; the structure and evolution of stars; supernovae, neutron stars, and black holes; gravitational waves; the formation and structure of galaxies; cosmology, dark matter, dark energy, and the history of the entire universe. Prerequisites: PHY 103 or 105 and MAT 103 or 104 or equivalent. Compared to AST 203, this course employs more mathematics and physics. Intended for quantitatively-oriented students. Instructed by: J. Winn AST 205 Planets in the Universe Not offered this year QRSN This is an introductory course in astronomy focusing on planets in our Solar System, and around other stars (exoplanets). The course starts with reviewing the formation, evolution and characterization of the Solar system. Following an introduction to stars, the course will then discuss the exciting new field of exoplanets; discovery methods, basic properties, earth-like planets, and extraterrestrial life. Core values of the course are quantitative analysis and hands-on experience, including telescopic observations. This SEN course is designed for the non-science major and has no prerequisites past high school algebra and geometry. Instructed by: G. Bakos AST 207 A Guided Tour of the Solar System (See GEO 207) AST 255 Life in the Universe (also CHM 255 / GEO 255 ) Fall QRSN This course introduces students to a new field, Astrobiology, where scientists trained in biology, chemistry, astrophysics and geology combine their skills to investigate life's origins and to seek extraterrestrial life. Topics include: the origin of life on earth, the prospects of life on Mars, Europa, Titan, Enceladues and extra-solar planets, as well as the cosmological setting for life and the prospects for SETI. AST 255 is the core course for the planets and life certificate. Instructed by: C. Chyba, E. Turner, M. Hecht AST 301 General Relativity (also PHY 321 ) Not offered this year SEN This is an introductory course in general relativity for undergraduates. Topics include the early universe, black holes, cosmic strings, worm holes, and time travel. Designed for science and engineering majors. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201 and 202, OR MAT 203 and 204. Also PHY 205 or 207. PHY 304 is recommended. Instructed by: J. Goodman AST 303 Deciphering the Universe: Research Methods in Astrophysics Fall QRSN How do we observe and model the universe? We discuss the wide range of observational tools available to the modern astronomer: from space-based gamma-ray telescopes, to globe-spanning radio interferometers, to optical telescopes and particle detectors. We review basic statistics, introduce techniques used to interpret modern data sets containing millions of galaxies and stars, and describe numerical methods used to model these data. The course is problem-set-based and focused on tools needed for independent research in astrophysics. PHY103/104 or 105/106, and MAT103/104 required. AST204 and programming experience are helpful but not required. Instructed by: P. Melchior, M. Kunz AST 309 The Science of Fission and Fusion Energy (also MAE 309 / PHY 309 / ENE 309 ) Spring SEN We develop the scientific ideas behind fission and fusion energy. For fission we move from elementary nuclear physics to calculations of chain reactions, understanding how both reactors and nuclear weapons work. We examine safety and waste concerns, as well as nuclear proliferation. We look at new reactor concepts. For fusion we address the physics of confining hot, ionized gases, called plasmas. We address the control of large-scale instabilities and small-scale turbulence. We examine progress and prospects, as well as challenges, for the development of economically attractive fusion power. Instructed by: R. Goldston AST 374 Planetary Systems: Their Diversity and Evolution (See GEO 374) AST 401 Cosmology (also PHY 401 ) Not offered this year Topics include the properties and nature of galaxies, quasars, clusters, superclusters, the large-scale structure of the universe, dark matter, dark energy, the formation and evolution of galaxies and other structures, microwave background radiation, and the evolution of the universe from the Big Bang to today. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: MAT 201, 202; PHY 207, 208. Designed for science and engineering majors. Instructed by: N. Bahcall AST 403 Stars and Star Formation (also PHY 402 ) Spring SEN Stars form from the interstellar medium (ISM), and the nuclear fusion that powers stars is also the main energy source in the ISM. This course discusses the structure and evolution of the ISM and stars. Topics include: physical properties and methods for studying ionized, atomic, and molecular gas in the ISM; dynamics of magnetized gas flows and turbulence; gravitational collapse and star formation; structure of stellar interiors; radiation transport; production of energy by nucleosynthesis; stellar evolution and end states; effects of stars on interstellar environment. Prerequisites: MAT 201, 202; PHY 208, 301 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: E. Ostriker Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University