Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Near Eastern Studies Faculty Director Marina Rustow Executive Committee Michael A. Cook, Near Eastern Studies Amaney A. Jamal, Politics Eve Krakowski, Near Eastern Studies Satyel Larson, Near Eastern Studies Marina Rustow, Near Eastern Studies Daniel J. Sheffield, Near Eastern Studies Sits with Committee Sadaf Jaffer For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Near Eastern Studies provides students in any department of the University the opportunity to study the languages, history, and culture and institutions of the Near East and the broader Islamicate world. Its purpose is to enhance a liberal education and to offer additional training for students who plan a career in those areas. Admission to the Program Students may enter the program through the departments of anthropology, East Asian studies, economics, history, Near Eastern studies, politics, religion, sociology, or the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs. Students from other departments who have an interest in Near Eastern studies may enter the program by special arrangements with the director. Students must meet the entrance requirements of the selected department in addition to those of the program. Program of Study The student's plan of study is guided and given coherence by an adviser and the director of the program. The specific courses are described in this site for each of the cooperating departments listed above. In general, students follow the plan of study of their department. A Princeton School of Public and International Affairs student in the program selects the Near East in the modern world as a field of concentration. The requirements of the program are as follows: Language: Students who have had no relevant language training must take at least two years of Arabic, Hebrew, Hindi/Urdu, Persian, Swahili or Turkish language as elective courses. History: All students will take at least one appropriate history course in the Department of Near Eastern Studies. Students in the Department of History will take at least two such courses. Social Sciences: All students will take at least two courses treating the Isalmicate world that are chosen from the offerings of the departments of anthropology, Near Eastern studies, politics, religion, and sociology, and the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs. Junior independent work is divided between the student's department and the program. The senior thesis is written on an Isalmicate subject under the supervision of a Near Eastern specialist in the appropriate department and the program. Students take the regular senior departmental examination given by their department, except that a portion of it deals with the Isalmicate fields studied. These examinations are described in the sections of this catalog for each department. Languages Students are encouraged to begin the study of one of the above-named languages as early as possible in order to enable them to continue it beyond the required minimum and, if desired, to offer it to meet the language requirement for the A.B. The program also encourages qualified students to enroll in summer language classes. Study Abroad The program encourages a year abroad devoted to intensive study of an appropriate regional language and society. This would count as an additional year of study, and would be spent at a university or other center in the region in question. Upon returning, the student would resume regular studies at Princeton as a member of the junior class. The program will nominate students on the basis of ability. Students of demonstrated ability who are interested in the Arab world are encouraged to apply to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad, located at the American University in Cairo and the Qasid institute in Amman, and governed by a group of universities including Princeton. For students interested in other regional languages, appropriate arrangements will be made wherever possible. Certificate of Proficiency A student who completes the requirements of the program with satisfactory standing receives a certificate of proficiency in Near Eastern studies. A student who satisfactorily completes the intervening year abroad will have this fact noted on the certificate. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University