Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Music Performance Faculty Director Michael J. Pratt Associate Director Gabriel Crouch Rudresh K. Mahanthappa Jeffrey O. Snyder Executive Committee Jane F. Cox, Lewis Center for the Arts Simon A. Morrison, Music Michael J. Pratt, Music Juri Seo, Music For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Music Performance provides an opportunity for students to study the performance of vocal or instrumental music (both jazz and classical), electronic music, and music composition in the context of a liberal arts education. It provides extensive opportunities for students to hone their skills through participation in department ensembles, recitals, studio instruction, and performance classes, and also provides a solid foundation in music history, theory, and composition. The program provides a solid foundation for students who may wish to pursue professional music training at the graduate level. Admission to the Program The two-year program is open to rising juniors who can demonstrate in an audition a high level of proficiency in a performance medium such as an orchestral instrument, piano, electronic media, voice (either solo or consort singing), and jazz (voice or instrument), or conducting; students may also be accepted into the program in music composition or electronic music by submitting a satisfactory portfolio or its equivalent. As noted below, MUS 105 is required for the certificate, and students are urged to fulfill this requirement as early as possible in their enrollment, preferably during the first year or sophomore year. If a student places out of MUS 105, then it is to be replaced with another course under the Materials and Making (M&M) list of courses. Any student who wishes to postpone MUS 105 until their senior year must obtain special permission from one of the directors. Program of Study All students in the Music Performance Program complete MUS 105 along with five additional courses. The Certificate in Music Performance also requires departmental ensemble participation, which includes being a part of either the Princeton University Orchestra, Glee Club, Chamber Choir, Jazz Ensembles, or Princeton Laptop Orchestra (PLOrk). Other faculty-led ensembles may qualify for this requirement, with the permission of the relevant performance program director. For further information about these groups, please click here (link is external). Pianists who are not a part of these groups should pursue chamber music and accompaniment projects, and will be required to account for their participation in these projects at the end of each semester. Students focus their work in the program in one of the following tracks of study, and fulfill the following requirements: Certificate in Performance in voice, vocal consort singing, orchestral instruments, piano conducting, or jazz instruments or voice. Two performance courses (for instance, MPP 213, 214, 216, 215, 219) One year of studio instruction (enrolling in MPP 298-299 for one course credit) Two additional courses in Materials and Making A major performance project given in the senior year (usually a recital) Composition-focused Certificate in Performance MUS 106 Two additional courses from the Materials and Making category (see a partial list of M&M courses) (link is external) Two 300-level Courses in Composition (for a complete list of currently offered courses, please click here (link is external). A composition developed as a major performance project under the supervision of a faculty advisor. Students also have access to private composition lessons with Princeton University graduate students. Electronic Music-focused Certificate in Performance One Materials and Making Course Two 200-level (or higher) Music Courses Two 300-level Electronic Music Courses. These include MUS/COS 314, MUS 316, & MUS315 A senior project in the form of software/hardware development, instrument design, or electronic music composition. Students also have access to private composition lessons with Princeton University graduate students. Students are also expected to participate in the Princeton Laptop Orchestra (PLOrk). Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill the program requirements receive a certificate upon graduation. Courses MPP 213 Projects in Instrumental Performance Fall/Spring LA Instrumental chamber music class of the standard repertory of the 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th and 21st centuries. Preparation for performance of ensembles. Each ensemble's repertoire will be determined in consultation with the instructors during the first week of classes. Instructed by: Staff MPP 214 Projects in Vocal Performance (also MTD 214 ) LA Guides students in extended projects in performance. Prerequisite: instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff MPP 215 Projects in Jazz Performance Fall LA A performance course that focuses on the development of style, concept, and repertoire in the jazz idiom. Students are coached by faculty in extended projects in performance. Course will be taught by Jazz Pianist Angelica Sanchez. Instructed by: A. Sanchez MPP 216 Techniques of Conducting LA This course will focus on: 1) the development of competency in conducting technique, 2) verbal and non-verbal communication in rehearsal, 3) the study of choral repertoire of various styles and genres, emphasizing analysis and interpretation and 4) the development of good rehearsal strategies. Instructed by: G. Crouch MPP 219 Opera Performance (also MTD 219 ) LA Vocal and instrumental students will rehearse and perform complete operas or evenings of select opera scenes in Richardson Auditorium with full orchestra. Instructed by: G. Crouch MPP 231 Princeton University Steel Band Fall/Spring LA The PU Steel Band course will focus on the history and performance practice surrounding the steel drum band and its traditional musics from Trinidad and Tobago. The repertoire will be chosen from traditional music from the Caribbean (Calypso and Soca) as well as other contemporary works from the United States. Instructed by: J. Quillen Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University