Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of French and Italian Faculty Chair Thomas A. Trezise Associate Chair Pietro Frassica Director of Undergraduate Studies Christy N. Wampole Director of Graduate Studies André Benhaïm Professor David M. Bellos André Benhaïm Göran Magnus Blix Pietro Frassica Gaetana Marrone-Puglia F. Nick Nesbitt Efthymia Rentzou Thomas A. Trezise Associate Professor Katie Chenoweth Simone Marchesi Volker Schröder Christy N. Wampole Assistant Professor Flora Champy Associated Faculty April Alliston, Comparative Literature Bridget Alsdorf, Art and Archaeology David A. Bell, History M. Christine Boyer, Architecture Jeff Dolven, English Wendy Heller, Music Daniel Heller-Roazen, Comparative Literature Jhumpa Lahiri, Lewis Center for the Arts Pedro Meira Monteiro, Spanish & Portuguese University Lecturer Christine M. Sagnier Senior Lecturer Anna Cellinese Florent Masse Lecturer Sandie P. Blaise Daniele De Feo Elisa Dossena Susan L. Kenney Johnny Laforêt Murielle M. Perrier Raphael J. Piguet Sara Teardo Carole Marithe Trévise Society of Fellows in the Liberal Arts Celia L. Abele For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Department of French and Italian offers a liberal arts major designed to give students a thorough grounding in the language, literature, and culture of one or more of the subjects it teaches, seen as independent disciplines or in combination with other languages and cognate subjects. Its courses provide practical instruction in the French and Italian languages; the literatures and cultures of France and Italy in all periods, from medieval to contemporary; and literature in French written in other parts of Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas. Students are encouraged to complement their courses in French and/or Italian with related and varied courses in other literatures, art history, history, political science, sociology, comparative literature, or other humanities subjects. In addition to serving as the focus for an education in liberal arts, the French and Italian concentrations can be the basis for graduate or professional study. In mostly small classes and seminars, allowing extensive student/teacher interaction, students also become equipped to take up careers in such areas as journalism, business, law, government service, and international affairs. For non-majors, the department offers a rich set of language courses, from introductory to very advanced. It also offers a popular certificate program, allowing the study of French and Italian to be combined with concentration in history, architecture, English, politics, or any other subject available at Princeton. Information and Departmental Plan of Study The French Language Program. Students who scored a 5 on the AP exam, a 760 on the SAT subject test, a 7 on the higher-level IB test, or a grade of A on the British A-level exam, through 2019, have fulfilled their language requirements, do not need to take the placement test, and are eligible for an FRE 200+ class. However, due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 virus, students who received a 760 on the SAT subject test or AP5 after 2019 still need to take the Departmental Placement Test in order to confirm their advanced placement. Students will only be awarded credit for the AP exam if they pass the departmental placement test, which also has to be confirmed with an interview with the Placement officer, Dr. Murielle Perrier. Students who wish to continue a language begun in secondary school must have their proficiency measured either by a College Board score or by a placement test administered prior to course registration. Placement will depend on previous training and proficiency. The normal program for beginners seeking a basic mastery of French is the sequence 101, 102, 107, which satisfies the University's language requirement. Normally students electing a beginner's course in any language will receive credit only if two terms are completed. Students showing particular gifts in 101 may be admitted to the accelerated, double-credit spring course, 102-7, which also satisfies the University's language requirement. Students with advanced placement in French will be placed in either 103 or 105 and will proceed to either 107 or 108 to satisfy the University language requirement. They also may be placed directly into 108. Students who have successfully completed 107 cannot take 108. Course credit in 107 or 108 is also available through approved summer courses abroad (see Study and Work Abroad below). Funding may be available for selected and committed students. Students must pass a placement test upon their return to satisfy the language requirement. The Italian Language Program. Students who scored a 5 on the AP exam, a 760 on the SAT subject test, a 7 on the higher-level IB test, or a grade of A on the British A-level exam, through 2019, have fulfilled their language requirements, do not need to take the placement test, and are eligible for an FRE 200+ class. However, due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 virus, students who received a 760 on the SAT subject test or AP5 after 2019 still need to take the Departmental Placement Test in order to confirm their advanced placement. Students will only be awarded credit for the AP exam if they pass the departmental placement test, which also has to be confirmed with an interview with the Placement officer, Dr. Anna Cellinese. Students who wish to continue a language begun in secondary school must have their proficiency measured either by a College Board score or by a placement test administered prior to course registration. Placement will depend on previous training and proficiency. The normal program for beginners seeking a basic mastery of Italian is the sequence 101, 102, 107, which satisfies the University's language requirement. Normally students electing a beginner's course in any language will receive credit only if two terms are completed. Students showing particular gifts in 101 may be admitted to the accelerated, double-credit spring course, 102-7, which also satisfies the University's language requirement. Students with advanced placement in Italian will be placed in 107 to fulfill the University language requirement. Course credit in 107 is also available through approved summer courses abroad (see Study and Work Abroad below). Funding may be available for selected and committed students. Students must pass a placement test upon their return to satisfy the language requirement. All questions concerning placement and summer study are handled by the Director of the relevant language program. Advanced Placement For information about advanced placement, see the French and Italian language programs. Prerequisites The minimum requirement for admission to the department is successful completion of the language sequence (FRE 107 or 108; ITA 107 or 108), or equivalent qualification. Students are encouraged to complete at least one advanced-language course (FRE 207, 207F or 208; ITA 207I, 208) prior to admission, or shortly thereafter, and may also count one such course toward the concentration. It is further recommended that students complete at least one more 200-level course (such as FRE 211, 215, 217, 221, 222, 224, 225 or ITA 208, 209, 220, 225) before enrolling in a 300-level. Concentrators who plan to participate in one of the certificate programs, such as African Studies, African-American studies, European Cultural Studies, Latin American Studies, or Gender and Sexuality Studies, must also satisfy the prerequisites of that program. Early Concentration Qualified students are encouraged to begin departmental concentration in the sophomore year. Early concentration gives students more time to begin independent work and preparation of the senior thesis; it also makes a semester or junior year abroad more feasible. Program of Study All students are expected to include one advanced language course (FRE 207, 307, 407; ITA 207, 307) in their subject(s) of concentration. For concentrators in French in the classes of 2021 and beyond, the Junior Seminar (FRE 398), is mandatory. Any two of the following courses can count for course credit for departmental requirement: FRE 207, 208, 211, 215, 217, 221, 222, 224, 225; ITA 207, 208, 209, 220, 225. Courses taught in the department place varying emphases on language, literary history and interpretation, aesthetics and literary theory, and cultural and intellectual history. Students are therefore able to pursue courses of study that are consistent with their own interests. To complement this individualized approach to students' plans of study, the department offers four distinct tracks within the concentration in French and/or Italian: Track 1. CONCENTRATION IN ONE LANGUAGE, LITERATURE, AND CULTURE Students concentrate in French or Italian. Eight upper-division courses are counted towards concentration. At least five of these must be in the language and subject of concentration. Up to two of the five departmental courses may be taken at the 200-level (but FRE 207 and 208, or ITA 207 and 208, cannot both be counted). Up to three of the eight may be cognate courses approved by the Director of Undergraduate Studies (DUS) and drawn from other sections of the Department or from other humanities and social science subjects. Track 2. CONCENTRATION IN TWO LANGUAGES, LITERATURES, AND CULTURES Students intending to combine work in French or Italian with another language, civilization, and culture normally take a minimum of eight upper-division courses: five in French or Italian (one of which may be a cognate), and three in the other relevant language. Up to two of the five departmental courses may be taken at the 200-level (but FRE 207 and 208, or ITA 207 and 208, cannot both be counted). Track 3. CONCENTRATION IN FRENCH OR ITALIAN AND ANOTHER FIELD Students intending to combine work in French or Italian and another related field normally take a minimum of eight upper-division courses: five in the relevant language and literature (one of which may be a cognate), and three in the other field. For example, students specializing in French or Italian and History, Politics, or Art and Archaeology, might take appropriate courses in those departments, such as HIS 345, 350, 351, or 365; POL 371, 372, OR 381; or ART 319, 320, or 333. Up to two of the five departmental courses may be taken at the 200-level (but FRE 207 and 208, or ITA 207 and 208, cannot both be counted). Track 4. CONCENTRATION IN FRENCH OR ITALIAN AND THE CREATIVE ARTS This track is designed for students wishing to combine work in French or Italian and a creative art, such as theater, music, dance, painting, film, and creative writing. Upon approval by the Director of Undergraduate Studies, the student would normally take a minimum of eight upper-division courses: five in the relevant language and literature and three in the field related to the art of interest. Up to two of the five departmental courses may be taken at the 200-level (but FRE 207 and 208, or ITA 207 and 208, cannot both be counted). In some cases, an original work of creation (paintings, prose, or poetry...), or of performance (theater...), may substitute for the Senior Thesis, but not for one of the two Junior Papers. In these cases, students will be required to also submit a substantial critical work of at least 6,000 but no more than 10,000 words (25-35 pages), in which they will position and discuss their creative work in relation to the historical and cultural context of the language in question. Important Note: Any upper-level course taught in English will require all written work to be completed in French or Italian in order to count toward the concentration. Independent Work Junior Papers. At the time of entering the department, and in all cases no later than spring of the sophomore year, students should discuss their likely area of interest with the Director of Undergraduate Studies in order to make the attribution of junior advisers as appropriate as possible. The adviser will be assigned at the beginning of junior year. Students should get in touch with their Junior Adviser and plan regular meetings. In consultation with their adviser, students will also choose the language in which they will draft their paper. Responsibility for making and keeping these arrangements falls on the student. The first junior paper, written in the fall semester, should be about 4,000 words. The second junior paper, written in the spring semester, should be between 5,000 and 8,000 words. Both junior papers may be written in English, in which case a three-page summary in the relevant language must be provided. If the paper is written in the relevant language, a three-page summary in English is required. Students following tracks 2, 3 or 4 may write one junior paper in one of their two subjects of concentration, and one in the other. In preparing their papers students should conform to the principles specified in the University's instructions for the writing of essays. Formatting should consistently follow either the Modern Language Association Handbook or The Chicago Manual of Style. Senior Thesis. As the culmination of their independent work, senior students write a thesis on an approved topic. Late in their junior year, students will discuss possible areas of interest with the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Topics chosen in the past have ranged across the field of French, Francophone, and Italian studies, from linguistic problems and literary techniques to close textual analysis to thematic and cultural study. Students primarily interested in culture and civilization have written on art, on political and economic issues, on education, and on a variety of social questions. For students following tracks 2, 3, and 4, joint supervision may be arranged. The senior thesis is a major commitment of a student's time and energy, and the most important yardstick for choosing a topic is willingness to spend many hours immersed in that particular set of texts or problems. Concentrators in French and/or Italian who are also earning certificates should consult with their advisers about selecting a suitable thesis topic. The senior thesis may be written in English, in which case a three-page summary in the relevant language must be provided. If the thesis is written in the relevant language, a three-page summary in English is required. Senior theses should be between 15,000 and 20,000 words. Senior Departmental Examination The examination, taken in May of the senior year, is designed to test aspects of the student's entire program of study in the department. A list of required and recommended readings is provided for each of the languages and literatures taught in the department, and guides students in preparing for the written examination. The format of the examination is as follows: 1. Written Component (three hours) in class, including: (a) A sight translation. This exercise will consist of the translation of a short prose text from French or Italian into English. The resulting translation should reflect the linguistic command and stylistic sophistication expected from a reasonably proficient speaker of French or Italian. For concentrators following Track 2, and combining French and Italian, the original text will be given in the dominant language. (b) An essay written in the language of specialization. Students will choose one topic out of three culture/literature questions. Topics will be based on the reading lists and course offerings. 2. Oral Presentation (30 minutes). A brief (10-15 minutes) oral presentation, in the language of concentration (French or Italian), followed by a discussion. The content of the presentation will be determined and prepared by the student in concert with his/her adviser, and may reflect any aspect of the student's own general intellectual and academic experience in the department. It may therefore stem from the senior thesis, but also largely refer to the overall course of study achieved in the subject of concentration. The examining committee will be constituted by at least two permanent faculty of each section. Note: In order to better prepare for the comprehensive examination, students are strongly encouraged to include either FRE 307 or ITA 307 in their departmental course work. Study and Work Abroad The department strongly encourages its concentrators and certificate students to spend as much time as they can in any country where the language(s) they study is (are) widely spoken. There are several ways of doing this within the four-year undergraduate degree: by study abroad for one or two semesters; by summer study abroad; or by obtaining summer work or an internship abroad. Junior Semester/Junior Year Abroad. Students planning to spend a semester or their whole junior year abroad should seek advice from the Director of Undergraduate Studies and from relevant faculty in choosing a suitable program of study. Further assistance is available from the Office of International Programs. Departmental and University approval is required. Grades awarded by overseas institutions for courses that are recognized in lieu of Princeton courses are not included in the computation of departmental honors. Juniors who are abroad in the fall semester must take the junior seminar FRE 398 in the fall of their senior year. Students studying abroad for one or two semesters are not exempted from independent work requirements. The responsibility for consulting with advisers, as well as for meeting all normal deadlines, lies with the student. Students who complete a semester abroad may normally count two of the course units completed abroad as departmentals. Students must complete the program abroad to the standard required by the overseas institution. Summer Language Study. The department has a special relationship with the Institut International de Langue IS Aix-en-Provence, which offers intensive four-week language courses in French at various levels, as well as with the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa, where select students of Italian can take a four-week intensive course while living on the SNS campus. The department is able to provide financial support to a small number of students in these programs each year. It also maintains ties with the Bryn Mawr College summer programs held in Avignon, in French language, literature, art, and civilization (including social, political, and economic institutions). See the Director of Undergraduate Studies if you are interested in one of these programs. Summer Work Abroad. Princeton-in-France is a long-established summer work program that selects students who qualify linguistically to take on the responsibilities of a paying summer job or internship in France. Travel grants and salary supplements are available to students who receive financial aid. Announcements will be made early in the fall concerning a November information meeting about the program. The application deadline is early December. Information about other placements and internships abroad may also be obtained from the director of international internships in the Office of International Programs. Certificate in Language and Culture Admission. The certificate in language and culture program is open to undergraduates in all departments. Students should consult the Director of Undergraduate Studies by the beginning of the junior year. Ordinarily, students concentrating in language and literature departments, including comparative literature, will be eligible for the certificate in language and culture provided that: (a) the linguistic base for the language and culture certificate is different from the linguistic base of the concentration; and (b) the work required for the language and culture certificate does not duplicate the requirements of the major. Students pursuing area studies certificates may earn the certificate in language and culture provided that: (a) the courses they elect to satisfy the requirements of the area studies program are different from those they elect to satisfy the requirements of the language and culture certificate program; and (b) they submit a piece of independent work in addition to the independent work that satisfies the requirements of the area studies program. Application forms are available from the departmental office located in 303 East Pyne and on the FIT website. A separate application must be completed for each language in which a certificate will be pursued. Plan of Study. A certificate in language and culture is available in French and Italian and involves satisfactory completion of the following requirements: 1. A minimum of four departmental courses in the relevant language, linguistics, literature, or culture, excluding courses that do not have a language prerequisite. At least two of these courses must be at the 300 level (or higher). Up to two of these courses may be taken at the 200 level, but FRE 207 and 208, or ITA 207 and 208, cannot both be counted. At the discretion of the Director of Undergraduate Studies, a student may substitute one course satisfactorily completed in a departmentally approved program of study abroad, or one course taken in summer. A 200-level course is a prerequisite for taking 300-level courses in French or Italian. Please note: Any French or Italian course taught in English will require all written work to be completed in French or Italian in order to count toward the concentration. 2. Independent Work. This requirement can be satisfied in one of several ways: (a) through a substantial paper on a topic agreed upon with the student's appointed adviser; (b) through a substantial paper growing out of one of the courses taken to fulfill the Certificate requirement (this paper will be in addition to the work required in the course; the subject and scope of this paper will be agreed upon with the student's appointed adviser); or (c) with the agreement of the student's home department, a student may submit a junior independent work (JP) or Senior Thesis that satisfies the requirements of both the home department and the Department of French and Italian. A JP or Senior Thesis of this sort should be based in substantial part on language sources, and it should display competence in the language for which the student is requesting certification. Students interested in this option should consult our Director of Undergraduate Studies as early as possible to ensure that the paper or thesis will satisfy the Certificate requirements. Papers of types (a) and (b) are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 words in length. Students are urged to write them in the appropriate language. Alternatively, they may submit the independent work in English together with a 700 to 1,000 word summary in the language. Students submitting a junior paper or a senior thesis in lieu of independent work [in line with option (c) above] must also submit the summary in the language. Courses FRE 101 Beginner's French I Fall This class develops the basic structures and vocabulary for understanding, speaking, writing, and reading in French. Classroom activities foster communication and cultural competence through comprehension and grammar exercises, skits, conversation and the use of a variety of audio-visual materials. Prerequisites: Princeton French Language Placement test. Instructed by: Staff FRE 102 Beginner's French II Spring The main objective of this course is to enable you to achieve intermediate communication proficiency in French. All four skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing will be actively practiced in realistic communicative situations, through a variety of activities designed to help you strengthen newly acquired vocabulary and grammatical structures. You will learn to talk about events and people, construct narratives in French and develop reading and writing skills that will be a foundation for literacy in the target language. There is a wide use of authentic material from France and the Francophone world throughout the course. Instructed by: Staff FRE 1027 Intensive Intermediate and Advanced French Spring FRE 1027 is an intensive double course designed to help students develop an active command of the language. Focus will be on reading and listening comprehension, oral proficiency, grammatical accuracy, and the development of reading and writing skills. A solid grammatical basis and awareness of the idiomatic usage of the language will be emphasized. Students will be introduced to various Francophone cultures through readings, videos, and films. Prerequisite: FRE 101 and permission of instructor. Five 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff FRE 103 Intensive Beginner's and Intermediate French Fall/Spring FRE 103 is an intensive beginning and intermediate language course designed for students who have already studied French (typically no more than 2-3 years). Covering in one semester the material presented in FRE 101 and FRE 102, this course prepares students to take FRE 107 the following semester. FRE 103 is designed to develop the skills of listening, reading, and writing in French in a cultural context using authentic materials. Classroom activities include comprehension and grammar exercises, conversation, skits, and working with a variety of audio-visual and online materials. Prereq: Appropriate score on PU French Language Placement Test. Instructed by: Staff FRE 105 Intermediate French Fall The main objective of this course is to develop your listening, speaking and writing skills, while allowing you to explore contemporary French-speaking societies. It offers a thorough review of French grammar and a wide range of communicative activities chosen to improve proficiency and give practice of newly acquired linguistic material. The course will build your confidence in French while giving you a foundation for the understanding of French-speaking cultures and exposing you to their rich literary and artistic productions. A wide range of authentic material will be offered, including films. Prerequisite: See Course Offerings Instructed by: Staff FRE 107 Intermediate/Advanced French Fall/Spring The main objective of this course is to examine what it means to communicate in a foreign language while helping students strengthen their linguistic skills and gain transcultural and translingual competence. Students will reflect on differences in meaning through the study of diverse cultural modules, including stereotypes, slang, advertisements, Impressionist art, Occupied France, current events, and French and Francophone literary texts and films. FRE 107 is not open to first-year undergraduates in fall only. Prerequisites: FRE 102 or FRE 103, or special permission. Instructed by: Staff FRE 108 Advanced French Fall/Spring FRE 108 is an intermediate advanced course. It will take you on a journey through various periods of French history and culture and offer an opportunity to reflect on important questions at the center of contemporary debates. Examples include: the role of the State in the shaping of the nation, the organic revolution, the role of education in our society, etc. We have selected a wide variety of materials (films, videos, music, newspaper articles and literary texts) and carefully incorporated them into the curriculum so you will develop the ability to communicate and gain understanding of French and Francophone cultures and societies. Instructed by: Staff FRE 207 Studies in French Language and Style Fall/Spring An interdisciplinary course proposing the study of language, culture, and French and Francophone literatures organized around the theme "Visions fantastiques". Includes the study of different genres and mediums on topics including fairy tales and folk tales, utopias and dystopias, science fiction, and folly, dreams and the surreal. The course offers a review and reinforcement of advanced grammatical structures and aims to improve written and oral expression through the study of texts. Prerequisites: FRE 107, FRE 108, or placement based on the Princeton French Language Placement test. Instructed by: Staff FRE 211 French Theater Workshop (also THR 211 ) Fall LA FRE/THR 211 will offer students the opportunity to put their language skills in motion by exploring French theater and acting in French. The course will introduce students to acting techniques while allowing them to discover the richness of the French dramatic canon. Particular emphasis will be placed on improving students' speaking skills through pronunciation and diction exercises. At the end of the semester, the course will culminate in the presentation of the students' work. Prerequisites: FRE 108 or equivalent. FRE 207 or 208 recommended as a co-requisite. Instructed by: F. Masse FRE 215 France Today: Culture, Politics, and Society Fall CDSA An intensive discussion-based seminar, designed to integrate linguistic and cultural learning. We will examine contemporary debates on important cultural, social and political issues, allowing you to gain enhanced cultural understanding and knowledge while honing your skills. Topics include the promises of the "Thirty Glorious Years", the social transformations of the sixties and seventies (family life, women's rights, etc.); as well as the challenges brought by the post-colonial period and globalization: immigration, social exclusion and inequalities, rise of the far-right nationalism, problems in the "banlieues" and debates on secularism. Instructed by: C. Sagnier FRE 217 Paris Live(s) (also EPS 217 ) LA A study of Paris as urban space, object of representation, and part of French cultural identity. Topics include Paris in the Ancien Régime; Revolutionary and Napoleonic Paris; the transformation of Paris in the 19th century; Paris as a site of European art and literature; modern and multicultural Paris in the 1900s; and challenges in the new millennium. Prerequisite: FRE 207 or permission of instructor. One 90-minute lecture, one 90-minute preceptorial. Instructed by: A. Benhaïm FRE 221 The Rise of France: French Literature, Culture, and Society from the Beginnings to 1789 Fall HA This course is designed to give a historical overview of Early Modern France while providing advanced language training. Studying period documents, as well as literary and artistic material, we will examine the complex four-century period know as "Ancien Régime", during which France experienced major changes in its social and political structure: a series of civil wars, the rise of a centralized government, deep shifts in social hierarchies, and the milestone event of the French Revolution. Topics include: courtly love, the Wars of Religion, the Enlightenment, the French Revolution and terror. Prerequisites: FRE 107, FRE 108, or equivalent. Instructed by: F. Champy FRE 222 The Making of Modern France: French Literature, Culture, and Society from 1789 to the Present Spring LA This course examines the major historical and cultural developments that have shaped France since the Revolution. By studying a series of classic texts, important films, paintings, and essays, we will undertake an interdisciplinary tour through two centuries of French cultural history, addressing issues such as nationhood, colonialism, democracy, and consumer society. The focus will be on the relations between artistic renovation, social change, and historical events. Prerequisites: FRE 107, FRE 108, or equivalent. FRE 207 recommended as a co-requisite. Instructed by: Staff FRE 224 French Literature: Approaches to the Language of Literary Texts Fall LA This course is meant to introduce students to great works of French literature from a range of historical periods, and to provide them with methods for literary interpretation through close reading of these texts. The course syllabus is organized around common themes and generic categories. This course is invaluable preparation for more advanced and specialized 300-level literature courses. Classroom discussion and free exchange encouraged. Prerequisites: FRE 107 or FRE 108 or permission of instructor. Course conducted entirely in French. Instructed by: E. Rentzou FRE 307 Advanced French Language and Style Fall/Spring To improve spoken and written French through attentive study of French grammatical and syntactic structures and rhetorical styles, with a variety of creative, analytical and practical writing exercises, and reading of literary and non-literary texts. Course conducted in French. Prerequisites: A 200-level French course or permission of instructor. Instructed by: Staff FRE 313 Contemporary French Civilization LA This course will examine the cultural and political events knows as May '68, with a focus on the historical and political context that contributed to its development as one of the watershed events of modern French history. We will study May '68 from a range of perspectives, including film and photographic representations, as well as its historical, sociological, artistic, and philosophical dimensions. Special focus in the second half of the course on 1968 is in a global context, addressing this world changing moment in sites such as Prague, Mexico, Brazil, China, Germany, Italy, US, etc. Instructed by: F. Nesbitt FRE 319 Language, Power and Identity CDSA This course is an intensive discussion-based seminar which offers an introduction to sociolinguistics, or the study of language as a social phenomenon. Through readings, films, and documentaries, we will explore contemporary debates related to language, culture, politics, identity, and ideology in the Francophone world. The course includes a series of guest speakers for the discussion of Francophone case studies. Past speakers were from Morocco, Québec, Louisiana, Republic of Benin, La Réunion, and the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie. Instructed by: C. Sagnier FRE 327 Tales of Hospitality: France, North Africa, and the Mediterranean (also COM 357 ) EM An exploration of the concept of hospitality, individual and collective, in French, Mediterranean, and Maghrebi (i.e., North African: Arab, Berber, and Jewish) cultures. Draws on materials from literature and the arts, politics and law, philosophy and religion. Issues studied include immigration, citizenship, alienation, and, more generally, the meaning of welcoming a stranger. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. One 90-minute lecture, one 90-minute preceptorial. Instructed by: A. Benhaïm FRE 330 Landmarks of French Culture (also AFS 330 ) LA An interdisciplinary study of places, periods, persons, or questions that helped define French cultural identity, from its origins to the present. Areas of study could include courtly love; gothic art; the Enyclopedia; the Belle Epoque; the Figure of the Intellectual from Zola to Simone de Beauvoir; the sociocultural revolution of May 1968; colonization, its discontents, and its aftermaths; France in the age of globalization; Franco-American relations; etc. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff FRE 331 French Renaissance Literature and Culture LA Readings from the works of Rabelais, the Pléiade poets, Marguerite de Navarre, Montaigne, and d'Aubigné in the light of contemporary artistic, political, and cultural preoccupations. Themes will include the rhetoric of love, education, humanism, recurrent mythologies, and utopias. Two 90-minute classes. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff FRE 332 Topics in the French Middle Ages and Renaissance LA The continuities of French culture and its preeminence over much of Europe from its 11th-century beginnings through the 16th century. Emphasis on medieval and Renaissance literary works (in modernized versions) in their relationship to topics such as "love'' (fin'amor), saintliness, national identity, humanism, and so on. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or permission of the instructor. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff FRE 341 The Classical Age LA This course proposes a literary exploration of the French 17th century, a period that produced many "classics" of world literature, from the comedies of Molière and the fables of La Fontaine to the tales of Perrault. We will study these works both in their original historical context and through modern adaptations and interpretations, in order to assess the reasons for their survival and continued relevance. Some of the central themes are: love and marriage, passion and duty, self and society, truth and fiction, heroism and beastliness. Prerequisite: A 200-level French course or permission of instructor. Instructed by: V. Schröder FRE 351 The Age of Enlightenment Fall LA What is the Enlightenment? This course investigates the era of change and radical thought that precipitated the French Revolution. Far from stereotypes about "Enlightenment ideology", we will explore how the Enlightenment opened up spaces for critique, generating new ideas and values that challenged the traditional authorities of the Ancien Régime. Our readings will exemplify the richness of the moral, political, and philosophical debates that divided 18th-century France, focusing on the role of the philosopher, the place of science in society, rethinking social education, religion and atheism. Prerequisites: See Course Offerings. Instructed by: F. Champy FRE 352 Topics in 17th- and 18th-Century French Literature LA Topics will range from single authors and major texts (for example, the Encyclopedie) to literary genres and questions of culture (preciosite, comedy and/or tragedy, historiography, epistolary writing, etc.). Prerequisite: FRE 207 or equivalent. Course conducted in French. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff FRE 353 The Old Regime: Society and Culture in France, 1624-1789 LA The age of French political and cultural hegemony is characterized by the construction of the modern state, the imposition of strict social discipline, and the rationalization of large areas of human behavior. These processes will be studied in political and philosophical writings, plays, novels, poems, and memoirs. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff FRE 357 Literature, Culture, and Politics (also TRA 357 ) LA Literary texts represent and often question relations of power and cultural norms, but as a form of knowledge, literature is itself implicated in power relations. Topics range from the work of a writer or group of writers who composed both fiction and political theory or commentary to the function of censorship and of literary trials. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. One 90-minute lecture, one 90-minute preceptorial. Instructed by: Staff FRE 362 The 19th-Century French Novel LA Close readings of landmark novels from nineteenth-century France by Balzac, Stendhal, Hugo, Flaubert, Zola, Huysmans, Gide, Verne, and Constant. What course did the modern novel chart between realism and naturalism, romantic disenchantment and fin-de-siècle decadence, engaged art and aesthetic detachment, national history and private life? How did the novel reflect, shape, and map this revolutionary period in French history? Topics to be highlighted: formal innovation, realism, social critique, theories of the novel, the reading public, and print culture. Prerequisite: a 200-level French course or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff FRE 363 The 20th-Century French Novel LA A study of major themes, forms, and techniques in modern fiction. Close analysis of works by Proust, Gide, Céline, Sartre, Camus, Sarraute, Duras, Robbe-Grillet, and Condé. The nouveau roman and experiments in contemporary fiction will be examined as well as the cultural, moral, and political problems of our times. One 90-minute lecture, one 90-minute preceptorial. Prerequisite: a 200-level French course or instructor Instructed by: Staff FRE 364 Modern French Poetry LA Postromantic poetry, including works by Baudelaire, the symbolists (Verlaine, Rimbaud, Mallarmé), such modernists as Valéry, Apollinaire, and the surrealists. Special emphasis is placed on close textual analysis, as well as on symbolist, surrealist, and contemporary poetics. Two 90-minute seminars. Prerequisite: a 200-level French course or instructor Instructed by: Staff FRE 365 French Theater LA Plays by Molière, Corneille, Racine, Beaumarchais, Marivaux, Hugo, Feydeau, Jarry, Claudel, Giraudoux, Anouilh, Sartre, Genet, Ionesco, and Beckett, along with consideration of mise en scène, techniques of acting, theories of Artaud, and evolution of such traditions as théâtre de moeurs, boulevard comedy, and theater of the absurd. Two 90-minute classes. Prerequisite: a 200-level French course or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff FRE 366 French Fiction in Translation LA Innovations in the theory and practice of French narrative from the 1850s to the present, considered in cultural, historical, and intellectual context. Works by Flaubert, Proust, Gide, Céline, Camus, Sarraute, Yourcenar, and others will be read in English translation. Prerequisite: a 200-level literature course or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: T. Trezise FRE 367 Topics in 19th- and 20th-Century French Literature and Culture (also ECS 367 ) LA Topics will range from the oeuvre and context of a single author (for example, Balzac, Baudelaire, or Beckett) to specific cultural and literary problems (modernism and the avant-garde, history as literature, women's writing). Prerequisite: a 200-level French course or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff FRE 371 World Literatures in French LA A survey of the literature of decolonization in the Francophone world. The focus will be on the invention of a critical and militant literature in 1950's and 60's North and West Africa, the Caribbean, and Viet Nam. Texts will include poetry, essays, novels, and films. Prerequisite: 200-level French class or permission of instructor. Instructed by: F. Nesbitt FRE 391 Topics in French Cinema (also VIS 347 ) LA Major movements and directors in French and French-language cinema. Topics may include: early history of the cinematographe; the Golden Age of French film; Renoir, Bresson, Tati; the "New-Wave"; French women directors of the 1980s; adaptation of literary works. Instructed by: Staff FRE 401 Topics in French Literature and Culture LA Issues pertaining to French literature and/or culture that transcend chronological boundaries. The specific content of the course will change each time it is offered. Possible topics include: French Autobiographical Writings, The Idea of Nationhood in France, The French Intellectual, Satire and Humor in France. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in French or instructor's permission. One three-hour seminar. Instructed by: Staff FRE 403 Topics in Francophone Literature, Culture, and History (also LAS 423 ) Fall LA This course will study the interrelation of slavery and capitalism in the francophone Caribbean, from the Haitian Revolution to the present. The course will examine a series of classic works that contest French Caribbean colonialism and slavery, from the perspective of the historical transition from late imperialist feudalism to industrial and post-industrial capitalism. Writers addressed will include CLR James, Karl Marx, Aimé Césaire, Suzanne Césaire, Eric Williams, Edouard Glissant, and Maryse Condé. Instructed by: F. Nesbitt FRE 407 Prose Translation (also TRA 407 ) LA A practical investigation of the issues affecting translation between English and French. Weekly exercises will offer experience of literary, technical, journalistic and other registers of language. Discussion will focus on the linguistic, cultural and intellectual lessons of translation seen as a practical discipline in its own right. Prerequisite: FRE 307 or equivalent level of proficiency in French. Instructed by: D. Bellos ITA 101 Beginner's Italian I Fall To develop the skills of speaking, understanding, reading and writing Italian. The main emphasis is on oral drill and conversation in the classroom. Aspects of Italian culture and civilization are integrated in the course. In fall 2021, the Italian Language Program will launch a new digital portfolio that will serve as students' textbook. Through this new medium, students will be exposed to a more dynamic mode of language acquisition. Instructed by: Staff ITA 102 Beginner's Italian II Spring Further study of Italian grammar and syntax with increased emphasis on vocabulary, reading, and practice in conversation. Skills in speaking and writing (as well as understanding) modern Italian will also be further developed. Students will deepen the study of grammatical functions through the analysis of Italian culture and civilization. Prerequisite: ITA 101 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: Staff ITA 1027 Intensive Intermediate and Advanced Italian Spring Italian 1027 is an intensive double-credit course designed to help students develop an active command of the language by improving upon the five skills of speaking, listening, reading, writing and cultural competency in the interpretative, interpersonal, and presentational modes. The course emphasizes communication and grammatical structures through use of various forms of texts (literary, artistic, musical, cinematographic, etc.) in order to refine students' literacy. Prerequisite: Successful performance in ITA 101 and permission of instructor. Five 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff ITA 107 Advanced Italian Fall This course analyzes Italian culture and cultural changes through products such as newspaper articles, essays, comic books, music, film, food, and visual artifacts in connection with Italian history and society. Italian 107 is intended to provide students with tools for communicating effectively in Italian in an informal and formal context, to move students along the proficiency spectrum toward a more advanced language level, and to promote a global awareness and cross-cultural understanding of contemporary Italian life and culture. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian. Prerequisite: ITA 102 or instructor's permission. Five classes. Instructed by: Staff ITA 207 Studies in Italian Language and Style Fall This course explores crucial topics-such as landscapes, beauty, migration, and travel-that define Italian literature. Through the analysis of materials from different sources and genres (literature, cinema, art, design, journalism) students will acquire a deeper understanding of Italian cultural history, and its present and future trajectory. Particular emphasis will be given to the refinement of the writing process. On the intercultural level, students will conduct task-based activity to compare, contrast and challenge the main ideas acquired in the course vis à vis their own cultural identity. Three 50-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff ITA 208 Introduction to Italy Today This course is designed to familiarize the student with major features of contemporary Italy and its culture. Its purpose is to develop the student's ability to communicate effectively in present-day Italy. The course emphasizes Italian social, political, and economic institutions, doing so through the analysis of cultural and social differences between Italians and Americans in such everyday concerns as money, work and leisure. Prerequisite: ITA 107 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: P. Frassica ITA 220 Italian Civilization Through the Centuries Fall LA This course is designed to give an overview of pivotal moments in Italian culture, such as the relationship between Church and Empire in the Middle Ages, Machiavelli's political theory during the Renaissance, and the rise and fall of Fascism in the 20th century. Through the examination of the most relevant intellectual, historic and artistic movements and their main geographical venues, students will be able to acquire a comprehensive understanding of the development of Italian history and civilization. Prerequisite: Italian 107 or instructor's permission. Instructed by: P. Frassica ITA 225 Music and Lyrics: Italy in the Eyes of its Pop Singers LA Working at the crossroads of American influences and the tradition of political songs, Italian cantautori merge popular appeal and literary sophistication. For at least three generations, their songs have provided an engaged soundtrack to Italy's turbulent social, political and cultural transformations in the post-WWII years. As lyrics on the page, as music to be listened to, and as performances recorded in video, Italian canzoni d'autore are part of Italian history and identity today. Prerequisite: ITA 107 or permission of instructor. This course is taught in Italian. Instructed by: S. Marchesi ITA 302 Topics in Medieval Italian Literature and Culture LA Considered by many the greatest scholar of his age, a successful rival to Dante, the revered teacher of Boccaccio, Petrarch bequeathed to posterity the most beautiful sonnets ever written in the Florentine vernacular. In the course, we will study the "Canzoniere", his collection of lyric poetry, a book which shaped the language of love in the European Renaissance, and a sample from his "Trionfi". The texts will be analyzed in relation to their historical and cultural context and for the impact they will have on modern European Literature. Prerequisite: One 200-level ITA course or permission of instructor. Instructed by: S. Marchesi ITA 303 Dante's 'Inferno' (also MED 303 ) LA Intensive study of the Inferno, with major attention paid to poetic elements such as structure, allegory, narrative technique, and relation to earlier literature, principally the Latin classics. Course conducted in English in a highly interactive seminar format. Prerequisites: One 200-level ITA course or permission of instructor required. Instructed by: S. Marchesi ITA 306 The Italian Renaissance: Literature and Society LA This course will introduce students to the basic trends and problems of Renaissance literature as the main source of our civilization. The major literary figures of the 16th-century Italian revival (such as Machiavelli, Leonardo, Galileo, Castiglione, Michelangelo, etc.) will be studied in relation to their time, the courts or the cities where they lived, and their seminal contributions to modern Europe culture including works of visual art, theater, and good living. Prerequisite: a 200-level Italian course or instructor's permission. Instructed by: P. Frassica ITA 307 Advanced Language and Style LA Intensive practice of written and spoken Italian through close analysis of grammatical and syntactic structures, literary translation, and the stylistic study of representative literary works from the Middle Ages to the present. Focus on rhetorical structures and on Italian linguistic change. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in Italian or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. Instructed by: Staff ITA 308 Topics in 20th-Century Italian Literature LA Topics will range from the study of a single author (such as Pirandello, Montale, Pavese, D'Annunzio) to the investigation of specific literary and poetic problems. One three-hour seminar. Prerequisite: ITA 107, ITA 207I, ITA 208 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: P. Frassica ITA 309 Topics in Contemporary Italian Civilization (also AFS 309 ) Fall LA The evolution of Italian contemporary civilization through the study of historical, sociopolitical, and cultural topics. The approach will be interdisciplinary; each year a different topic will be selected and studied as portrayed in representative samples of slides, films, and pertinent reading material. One-hour lecture, two-hour precept. Prerequisite: a 200-level Italian course or instructor's permission. Offered in alternate years. Instructed by: P. Frassica ITA 310 Topics in Modern Italian Cinema (also VIS 443 ) HA An introduction to Italian cinema from 1945 to the present. Through an interdisciplinary approach, the course will focus on sociopolitical and cultural issues as well as on basic concepts of film style and technique. Specific topics will change from year to year, and prerequisites will vary. No knowledge of Italian is required to enroll. One 90-minute lecture, one 90-minute precept, and one film showing. Instructed by: G. Marrone-Puglia ITA 311 Topics in 19th-Century Italian Literature (also COM 379 ) LA Topics will range from the study of a single author (such as Leopardi, Manzoni, Verga) to the thematic, artistic, and cultural analysis of either a genre or a literary movement (such as Romanticism, Verismo). One three-hour seminar. Prerequisite: a 200-level Italian course or instructor's permission. Instructed by: G. Marrone-Puglia ITA 312 Fascism in Italian Cinema (also VIS 445 ) HA This course, conducted in English, is a study of Fascism through selected films from World War II to the present. Topics include: the concept of Fascist normality; Racial Laws; the role of women and homosexuals; colonialism and the opposition of the intellectual left. Films include: Bertolucci's The Conformist, Fellini's Amarcord, Rossellini's Rome Open City, Rosi's The Truce, Benigni's Life is Beautiful, and Wertmüller's Seven Beauties. The approach is interdisciplinary and combines the analysis of historical themes with an in-depth cinematic reading of the films. Instructed by: G. Marrone-Puglia ITA 313 Marxism in Italian Cinema (also VIS 446 ) LA A study of the influence of Marxist ideology on major Italian directors from the Cold War to the present. Representative films include: Bertolucci's The Last Emperor, Visconti's The Leopard, Pasolini's Teorema, Wertmuller's Seven Beauties, Pontecorvo's The Battle of Algiers. The approach will be interdisciplinary and will combine the analysis of historical and political themes with a cinematic reading of the films. One lecture, one two-hour preceptorial, one film screening. Instructed by: G. Marrone-Puglia ITA 401 Seminar in Italian Literature and Culture (also THR 408 ) Fall SA Investigation of a major theme or author, with special attention to formal structures and intellectual context. Topics may range from the medieval chivalric tradition in such Renaissance masterpieces as Ariosto's Orlando Furioso to a reading of the writings of Primo Levi as these examine the issue of the annihilation of the personality. Prerequisite: a 200-level course in Italian or instructor's permission. Instructed by: G. Marrone-Puglia Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University