Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in East Asian Studies Faculty Director Thomas D. Conlan Executive Committee He Bian, History Amy B. Borovoy, East Asian Studies Janet Y. Chen, History Steven Chung, East Asian Studies Thomas D. Conlan, East Asian Studies Thomas W. Hare, Comparative Literature G. John Ikenberry, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Martin Kern, East Asian Studies Paize Keulemans, East Asian Studies Federico Marcon, East Asian Studies James M. Raymo, Sociology Anna M. Shields, East Asian Studies Brian R. Steininger, East Asian Studies Stephen F. Teiser, Religion Atsuko Ueda, East Asian Studies Cheng-hua Wang, Art and Archaeology Andrew M. Watsky, Art and Archaeology For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in East Asian Studies is an interdepartmental plan of study directed by representatives of the cooperating departments--anthropology, art and archaeology, comparative literature, East Asian studies, economics, history, politics, religion, and sociology--as well as the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs. It provides an opportunity for students who plan to major in the humanities, social sciences, or other disciplines to simultaneously pursue the study of East Asian language and culture. The program's purpose is to educate internationally minded men and women with basic competence in an Asian area as well as to enhance the student's understanding of Western civilization through perspectives gained from the study of the non-Western world. The student's work is supervised by the appropriate representative of a cooperating department in consultation with the East Asian studies program director. For the purposes of this program, East Asia is defined as those areas where Chinese, Korean, or Japanese is the dominant language. Students pursuing the program certificate are encouraged to take advantage of intensive summer language programs and of the numerous opportunities for study or travel in Asia, including an intervening year abroad. A limited amount of scholarship aid for this purpose is available. Applications for summer funding and a list of approved centers in East Asia can be found on the program s website; deadlines usually fall in late December or January. Students contemplating an intervening year of study should aim to complete at least two years' study of the relevant language before the junior year or earlier and should consult with the program director. Admission to the Program Students must satisfy the established requirements for admission to one of the cooperating departments, or to some other department with whose plan of study this interdepartmental program may, by special arrangement, be combined. Application materials should be filed in the East Asian studies program office by the senior thesis deadline in early May of the applicant's senior year, but preferably earlier, by the end of the fall semester of the senior year. Program of Study Students enrolled in the program must complete eight one-term courses in East Asian studies. At least two of these must be language courses at the second-year level or higher; no more than four of the eight courses may be language courses. Applicable language and cognate courses are listed in the East Asian studies section of this announcement; successful completion of at least one 200-level East Asian studies content course is required. Additional courses, including those taken abroad, may count toward the certificate, but must be approved in advance by the program office. In addition to the coursework, the student will submit a paper dealing with an area of East Asia, for which the use of East Asian-language sources is strongly recommended. The student may submit the senior thesis or junior paper or substitute another substantial piece of original research that meets the same standards of relevance to East Asia and use of East Asian-language sources. Essays, book reports, or papers submitted to satisfy course requirements are not acceptable. A length of about 25 pages or more is expected. The program director must approve the proposed substitution. Certificate of Proficiency A student who has met the requirements of the program and of the cooperating department and has maintained satisfactory standing will receive a certificate of proficiency in East Asian studies. Interested students are advised to contact the program office. For the most-current information, see the program's website. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University