Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Neuroscience Faculty Director of Undergraduate Studies Elizabeth Gould Director of Graduate Studies Jonathan W. Pillow Associated Faculty William Bialek, Physics Elizabeth R. Gavis, Molecular Biology Alan Gelperin, Princeton Neuroscience Inst Coleen T. Murphy, Molecular Biology Joshua W. Shaevitz, Physics Diana I. Tamir, Psychology Teodora Z. Todorova, Building Services For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The neuroscience certificate program is offered by the Princeton Neuroscience Institute and is designed for undergraduates with an interest in the brain but pursuing a concentration in another subject area. In the past, students from a wide range of majors--including engineering, economics, chemistry, art history, English, and music-- have successfully completed the neuroscience certificate program. Students in the neuroscience certificate program will be prepared to meet the entry requirements of many graduate schools in neuroscience, as well as molecular biology or psychology. Program Requirements Students are admitted to the program by filling out an enrollment form that can be found here. Students must complete the enrollment form no later than the first semester of their senior year. Students in the program must complete as prerequisites either NEU 200 Functional Neuroanatomy or Introduction to Neuroscience or NEU 201 Fundamentals of Neuroscience, along with NEU 202 Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience. Although either will satisfy a prerequisite for the neuroscience certificate, only NEU 201 will count as a prerequisite for the concentration in neuroscience. Students who take NEU 200 and later decide to concentrate in neuroscience will still be required to take NEU 201 (and NEU 200 will count as a NEU elective). Therefore, students who are undecided about whether to pursue a neuroscience concentration versus a certificate are strongly encouraged to take NEU 201. In addition to the two prerequisites, all students are expected to take at least four neuroscience electives that span 3 out of 4 subject areas. These areas include 1) molecular/cellular/disease, 2) neural computation, 3) systems and circuits, and 4) social and cognitive neuroscience. Students should consult the NEU electives website for a complete list of possibilities. View list of NEU courses. Note: Cross-listed NEU courses will not count twice in the elective total. Courses can only be used one time and in one elective category. Certificate of Proficiency Students who officially enroll in the certificate program and fulfill all the requirements of the program will receive a certificate in neuroscience upon graduation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University