Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Faculty Chair Catherine A. Peters Director of Undergraduate Studies Ian C. Bourg (acting) (fall) Director of Graduate Studies Amilcare M. Porporato (acting) Professor Elie R. Bou-Zeid Michael A. Celia Maria E. Garlock Peter R. Jaffé Denise L. Mauzerall Reed M. Maxwell Glaucio H. Paulino Catherine A. Peters Amilcare M. Porporato Anu Ramaswami Z. Jason Ren James A. Smith Mark A. Zondlo Associate Professor Sigrid M. Adriaenssens Branko Glisic Ning Lin Claire E. White Assistant Professor Ian C. Bourg Reza Moini Associated Faculty Luc Deike, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Lars O. Hedin, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Marcus N. Hultmark, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Michael G. Littman, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Forrest M. Meggers, Architecture Satish C. Myneni, Geosciences Guy J.P. Nordenson, Architecture Tullis C. Onstott, Geosciences Bess Ward, Geosciences Gerard Wysocki, Electrical & Comp Engineering Lecturer Matteo B. Bertagni Saverio Perri Thomas P. Roddenbery Thomas Underwood Visiting Professor Deborah Popper Frank Popper Visiting Associate Professor Powell Draper Visiting Lecturer Michael Hopper For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study Requirements for study in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering follow the general requirements for the School of Engineering and Applied Science and the University. The student's course of study is planned in consultation with the director of studies and the academic adviser and requires a year-long thesis, which counts as two courses. The CEE curriculum is sufficiently flexible to provide opportunities for students to pursue certificate programs across the University, and to do study-abroad in the junior year. Program of Study The department offers five tracks: architecture and engineering, environmental engineering, geological engineering, structural engineering, and engineering and the liberal arts. In the first year, students should complete the mathematics basic science, computing, and writing requirements common to all B.S.E. programs. At the end of the first year, the student declares CEE as a major and selects one of the tracks. Course requirements include engineering science courses, engineering design courses, a senior thesis, and program electives. For all but the non-ABET accredited tracks, there are additional math and science requirements that are normally satisfied by taking MAE 305 Mathematics in Engineering, ORF 245 Fundamentals of Engineering Statistics and GEO 203 Fundamentals of Solid Earth Science. In total, a student's program of study must include a minimum of fourteen engineering courses, with the exception of students in the non-ABET accredited tracks. The selection of a track provides a guide in the selection of program electives. A student's program electives must provide a coherent sequence in the student's area of interest. Approval is based on agreement from the advisor and the director of studies. For a list of pre-approved electives, consult the CEE Academic Guide (The Yellow Book). In addition, all candidates for the B.S.E. degree are required to satisfy the general University and School of Engineering and Applied Science requirements. Architecture and Engineering: Structural Focus In the structures-focus option, the requirements include a strong emphasis on civil and environmental engineering. This track is designed for students who intend to become practicing engineers and may go to graduate school in architecture or engineering. This track is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET (www.abet.org) under the program in civil engineering. This track has architecture course requirements beyond the normal requirements in civil and environmental engineering. Engineering science requirements (eight courses): CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids or MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics CEE 262B Structures and the Urban Environment CEE 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering, or CEE 302 Practical Models for Environmental Systems, or CEE 304 Environmental Engineering and Energy, or CEE 306 Hydrology CEE 312 Statics of Structures CEE 361 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering CEE 365 Soil Mechanics Select one “A-E recommended” Engineering Course from list Track Specific Requirements (four Courses) ARC 203 Intro. to Architectural Thinking ARC 204 Intro to Architectural Design (studio) or ARC 205 Interdisciplinary Design Studio Select two “Architecture-Engineering” Courses from list Engineering design requirements (two courses): CEE 366 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures CEE 461 Design of Large-Scale Structures: Buildings Independent Work (two courses): CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Program elective requirements (one or more courses): Students in this track must take one more program elective and it must be an engineering course. Architecture and Engineering: Architecture Focus In the architecture-focus option, the requirements include a strong emphasis on architecture theory, history, and practice. This track is designed for students planning to do graduate work in architecture or to practice engineering in consultation with architects and planners. Students choosing this option do a senior thesis under the direction of advisers from both the School of Architecture and the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Engineering science requirements (six courses): CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids or MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics CEE 262A Structures and the Urban Environment CEE 312 Statics of Structures or CEE 361 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering ARC 311 Building Science and Technology: Building Systems ARC 374 Computational Design or CEE 463 A Social and Multi-Dimensional Exploration of Structures Track Specific Requirements (six Courses) ARC 203 Intro. to Architectural Thinking ARC 204 Intro to Architectural Design (studio) or ARC 205 Interdisciplinary Design Studio ARC 403 Topics History &Theory of Architecture ARC 404 Advanced Design Studio ARC 350 Junior Studio (Fall) ARC 351 Junior Studio (Spring) Engineering design requirements (two courses): CEE 366 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures CEE 461 Design of Large Scale Structures: Buildings Independent Work (two courses) CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Program elective requirements (two courses): Students in this program must take two or more program electives, normally selected from a pre-approved list of courses in CEE, architecture and art. Environmental Engineering. This track is designed for students who wish to pursue a career related to the environment, whether in engineering, law, business, public policy, hydrological, or health and epidemiological sciences, and for students who wish to continue on to advanced graduate studies in environmental engineering (or a related earth science discipline). Course work in environmental engineering focuses on analysis of a large range of environmental problems as well as engineering design of innovative solutions to these problems. This is done through a combination of course work in hydrological sciences, environmental sciences, and geology, applied to different environmental settings, and environmental engineering design. The environmental engineering track is closely linked to the Environmental Studies Program of the High Meadows Environmental Institute. This track is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET (www.abet.org) under the program in Civil Engineering. Students normally take the following courses: Engineering science requirements (eight courses): CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics CEE 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering CEE 302 Practical Models for Environmental Systems or CEE 304 Environmental Engineering and Energy CEE 305 Environmental Fluid Mechanics CEE 306 Hydrology CEE 308 Environmental Engineering Lab CEE 311 Global Air Pollution CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering or CEE 365 Soil Mechanics Engineering design (two courses): CEE 471 Introduction to Water Pollution Technology CEE 477 Engineering Design for Sustainable Development Independent Work (two courses): CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Program elective requirements (three courses): No more than one program elective can be at the 200 level. For the environmental engineering track, at least one of the program electives must be an engineering course. Geological Engineering. Geological engineering is the application of science to problems and projects involving Earth, its physical environment, Earth materials, and natural resources. The curriculum, offered in cooperation with the Department of Geosciences, is specially designed for the student who wishes to build upon the first-year and sophomore mathematics and engineering courses as a basis for studies in the earth sciences. Typical areas of concentration are water resources, engineering geology, earth resources, geotechnical engineering, geophysics, geochemistry, and atmospheres and oceans. This track is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET (www.abet.org) under the program in Civil Engineering. In addition to the general requirements of the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the following courses are required: Engineering science requirements (eight courses): CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics CEE 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering CEE 305 (GEO 375) Environmental Fluid Mechanics or CEE 306 Hydrology CEE 311 (GEO 311) Global Air Pollution CEE 308 Environmental Engineering Laboratory or GEO 300 Summer Course in Geologic Field Methods CEE 365 Soil Mechanics or CEE 370 (GEO 370) Sedimentology (field course) CEE 460 Risk Analysis Track Specific Requirements (select one course): CEE 360 (GEO 361) - Physics of the Ocean and Atmosphere GEO 363 Environmental Geochemistry GEO 366 - Current and Future Climate CEE 417 (GEO 417) - Environmental Microbiology GEO 418 - Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry CEE 424 (GEO 424) - Seismology GEO 430 - Climate and The Terrestrial Biosphere GEO 441 - Computational Geophysics GEO 470 - Environmental Chemistry of Soils GEO 499 - Environmental Change, Poverty and Conflict Engineering design requirements (two courses): CEE 471 (GEO 471) Introduction to Water Pollution Technology CEE 477 Engineering Design for Sustainable Development Independent Work (two courses): CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Program elective requirement (three courses): No more than one program elective can be at the 200 level. For the geological engineering track, two of the three required program electives must be engineering courses. Structural Engineering. Structural engineering is concerned with the analysis and design of civil engineering structures with an emphasis on buildings, bridges, stadiums, dams, and foundations. Particular emphasis is given to the design of these structures to resist earthquake and wind loads. The program is designed to meet the needs of students who are interested in continuing to advanced graduate studies or who plan to go into engineering practice and consulting. This track is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET (www.abet.org) under the program in Civil Engineering. Its basic aim is the preparation of flexible and innovative graduates who can address the novel problems of modern engineering. Students in this program have the chance to interact directly with some of the best design and consulting companies in structural engineering. Students normally take the following courses: Engineering science requirements (eight courses): CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids MAE 223 Modern Solid Mechanics CEE 262B Structures and the Urban Environment CEE 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering, or CEE 302 Practical Models for Environmental Systemsor, or CEE 304 Environmental Engineering and Energy CEE 306 Hydrology, or CEE 305 Environmental Fluid Mechanics CEE 312 Statics of Structures CEE 361 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods Any two from: CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering, or CEE 365 Soil Mechanics, or CEE 308 Environmental Engineering Laboratory, Engineering design requirements (two courses): CEE 366 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures CEE 461 Design of Large-Scale Structures: Buildings Independent Work (two courses): CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Program elective requirements (three courses): For the structural engineering track, three program electives are required and at least one must be an engineering course. Engineering and the Liberal Arts. This track is designed for students who wish to obtain an engineering background as a foundation for a wide range of careers, such as medicine, law, public policy, visual arts, or engineering studies in materials, ethics, or history. Course work in this track should integrate engineering courses in a coherent manner with the topic of interest to the student. The track is designed to be rigorous, yet allow for a wide degree of flexibility in the course of studies. All students in engineering and the liberal arts are required to take a minimum of six courses in engineering sciences that stress design and analytical methods in civil and environmental engineering. The program electives should form a coherent sequence of at least four courses in the student's area of interest, and junior independent research is strongly recommended as a program elective. This is followed by the senior thesis. In the junior independent research and senior thesis, students should relate their topics of interest to engineering problems. Students normally take the following courses: Engineering Science Requirement (six courses): A minimum of six CEE courses, of which at least three should be at the 300 level or above. At least one of the 300-level courses has to have a laboratory component. Program Electives (seven courses): Seven program electives are required and these should include a coherent sequence of at least four courses in the student's area of interest, three of which should be at the 300 level or above. Independent Work (two courses): CEE 478 Senior Thesis (Counts as two courses) Collectively the selection of engineering science requirements and electives should form a coherent program of study, which needs to be approved by the advisor. At least eight of these courses must be at the 300 level or above. Study Abroad Study abroad can be used to enhance and diversify the educational experience of departmental majors. Courses taken during study overseas may be pre-approved for credit as departmental requirements by the departmental Director of Studies. Study abroad has served as a valuable option for junior independent work and in providing research material for the senior thesis. Students considering study abroad should consult with the departmental Director of Studies as early as possible. Courses CEE 102A Engineering in the Modern World (also EGR 102A / MAE 102A ) Fall HA Lectures and readings focus on bridges, railroads, power plants, steamboats, telegraph, highways, automobiles, aircraft, computers, and the microchip. Historical analysis provides a basis for studying societal impact by focusing on scientific, political, ethical, and aesthetic aspects in the evolution of engineering over the past two and a half centuries. The precepts and the papers will focus historically on engineering ideas including the social and political issues raised by these innovations and how they were shaped by society as well as how they helped shape culture. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Instructed by: M. Littman CEE 102B Engineering in the Modern World (also EGR 102B / MAE 102B ) Fall SEL Lectures and readings focus on bridges, railroads, power plants, steamboats, telegraph, highways, automobiles, aircraft, computers, and the microchip. We study some of the most important engineering innovations since the Industrial Revolution. The laboratory centers on technical analysis that is the foundation for design of these major innovations. The experiments are modeled after those carried out by the innovators themselves, whose ideas are explored in the light of the social environment within which they worked. Two lectures, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: M. Littman CEE 105 Lab in Conservation of Art (also ART 105 / EGR 105 ) Not offered this year SEL This course examines how environmental factors (acid, rain, ice, salts, biota) damage sculpture and monuments made of stone and masonry, paintings on wood, and sculptures in bronze. It examines campus buildings that illustrate each type of damage and uses a visit to the Cloisters Museum to learn how those medieval buildings are protected. Lectures on structure and properties of materials and mechanisms of attack. Labs include quantifying water movement through stone, damage from freezing and salts, strength of mortars, protective effects of sealants and consolidants, effect of moisture on wood. Two lectures and one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: Staff CEE 205 Mechanics of Solids Fall SEN This course teaches fundamental principles of solid mechanics. Equilibrium equations, reactions, internal forces, stress, strain, Mohr's circle, and Hooke's law. Analysis of the stress and deformation in simple structural members for safe and stable engineering design. Axial force in bars, torsion in shafts, bending and shearing in beams, stability of elastic columns, strain transformation, stress transformation, combined loadings. Two lectures, one precept. Prerequisites: MAT 104, PHY 103. Instructed by: S. Adriaenssens CEE 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (also ENV 207 ) Fall SEN The course introduces the students to the basic chemical and physical processes of relevance in environmental engineering. Mass and energy balance and transport concepts are introduced and the chemical principles governing reaction kinetics and phase partitioning are presented. We then turn our focus to the applications in environmental engineering problems related to water and air pollution. Two 80-minute lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: CHM 201 and MAT 104 (can be taken concurrently) or instructor's permission. Instructed by: I. Bourg CEE 208 Mechanics of Fluids (See MAE 222) CEE 242 The Experience of Modernity: A Survey of Modern Architecture in the West (See ART 242) CEE 262A Structures and the Urban Environment (also ARC 262A / EGR 262A / URB 262A ) Spring LA Known as "Bridges", this course focuses on structural engineering as a new art form begun during the Industrial Revolution and flourishing today in long-span bridges, thin shell concrete vaults and tall buildings. Through critical analysis of major works, students are introduced to the methods of evaluating engineered structures as an art form. Students study the works and ideas of individual engineers through their basic calculations, their builder's mentality and their aesthetic imagination. Illustrations are taken from various cities and countries, demonstrating the influence of culture on our built environment. Two lectures, one precept. Instructed by: M. Garlock CEE 262B Structures and the Urban Environment (also ARC 262B / EGR 262B / URB 262B ) Spring SEL Known as "Bridges", this course focuses on structural engineering as a new art form begun during the Industrial Revolution and flourishing today in long-span bridges, thin shell concrete vaults, and tall buildings. Through laboratory experiments students study the scientific basis for structural performance and thereby connect external forms to the internal forces in the major works of structural engineers. Illustrations are taken from various cities and countries thus demonstrating the influence of culture on our built environment. Two lectures, one three-hour laboratory. Instructed by: M. Garlock CEE 304 Environmental Engineering and Energy (also ENE 304 / ENV 300 ) Not offered this year The course covers the environmental and geological engineering principles relevant to the entire energy supply chain from mining and extraction of fuels, to power production, to disposal of wastes and sequestration of greenhouse gases. Both conventional and renewable energy are considered. Students will learn the engineering principles and practices to address environmental challenges and to find the best ways to utilize earth systems to our advantage. This course is a requirement for the Geological Engineering certificate program. Two lectures. Prerequisites: CHM201 and MAT104 or permission of the instructor. Instructed by: C. Peters CEE 305 Environmental Fluid Mechanics (also GEO 375 / ENE 305 ) Fall SEN The course starts by introducing the conservation principles and related concepts used to describe fluids and their behavior. Mass conservation is addressed first, with a focus on its application to pollutant transport problems in environmental media. Momentum conservation, including the effects of buoyancy and earth's rotation, is then presented. Fundamentals of heat transfer are then combined with the first law of thermodynamics to understand the coupling between heat and momentum transport. We then proceed to apply these laws to study air and water flows in various environmental systems, with a focus on the atmospheric boundary layer. Instructed by: E. Bou-Zeid CEE 306 Hydrology: Water and Climate SEN Analysis of fundamental processes in the hydrologic cycle, including precipitation, evapotranspiration, infiltration, streamflow and groundwater flow. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisite: MAT 201, may be taken concurrently. Instructed by: J. Smith CEE 307 Water, Energy, and Ecosystems Not offered this year SEL This three-week course, offered as part of a four-course study abroad semester, takes place at Princeton Univeristy's Mpala Research Centre in central Kenya. The course will provide an introduction to the principles of hydrological sciences via the development and application of instrumentation for characterizing surface/subsurface hydrological dynamics in field settings. Lectures and field activities will address the theory of operation, design, and implementation of methods used to quantify hydrological patterns and processes. Prerequisite: MAT 201. Instructed by: Staff CEE 308 Environmental Engineering Laboratory Spring SEL Designed to teach experimental measurement techniques in environmental engineering and their interpretations. General considerations for experimental design and data analysis will be covered. Key techniques used to measure the physical, chemical and biological attributes of environmental media will be taught through various hands-on modules that cover flow and transport of contaminants in the atmosphere, hydrologic measurements of soil-moisture dynamics in response to precipitation events, and measurements of solar and wind energy resources. One three-hour laboratory, one lecture. Prerequisites: CEE207 and CEE306 or Permission of Instructor. Instructed by: P. Jaffé CEE 311 Global Air Pollution (also CHM 311 / GEO 311 / ENE 311 ) Not offered this year Students will study the chemical and physical processes involved in the sources, transformation, transport, and sinks of air pollutants on local to global scales. Societal problems such as photochemical smog, particulate matter, greenhouse gases, and stratospheric ozone depletion will be investigated using fundamental concepts in chemistry, physics, and engineering. For the class project, students will select a trace gas species or family of gases and analyze recent field and remote sensing data based upon material covered in the course. Environments to be studied include very clean, remote portions of the globe to urban air quality. Instructed by: M. Zondlo CEE 312 Statics of Structures Spring SEN Develop notions of internal forces and displacements. Instruct how to design and analyze structures. Present fundamental principles of structural analysis, determination of internal forces, deflections under the static load conditions. Introduce the bending theory of plane beams and the basic energy theorems. Develop the theory of the first order for continuous girders, frames, arches, suspension bridges, trusses, including both statically determinate and indeterminate structures. Present basic principles for construction of influence lines and determination of extreme influences. Two lectures, one precept. Prerequisite: CEE205.or MAE223. Instructed by: B. Glisic CEE 323 Modern Solid Mechanics (See MAE 223) CEE 334 Global Environmental Issues (also SPI 452 / ENV 334 / ENE 334 ) Fall SEN This course examines a set of global environmental issues including population growth, ozone layer depletion, climate change, air pollution, the environmental consequences of energy supply and demand decisions and sustainable development. It provides an overview of the scientific basis for these problems and examines past, present and possible future policy responses. Individual projects, presentations, and problem sets are included. Prerequisites: AP Chemistry, CHM 201, or permission of instructor. Two lectures, one precept. Instructed by: D. Mauzerall CEE 360 Earth's Atmosphere (See GEO 361) CEE 361 Matrix Structural Analysis and Introduction to Finite-Element Methods (also MAE 325 / MSE 331 ) Not offered this year QCR CEE361 presents the typically decoupled fields of Matrix Structural Analysis (MSA) and Finite Element Methods (FEM) in a cohesive framework. The first half of the semester covers the following MSA topics: derivation of truss, beam, frame, hinge elements; assembly and partitioning of the global stiffness matrix; equivalent nodal loads. The second half of the semester covers the following FEM topics: numerical approximation methods, strong and weak forms of boundary value problems, steady-state heat conduction, linear-elasticity for membranes, plates, shells. MATLAB is used for coding. Prerequisite: CEE205 or MAE223 or permission of instructor. Instructed by: Staff CEE 362 Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Not offered this year SEN Analysis of forces and deformations in structures under dynamic loads. Idealization as discrete parameter systems. Single and multiple degrees of freedom. Response analysis under free vibration, harmonic, impulsive and random dynamic loads. Time and frequency domains. Earthquake phenomena from the engineering point of view. Seismic waves and power spectra. Measurement of strong ground motion. The concepts of response spectra, structural response to earthquakes, design criteria, and seismic safety. Prerequisite: 361 or instructor Instructed by: Staff CEE 364 Materials in Civil Engineering (also ARC 364 ) Spring SEL An introductory course on materials used civil and environmental engineering. Lectures on structure and properties of construction materials including concrete, steel, glass and timber; fracture mechanics; strength testing; mechanisms of deterioration; impact of material manufacturing on the environment. Labs on brittle fracture, heat treatment of steel, strength of concrete, mechanical properties of wood. One lecture, one three-hour laboratory. Prerequisites: CEE 205 or MAE223. Instructed by: C. White CEE 365 Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering Spring The first half of the semester will cover topics on Classical Soil Mechanics: Physical and engineering properties of soils; soil classification and identification methods; site exploration; sampling; laboratory and in-situ testing techniques; shear strength; bearing capacity; earth pressure; slope stability; permeability and seepage. The second half of the semester will cover topics on Application of Soil Mechanics in Civil Engineering: Earth retaining structures; deep foundations, ground improvement; tunneling; levees; and construction and contracting implications. Prerequisite: CEE 205 or MAE223. Instructed by: R. Sandiford CEE 366 Design of Reinforced Concrete Structures Fall SEN Materials in reinforced concrete. Flexural analysis and design of beams. Shear and diagonal tension in beams. Short columns. Frames. Serviceability. Bond, anchorage, and development length. Slabs. Special topics. Introduction to design of steel structures. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisite: CEE 205. Instructed by: M. Hopper CEE 370 Sedimentology (See GEO 370) CEE 375 Independent Study Fall Independent Study in the student's area of interest. The work must be conducted under the supervision of a faculty member and must result in a final paper. Permission of advisor and instructor are required. Open to sophomores and juniors. Must fill out Independent Study form. Instructed by: B. Glisic CEE 376 Independent Study Spring Independent research in the student's area of interest. The work must be conducted under the supervision of a faculty member, and must result in a final paper. Students must obtain prior approval of a faculty member to serve as research advisor, and Hand in to E-211 E-Quad the Independent Research Proposal Project form signed by your advisor and the dept representative. Open to sophomores and juniors. Instructed by: B. Glisic CEE 417 Environmental Microbiology (See GEO 417) CEE 424 Introductory Seismology (See GEO 424) CEE 455 Optical and Photonic Systems for Environmental Sensing (See ECE 455) CEE 460 Risk Analysis Not offered this year QCR Fundamentals of probabilistic risk analysis. Stochastic modeling of hazards. Estimation of extremes. Vulnerability modeling of natural and built environment. Evaluation of failure chances and consequences. Reliability analysis. Decision analysis and risk management. Case studies involving natural hazards, including earthquakes, extreme wind, rainfall flooding, storm surge, hurricanes, and climate change, and their induced damage and economic losses. Not open to freshmen. Prerequisites: Basic probability and statistics course. Instructed by: N. Lin CEE 461 Design of Large-Scale Structures: Buildings Spring SEN This course will focus on the structural design of buildings and is open to students of engineering and of architecture who meet the prerequisites. The course will culminate in a major building design project incorporating knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work. Structural design is considered from concept development to the completion of detailed design while incorporating appropriate engineering standards and multiple realistic constraints. Open to Seniors Only. Prerequisites: both CEE 312 and CEE 366, or permission from the instructor. Instructed by: R. Garlock CEE 462 Design of Large-Scale Structures: Bridges Not offered this year SEN The design of bridges is considered from the conceptual phase up to the final design phase. The following issues are addressed in this course: types of bridges, design codes, computer modeling of bridges, seismic analysis and design, seismic retrofit design, inspection, maintenance and rehabilitation of bridges, movable bridges, bridge aerodynamics, organization of a typical engineering firm, marketing for engineering work. Several computer codes are used in this course. Prerequisite: CEE 366 or CEE 361, or instructor's permission. Instructed by: Staff CEE 463 A Social and Multi-Dimensional Exploration of Structures (also LAS 463 ) Not offered this year The class has pedagogical objectives related to the spatial relations of dimensions and time (sustainability and society). It develops the students' skills in drawing, model making, writing, oral communication, and advanced engineering analysis. The course is focused on a study of one theme that changes every year. Within each theme engineering calculations of designs will be made through advanced analyses. The social context will be studied, a site visit will be made during break week, models of a few significant works will be created and placed on display as part of a small exhibition. Prerequisites: CEE205 and CEE312 Instructed by: M. Garlock CEE 467 Design and Behavior of Steel Structures Fall Topics in the design and analysis of steel structures are covered such as geometric properties and stresses of built-up shapes, columns (including plate buckling), beams, tension members, beam-columns. Prerequisites: CEE205 and CEE312. Instructed by: P. Draper CEE 471 Introduction to Water Pollution Technology (also GEO 471 / URB 471 ) Fall SEN An introduction to the science of water quality management and pollution control in natural systems; fundamentals of biological and chemical transformations in natural waters; identification of sources of pollution; water and wastewater treatment methods; fundamentals of water quality modeling. Two lectures, field trips. Open to juniors and seniors, and graduate students only. Prerequisites: Student should have some background in chemistry and an interest in water pollution problems. Instructed by: P. Jaffé CEE 472 Hydrometeorology and Remote Sensing SEN The structure and evolution of precipitation systems are examined, including the dynamical and microphysical processes that control the spatial and temporal distribution of precipitation. The fundamentals of remote sensing of aerosols, clouds and precipitation are introduced. Related topics in hydrology and hydraulics are covered. Two lectures. Not Open to First Year Undergraduates. Instructed by: J. Smith CEE 474 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering Not offered this year SEN This course examines how cities modify their environment, with a focus on the grand urban challenges of the 21st century related to climate, water, and pollution. It starts with an introduction to the challenge of urbanization and how the population and size of cities can be quantified and modeled. We then examine heat, air and water flow in cities, focusing on how they induce urban heat islands, exacerbate floods, modify power consumption, and reduce thermal comfort. We conclude the course with an examination of how buildings and cities can be designed to be more sustainable and sensitive to their climate. Required for concentrators. Instructed by: E. Bou-Zeid CEE 477 Engineering Design for Sustainable Development (also ENE 477 ) Spring SEN This course will focus on the sustainable design of urban water infrastructure. Students will use software packages and other design tools to design water/wastewater distribution and treatment systems, including new processes that incorporate energy and resource recovery. The projects are considered from concept development to detailed design with special considerations on sustainability and resilience. Prerequisite: CEE 207 and CEE471 or equivalent with instructor's permission. Open to Seniors and Graduate students only. Instructed by: Staff CEE 478 Senior Thesis Fall/Spring A formal report on research involving analysis, synthesis, and design, directed toward improved understanding and resolution of a significant problem in civil and environmental engineering. The research is conducted under the supervision of a faculty member, and the thesis is defended by the student at a public examination before a faculty committee. The senior thesis is equivalent to a year-long study and is recorded as a double course in the spring. Instructed by: B. Glisic Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University