Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Jazz Studies Faculty Director Rudresh K. Mahanthappa Executive Committee Gavin Steingo, Music For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Immerse yourself in the vast musical and social history of jazz, establish a strong theoretical and stylistic foundation with regard to improvisation and composition, and emphasize the development of individual expression and creativity. Offerings for the Program in Jazz Studies include academic course work, performing ensembles, master classes, private study, and independent projects. We strongly encourage students to pursue the certificate to broaden their understanding of this music and its contribution to global culture. Students passionate about jazz performance are also welcome to pursue a certificate in music performance in their major instrument, while engaging in the rich offerings of the Program in Jazz Studies. The Program in Jazz Studies is open to juniors and seniors who have the appropriate background, and who are committed to studying the performance practices and rich cultural legacy of jazz. Admission to the program is by application. The number of students in the program is limited by available resources. Although enrollment is restricted to juniors and seniors, students may begin taking courses that count toward certificate requirements in their first year. Admission to the Program To qualify students are required to complete four related courses, participate in one of the department’s faculty-led jazz ensembles, and perform a recital. Program of Study One course in Jazz History: MUS 262/AAS 262 One course in Jazz Theory/Composition: MUS 311, MUS 312, or MUS 340. (Other courses with the program director's approval). One course in Jazz Performance: MPP 215. One course in Historical/Cultural Context: including non-music programs such as African American Studies, American Studies, English, History, and Sociology, as permitted by the program director. Program Requirements Jazz Ensemble Participation is required in both junior and senior years through the Creative Large Ensemble, or one of the small groups and jazz vocal ensembles. Studio Instruction Studio lessons in jazz performance from our world-renowned performance faculty are strongly encouraged and fully subsidized for jazz certificate candidates. Jazz Recital A recital must be performed in the senior year for completion of the Certificate in Jazz Studies. For more information on recital procedures and requirements, please see Policies and Procedures for Student Performances. For more information, please contact the program director. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill the requirements of the program receive a certificate of proficiency in jazz studies upon graduation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University