Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Values and Public Life Faculty Director Sandra L. Bermann Executive Committee Charles R. Beitz, Politics Sandra L. Bermann, Comparative Literature Lara M. Buchak, Philosophy Elizabeth Harman, Philosophy Melissa Lane, Politics Tania Lombrozo, Psychology Stephen J. Macedo, Politics Jan-Werner Müller, Politics Alan W. Patten, Politics Philip N. Pettit, Center for Human Values Kim Lane Scheppele, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Peter A. Singer, Center for Human Values Michael Smith, Philosophy Anna B. Stilz, Politics For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information The Program in Values and Public Life, an undergraduate interdisciplinary certificate program offered by the University Center for Human Values, focuses on modes of inquiry into important ethical issues in public life. The program helps students develop competence in pursuing such inquiries generally and supports them in applying these intellectual skills to the advanced analysis of one or more related topics. Students attaining the certificate will be equipped to bring informed discussion of values into the public sphere and to integrate a critical value perspective into their future studies and pursuits. The program is open to undergraduates of all disciplines. Admission to the Program Admission to the program requires an enrollment essay outlining the student's rationale for completing the certificate, area of interest, and plan for fulfilling the certificate requirements. Students interested in applying to the program are advised to begin to consider their interests and a tentative course of study as early as possible, which they are encouraged to do in consultation with the program director. Students will be considered for admission upon meeting the following prerequisites: submission of the enrollment essay; submission of the name of an academic referee; and a minimum GPA of 3.0 overall. We strongly recommend completing at least one of the core courses (PHI 202, SPI 370, POL 306, POL 307, POL 312 or POL 313) by the end of the sophomore year. Students are normally accepted in the second semester of their sophomore year to enter the program as juniors, and must apply by a deadline announced each spring. In exceptional cases, juniors may be accepted into the program at the Director's discretion. For more information on the Program in Values and Public Life's application process and current deadlines, please visit the program's website. Program of Study To qualify for a program certificate, students are required to complete three core courses, two thematic courses, and independent work as described below. No course counted toward the certificate may be taken P/D/F. No more than two courses used to satisfy the course requirements for the student’s concentration may also be counted toward satisfaction for the VPL course requirements. Core Courses (3 courses): Students must take one course out of each of the following three categories: (1) PHI 202 / CHV 202: Introduction to Moral Philosophy; (2) one of the following courses: SPI 370 / CHV 301 / POL 308: Ethics and Public Policy, POL 307 / CHV 307: The Just Society, POL 306 / CHV 306 / PHI 360: Democratic Theory, POL 312: The Ideal of Democracy, or POL 313 / CHV 313: Global Justice; (3) a Junior/Senior Seminar in Values and Public Life (topics change from year to year) or, if necessary, another seminar on normative issues approved by the program director. Thematic Courses (2 courses): Students must identify an area of focus and take two courses with an explicit values component related to it, chosen by the student in consultation with the program director. Some illustrative focus areas (or "themes") are: Bioethics Cognitive psychology, ethics, and public policy Democracy in theory and practice Global justice and human rights Constitutionalism and the rule of law History of thought about political justice, human rights, or some other core concept in public morality Public dilemmas in literature Ethics, religion, and theology Independent Work Students will write a senior thesis (or, in exceptional circumstances, another substantial piece of independent work) on a normative topic approved by both the director of the program and the normal procedures of the student's department of concentration. The thesis will be written in and according to the department regulations of the student's concentration. Students will be expected to participate in a non-credit bearing senior thesis colloquium convened by the program. Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill the requirements of the program receive a certificate of proficiency in values and public life studies upon graduation. Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University