Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering Faculty Chair Athanassios Z. Panagiotopoulos Director of Undergraduate Studies José L. Avalos (spring) Mark P. Brynildsen (fall) Director of Graduate Studies Christos Maravelias Professor Clifford P. Brangwynne Pablo G. Debenedetti David B. Graves Bruce E. Koel A. James Link Lynn Loo Christos Maravelias Celeste M. Nelson Athanassios Z. Panagiotopoulos Rodney D. Priestley Robert K. Prud'homme Richard A. Register Sankaran Sundaresan Associate Professor Mark P. Brynildsen Assistant Professor José L. Avalos Pierre-Thomas Brun Jonathan M. Conway Sujit S. Datta Emily C. Davidson Michele L. Sarazen Michael A. Webb Associated Faculty Mohamed S. Abou Donia, Molecular Biology Ian C. Bourg, Civil and Environmental Eng Daniel J. Cohen, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng William M. Jacobs, Chemistry Cameron A. Myhrvold, Molecular Biology Sabine Petry, Molecular Biology Stanislav Y. Shvartsman, Molecular Biology Howard A. Stone, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng Jared E. Toettcher, Molecular Biology Claire E. White, Civil and Environmental Eng Martin Helmut Wühr, Molecular Biology Lecturer Charles M. Smith Visiting Professor Hendrikus E. Van Den Akker For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study Prerequisites The first-year program in engineering or its equivalent. General Requirements In order to qualify for the B.S.E. degree in the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, a student must satisfy the requirements of the School of Engineering and Applied Science and must choose courses during the sophomore, junior, and senior years to provide a core knowledge of chemical and biological engineering and advanced knowledge in an area of concentration. The advanced science and core chemical and biological engineering courses in the sophomore and junior years provide the fundamental tools of thermodynamics, transport processes, and reactor analysis. In the spring semester of the junior year, students take a laboratory-based course that utilizes core chemical and biological engineering knowledge. In the senior year, students undertake an in-depth design analysis with state-of-the-art design and optimization tools. Students can tailor their specific interests in chemical and biological engineering by pursuing an area of concentration that culminates with a senior thesis project. The areas of concentration, reflective of the practice of modern chemical and biological engineering, include bioengineering and biotechnology; materials and product engineering; energy and environmental engineering; optimization, dynamics, and information technology; entrepreneurship and management; and science and engineering for new technologies. The program of study is accredited as a program in chemical engineering by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org. Students with special interests should consult the section on special programs and options. Total courses: 36. Departmental Requirements Chemical and Biological Engineering Core The courses listed below are required of all chemical and biological engineering majors: 245 Introduction to Chemical and Biochemical Engineering Principles 246 Thermodynamics 250 Separations in Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology 341 Mass, Momentum, and Energy Transport 346 Chemical and Biological Engineering Laboratory 441 Chemical Reaction Engineering 442 Design, Synthesis, and Optimization of Chemical Processes 451, 452 Independent Work or 454 Senior Thesis Mathematics Requirement MAE 305 Mathematics in Engineering I Chemistry Requirement CHM 201 General Chemistry I, or CHM 207 Advanced General Chemistry: Materials Chemistry CHM 202 General Chemistry II, or CHM 215 Advanced General Chemistry: Honors Course CHM 301 Organic Chemistry I: Biological Emphasis Molecular Biology Requirement MOL 214 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology Advanced Requirements Advanced Chemistry or Advanced Biology. Students may choose to take either an advanced chemistry course or an advanced biology course. The advanced courses provide a greater depth in the underlying science of chemistry and biology. The course may be any 300-level-or-above chemistry or biology course, including those cross-listed by the chemistry and molecular biology department. The approved courses are designated in the department's undergraduate handbook. Advanced Chemical and Biological Engineering. One advanced chemical and biological engineering course is also required. This can be any 300-level-or-above course (excluding independent work) offered by the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering. Societal Impact Requirement Of the seven required Humanities and Social Science electives, undergraduates in chemical and biological engineering must take at least one course in the Ethical Thought and Moral Values area (EM) Program of Study In addition to the requirements above, students are required to designate an area of concentration and take three courses from the approved lists below in that area of concentration. The senior independent work is usually undertaken within the area of concentration. In addition, students are required to take at least one course each from two of the advanced areas outside their area of concentration to provide technical diversity. ABET requires CBE students to complete a minimum of 12 engineering topic courses. This is satisfied by completing the CBE core courses (double credit thesis makes the CBE core equivalent to nine courses), School of Engineering and Applied Science computer science requirement (COS 126), and at least two program electives identified as ET on the approved list of courses in the six areas of concentration. Every course on the list that has been designated ET has been assessed to satisfy the engineering topic content requirement. ET courses can be added to the list if approved by the Undergraduate Committee based on the course syllabus and an explanation of the engineering topic content in that course by the instructor. Courses with ET designations will be re-evaluated approximately every five years to ensure that their contents continue to include engineering topics. Bioengineering and Biotechnology CBE 411/MOL 411 Antibiotics: From Cradle to Grave (ET) CBE 419 Enzymes (ET) CBE 433 Introduction to the Mechanics and Dynamics of Soft Living Matter (ET) CBE 438/MOL 438 Biomolecular Engineering (ET) CBE 439 Quantitative Physiology and Tissue Design (ET) CBE 440 The Physical Basis of Human Disease (ET) CBE 447 Metabolic Engineering (ET) CHM 440/GHP 440 Drug Discovery in the Genomics Era EEB 309 Evolutionary Biology EEB 320/MOL 330 Molecular Evolutionary Genetics EEB 325 Mathematical Modeling in Biology and Medicine EEB 327/MOL327 Immune Systems: From Molecules to Populations ENE 318/ CBE 318 Fundamentals of Biofuels (ET) GEO 417 Environmental Microbiology GEO 428 Biological Oceanography ISC 326/EEB 326/MOL 326 Human Genomics: The Past, Present, and Future of the Human Genome MAE 344 Biomechanics and Biomaterials: From Cells to Organisms (ET) MOL 340 Molecular and Cellular Immunology MOL 342 Genetics MOL 345/CHM 345 Biochemistry MOL 348 Cell and Developmental Biology MOL 410 Introduction to Biological Dynamics MOL 415 Modern Biophysics and Systems Biology MOL 433/CBE 434 Biotechnology (ET) MOL 434 Macromolecular Structure and Mechanisms in Disease MOL 435 Pathogenesis and Bacterial Diversity MOL 448/CHM 448 Chemistry, Structure, and Structure Functions of Nucleic Acids MOL 457 Computational Aspect of Molecular Biology MOL 459 Viruses: Strategy and Tactics MOL 423 Molecular Basis of Cancer NEU 201/PSY 258 Fundamentals of Neuroscience NEU 202/PSY 259 Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience NEU 408/MOL 408/PSY 404 Cellular and Systems Neuroscience NEU 437/MOL 437/PSY 437 Computational Neuroscience PSY 406 Functional Neuroanatomy PSY 407 Developmental Neuroscience QCB 455/COS 455 Introduction to Genomics and Computational Molecular Biology Entrepreneurship and Management CBE 260/EGR 260 Ethics and Technology: Engineering in the Real World (ET) CEE 334/ SPI 452/ ENV 334/ ENE 334 Global Environmental Issues (ET) CEE 460 Risk Assessment and Management (ET) CHV 331/ SPI 372 Ethics and Public Health COS 432/ECE 432 Information Security (ET) ECO 310 Microeconomic Theory: A Mathematical Approach ECO 311 Macroeconomics: A Mathematical Approach EGR 491/ ORF 491 High-Tech Entrepreneurship EGR 494 Leadership Development for Business EGR 495 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship EGR 497 Entrepreneurial Leadership GEO 366/ENV 339/SPI 451/ ENE 366 Climate Change: Impacts, Adaptation, Policy ORF 245 Fundamentals of Engineering Statistics ORF 335 Introduction to Financial Engineering ORF 435 Financial Risk Management SML 201 Introduction to Data Science SPI 373/CHV 373 Welfare, Economics and Climate Change Mitigation Policy Energy and Environmental Technology AST 309/MAE 309/PHY 309 Science and Technology of Nuclear Energy: Fission and Fusion (ET) CBE 335/ MAE 338/ ENV 335 The Energy Water Nexus (ET) CBE 421/ CHM 421 Green and Catalytic Chemistry (ET) CEE 207/ENV 207 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (ET) CEE 304/ ENE 304/ ENV 300 Environmental Implications of Energy Technology (ET) CEE 306 Hydrology (ET) CEE 308 Environmental Engineering Laboratory (ET) CEE 311/CHM 311/GEO 311 Global Air Pollution (ET) CEE 334/ SPI 452/ ENV 334/ ENE 334 Global Environmental Issues (ET) CEE 471 Introduction to Water Pollution Technology (ET) CEE 474/ENV 474 Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering - Design and Construction of Environmental Sensors (ET) CEE 477/ ENE 477 Engineering Design for Sustainable Development (ET) ENE 318/ CBE 318 Fundamentals of Biofuels (ET) ENE 410/ CBE 410/ MAE 410 Optimization for the Design and Analysis of Energy Systems (ET) ENE 414 Renewable Energy Systems (ET) ENE 431/ ECE 431/ ENV 431/ EGR 431 Solar Energy Conversion (ET) ENV 200A-F The Environmental Nexus ENV 305 Topics in Environmental Studies- Hormonally Active Pollutants GEO 360/ ENV 356 Geochemistry of the Human Environment GEO 361/ENV 361/ CEE 360 Earth's Atmosphere (ET) GEO 363/CHM 331/ENV 331 Environmental Geochemistry: Chemistry of the Natural Systems GEO 366/ENV 339/ SPI 451/ ENE 366 Climate Change: Impacts, Adaptation, Policy GEO 418/CHM 418 Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry GEO 423/CEE 423 Dynamic Meteorology (ET) GEO 424/CEE 424/ENE 425 Introductory Seismology (ET) GEO 470/CHM 470 Environmental Chemistry of Soils MAE 328/EGR 328/ENV 328 Energy for a Greenhouse-Constrained World (ET) MAE 424/ ENE 424 Energy Storage Systems (ET) MAE 427 Energy Conversion and the Environment: Transportation Applications (ET) Materials and Product Engineering CBE 415/CHM 415/ MSE 425 Polymers (ET) CBE 422/ MSE 422 Molecular Modeling Methods (ET) CBE 430/ MAE 430/ MSE 430 Squishy Engineering: Using Soft Materials to Solve Hard Problems (ET) CBE 433/ MSE 424 Introduction to the Mechanics and Dynamics of Soft Living Matter (ET) CEE 364/ ARC 364 Materials in Civil Engineering (ET) CHM 403 Advanced Organic Chemistry CHM 409 Structural Solid State Chemistry ECE 341 Solid-State Devices (ET) ECE 342 Principles of Quantum Engineering (ET) ECE 441/ENE 441 Solid-State Physics ECE 449 Materials and Solid-State Device Laboratory (ET) ECE 455/ CEE 455/ MAE 455/ MSE 455 Mid-Infrared Technologies for Health and the Environment (ET) GEO 378 Mineralogy MAE 324/ MSE 324 Structure and Properties of Materials (ET) MSE 301 Materials Science and Engineering (ET) MSE 302 Laboratory Techniques in Materials Science and Engineering (ET) Optimization, Dynamics, and Information Technology CBE 422/ MSE 422 Molecular Modeling Methods (ET) COS 217 Introduction to Programming Systems (ET) COS 226 Algorithms and Data Structures (ET) COS 302/ SML 305 Mathematics for Numerical Computing and Machine Learning COS 340 Reasoning About Computation (ET) COS 343 Algorithms in Computational Biology (ET) COS 402 Artificial Intelligence (ET) COS 424 Interacting with Data (ET) COS 485 Neural Networks: Theory and Applications (ET) EEB 355/ MOL 355 Introduction to Statistics for Biology ENE 410/ CBE 410/ MAE 410 Optimization for the Design and Analysis of Energy Systems (ET) MAE 433 Automatic Control Systems (ET) MAE 434 Modern Control (ET) ORF 245/ EGR 245 Fundamentals of Engineering Statistics ORF 307 Optimization (ET) ORF 309/ EGR 309/ MAT 380 Probability and Stochastic Systems ORF 311 Stochastic Optimization and Machine Learning in Finance ORF 363/ COS 323 Computing and Optimization for the Physical and Social Sciences ORF 409 Introduction to Monte Carlo Simulation ORF 411/ ECE 411 Sequential Decision Analytics and Modeling (ET) SML 201 Introduction to Data Science SML 305/ ECE 305/ COS 302 Mathematics for Numerical Computing and Machine Learning Science and Engineering for New Technologies Transport Phenomena MAE 306/MAT 392 Mathematics in Engineering II MAE 336 Viscous Flows (ET) MAE 423/ ENE 423 Heat Transfer (ET) Chemical Technology CBE 421/CHM 421 Green and Catalytic Chemistry (ET) CHM 302/304 Organic Chemistry II: Biological Emphasis CHM 305 The Quantum World CHM 306 Physical Chemistry: Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics CHM 403 Advanced Organic Chemistry CHM 405 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Quantum Mechanics CHM 406 Advanced Physical Chemistry: Chemical Dynamics and Thermodynamics CHM 407 Inorganic Chemistry: Structure and Bonding CHM 408 Inorganic Chemistry: Reactions and Mechanisms Engineering Physics PHY 203 Classical Mechanics A, or PHY 205 Classical Mechanics B PHY 208 Principles of Quantum Mechanics PHY 301 Thermal Physics PHY 304 Advanced Electromagnetism PHY 305 Introduction to Quantum Theory Electronic Materials Processing ECE 206/COS 306 Introduction to Logic Design (ET) ECE 208 Integrated Circuits: Practice and Principles (ET) ECE 341 Solid-State Devices (ET) ECE 342 Physical Principles of Electronic Devices (ET) ECE 441/ENE 441 Solid-State Physics The advanced chemistry or biology course requirement and the advanced chemical and biological engineering course requirement can both be satisfied by electives in the areas of concentration. Special Programs and Options. The flexibility built into the chemical and biological engineering curriculum provides an opportunity for students to obtain a thorough education in the fundamentals of chemical and biological engineering science and at the same time pursue a cognate field (a track) such as biology, business, medicine, chemistry, or physics. Students simply elect as few or as many courses in the cognate field as they desire. While some students may concentrate all their electives in a single field, others may prefer to divide their time between two tracks--for example, chemistry and the biological sciences, or physics and mathematics. The following listing suggests the many tracks available. Applied and Computational Mathematics: Elective courses in mathematics, modeling, and applications. Applied Mathematics and Computer Technology: Elective courses in statistical studies, mathematics, electrical and computer engineering, computer science, mechanical and aerospace engineering, and civil engineering and operations research. Applied Physics: Elective courses in physics, mathematics, and chemical and biological engineering. Biotechnology: Elective courses in chemical and biological engineering, molecular biology, and chemistry. Business and Finance: Elective courses in decision theory, engineering administration, and economics. Chemistry: Additional courses in chemistry and the biological sciences beyond those required in the regular program. Energy Conversion and Resources: Elective courses with emphasis on conversion of energy as given by the Departments of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Chemical and Biological Engineering, and Physics. Environmental Studies: Elective courses in ecology and evolutionary biology, molecular biology, chemistry, chemical and biological engineering, and civil and environmental engineering. Materials Science: Elective courses in materials science and engineering, mechanical and aerospace engineering, chemical and biological engineering, and civil and environmental engineering. Premedical: Elective courses in ecology and evolutionary biology, molecular biology, and chemistry. Princeton University offers several special programs called certificate programs. Unlike the tracks described above, these certificate programs have formal requirements. They are described elsewhere in this announcement (for example, see the programs in engineering physics, engineering biology, materials science and engineering, sustainable energy, and environmental studies). Courses CBE 214 Introduction to Cellular and Molecular Biology (See MOL 214) CBE 228 Energy Technologies in the 21st Century (See MAE 228) CBE 245 Introduction to Chemical and Biochemical Engineering Principles Fall SEN Application of the principles of conservation of mass and energy to the design and analysis of chemical processes. Elementary treatment of single and multiphase systems. First law of thermodynamics for closed and open systems. Steady state and transient analysis of reacting and nonreacting systems. Three lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisite: CHM 201. Instructed by: J. Avalos CBE 246 Thermodynamics Spring SEN Basic concepts governing the equilibrium behavior of macroscopic fluid and solid systems of interest in modern chemical engineering. Applications of the first law (energy conservation) and second law (temperature, entropy, reversibility) to open and closed systems. Thermodynamic properties of pure substances and mixtures. Phase equilibrium and introduction to reaction equilibrium. Introduction to the molecular basis of thermodynamics. Applications include thermodynamics of protein stability, the Earth's energy balance, energy conversion schemes, and the binding of ligands to proteins. Prerequisites: CBE 245 and MAT 201. Instructed by: M. Webb CBE 250 Separations in Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology Fall SEN Fundamental thermodynamic principles and transport processes that govern separations in biotechnology and chemical processing. Staged operations, such as distillation and chromatography, are developed based on coupling phase equilibrium with mass balances. Transport processes driven by electric fields, centrifugal fields, or hydrodynamics provide the basis for understanding ultracentrifugation, membrane process, and electrophoresis. Three lectures. Prerequisites: CBE 245 and CBE 246. CBE 341 may be taken concurrently. Instructed by: E. Davidson CBE 260 Ethics and Technology: Engineering in the Real World (also EGR 260 ) Spring EM An examination of engineering as a profession and the professional responsibilities of engineers. The ethics of engineering will be considered through case studies (e.g., automobile safety, pollution control), and the social responsibilities of engineering will be distinguished from those of science and business. Quantitative decision-making concepts, including risk-benefit analysis, are introduced and weighed against ethical considerations to compare technology options. Ethical conflicts between utilitarian theories and duty theories will be debated. Two lectures and one preceptorial. Instructed by: B. Koel CBE 305 Mathematics in Engineering I (See MAE 305) CBE 341 Mass, Momentum, and Energy Transport Fall SEN Survey of modeling and solution methods for the transport of fluids, heat, and chemical species in response to differences in pressure, temperature, and concentration. Steady state and transient behavior will be examined. Topics include fluid statics; conservation equations for mass, momentum and energy; dimensional analysis; viscous flow at high and low Reynolds number; thermal conduction; convective heat and mass transfer, correlations; diffusion and interphase mass transfer. Working knowledge of calculus, linear algebra and ordinary differential equations is assumed. Prerequisites: CBE 245, CBE 246 & MAE 305. Can take MAE 305 concurrently. Instructed by: H. Van Den Akker CBE 342 Fluid Mechanics Not offered this year Elements of fluid mechanics relevant to simple and complex fluids. Topics include macroscopic balances; derivation of differential balance equations and applications to unidirectional flows; treatment of nearly unidirectional flows through the lubrication approximation; introduction to turbulent flow; flow through porous media; capillary flows; dispersed two-phase flows; and hydrodynamic stability. Three lectures. Prerequisite: CBE 341. Instructed by: S. Sundaresan CBE 346 Chemical and Biological Engineering Laboratory Spring SEL An intensive hands-on practice of engineering. Experimental work in the areas of separations, heat transfer, fluid mechanics, process dynamics and control, materials processing and characterization, chemical reactors. Development of written and oral technical communication skills. One lecture, two three-hour laboratories. Prerequisites: CBE 246 and CBE 341 or equivalents. Instructed by: J. Nunes, R. Priestley, S. Datta CBE 351 Junior Independent Work Fall Subjects chosen by the student with the approval of the faculty for independent study. A written report, examination, or other evidence of accomplishment will be required. Instructed by: M. Brynildsen CBE 352 Junior Independent Work Spring Subjects chosen by the student with the approval of the faculty for independent study. A written report, examination, or other evidence of accomplishment will be required. Instructed by: J. Avalos CBE 415 Polymers (also CHM 415 / MSE 425 ) Fall SEN Broad introduction to polymer science and technology, including polymer chemistry (major synthetic routes to polymers), polymer physics (solution and melt behavior, solid-state morphology and properties), and polymer engineering (overview of reaction engineering and melt processing methods). Two lectures. Prerequisites: CHM 301 or CHM 337, which may be taken concurrently, and MAT 104, or permission of the instructor. Instructed by: R. Register CBE 421 Green and Catalytic Chemistry (also CHM 421 / ENE 421 ) Spring Concepts of heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysis applied to industrial processes associated with fuel refining and manufacturing of commodity chemicals and petrochemicals. Available routes for similar conversions using alternative, more sustainable feedstocks and processes will be discussed in the context of green chemistry and engineering principles. These case studies will serve as platforms to the fundamentals of heterogeneous acid and metal catalysis, including techniques of catalyst synthesis and characterization, as well as understanding of how reactions occur on surfaces. Two lectures. Prerequisite: CHM 301 organic chemistry. Instructed by: M. Sarazen CBE 432 The Cell as a Chemical Reactor Not offered this year Presents a framework for the analysis of cellular responses, such as proliferation, migration, and differentiation. Emphasis on mechanistic models of biotransformation, signal transduction, and cell-cell communication in tissues. Focuses first on unit operations of cell physiology transcription, translation, and signal transduction. Models of these processes will rely on tools of reaction engineering and transport. Process dynamics and control will then be used to analyze the regulatory structure of networks of interacting genes and proteins. Prerequisites: MOL 214 and MAE 305 or their equivalents. Instructed by: S. Shvartsman CBE 434 Biotechnology (See MOL 433) CBE 438 Biomolecular Engineering (also MOL 438 ) Fall This course will focus on the design and engineering of biomacromolecules. After a brief review of protein and nucleic acid chemistry and structure, we will delve into rational, evolutionary, and computational methods for the design of these molecules. Specific topics to be covered include aptamers, protein and RNA-based switches and sensors, unnatural amino acids and nucleotides, enzyme engineering, and the integration of these parts via synthetic biology efforts. Two lectures. Instructed by: J. Conway CBE 441 Chemical Reaction Engineering Spring SEN Stoichiometry and mechanisms of chemical reaction rates, both homogeneous and catalytic; adsorption, batch, continuous flow, and staged reactors; coupling between chemical reaction rates and mass, momentum, and energy transport; stability; optimization of reactor design. Application to environmental and industrial problems. Two lectures, one preceptorial. Prerequisites: CBE 246 and CBE 341. Instructed by: S. Shvartsman CBE 442 Design, Synthesis, and Optimization of Chemical Processes Fall SEL Introduction to chemical process flow-sheeting; process design, sizing and cost estimation of total processes; process economics; introduction to optimization, linear programming, integer programming, and nonlinear programming; heat integration methods, minimum utility cost, minimum number of units, network optimization. Two lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisites: CBE 341, CBE 346, and CBE 441. Instructed by: C. Maravelias, C. Smith CBE 445 Process Control Not offered this year A quantitative study of the principles of process dynamics and control. Dynamic behavior of chemical process elements; analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems with special emphasis on frequency response techniques and scalar systems. Two lectures. Prerequisite: MAE 305, which may be taken concurrently. Instructed by: S. Sundaresan CBE 447 Metabolic Engineering (also GHP 457 ) Not offered this year SEN Introduction to engineering metabolism. The objective of this course is to introduce students to current techniques and challenges within the field of metabolic engineering. Specific topics include introduction to metabolism, transcriptional regulation, signal transduction, flux balance analysis, and metabolic flux analysis. Designed for upper division students in engineering, chemistry, and molecular biology. Two lectures. Prerequisites: MOL 214 or equivalent. Instructed by: M. Brynildsen CBE 451 Senior Independent Work Fall A one semester study of an important problem or topic in chemical and biological engineering. Projects may be experimental, computational, or theoretical. Topics selected by the students from suggestions by the faculty. Written report required. Instructed by: M. Brynildsen CBE 452 Senior Independent Work Spring A one semester study of an important problem or topic in chemical and biological engineering. Projects may be experimental, computational, or theoretical. Topics selected by the students from suggestions by the faculty. Written report required. Instructed by: J. Avalos CBE 454 Senior Thesis Spring A full year study of an important problem or topic in chemical and biological engineering culminating in a senior thesis. Projects may be experimental, computational, or theoretical. Topics selected by the students from suggestions by the faculty. Written thesis, poster presentation, and oral defense required. The senior thesis is recorded as a double course in the spring. Departmental permission required. Instructed by: J. Avalos Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University