Jump to main content Archive Undergraduate Announcement I'm Looking For Advanced Placement (AP Credit) Auditing a Course Certificate Programs Course Load General Education Requirements Honor Code Rules and Procedures Independent Concentration Leave of Absence Policies Off-Campus Study/Classes Pass/Fail Policies Reading Period, Deans Date, Final Exams Transfer Admission Tuition, Fees, and Other Financial Matters Use space bar to activate menu; arrow keys to navigate; Escape to close; and enter to activate menu links. Search this site Home Academic Units Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Policies & Resources Academic Calendars University Administrators The Undergraduate Program Admission, Financial Aid, Fees Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Arts Program of Study for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering General Education Requirements The Undergraduate Honor System Academic Advising and Academic Resources Academic Regulations The Academic Year Reading Period, Dean's Date, and End-of-Term Work Grading Graduation and Honors Academic Standing, Leaves of Absence, and Reinstatement Special Features of the Undergraduate Program Other Resources Search Degree of Bachelor of Arts Degree of Bachelor of Science in Engineering Certificate Programs Other Programs Councils, Centers and Institutes Home › Academic Units Program in Statistics and Machine Learning Faculty Director Ryan P. Adams Peter M. Melchior (acting) Executive Committee Prateek Mittal, Electrical & Comp Engineering Peter J. Ramadge, Electrical & Comp Engineering Marc Ratkovic, Politics Mengdi Wang, Electrical & Comp Engineering Associated Faculty Amir Ali Ahmadi, Oper Res and Financial Eng Sanjeev Arora, Computer Science Yacine Aït-Sahalia, Economics Matias D. Cattaneo, Oper Res and Financial Eng Danqi Chen, Computer Science Jonathan D. Cohen, Psychology Jia Deng, Computer Science Jianqing Fan, Oper Res and Financial Eng Jaime Fernandez Fisac, Electrical & Comp Engineering Filiz Garip, Sociology Tom Griffiths, Psychology Boris Hanin, Oper Res and Financial Eng Elad Hazan, Computer Science Bo E. Honoré, Economics Niraj K. Jha, Electrical & Comp Engineering Chi Jin, Electrical & Comp Engineering Jason Matthew Klusowski, Oper Res and Financial Eng Michal Kolesár, Economics Ching-Yao Lai, Geosciences Jason D. Lee, Electrical & Comp Engineering Naomi E. Leonard, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng John B. Londregan, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Anirudha Majumdar, Mechanical & Aerospace Eng William A. Massey, Oper Res and Financial Eng Reed M. Maxwell, Civil and Environmental Eng Peter M. Melchior, Astrophysical Sciences Ulrich K. Mueller, Economics Karthik Narasimhan, Computer Science Jonathan W. Pillow, Psychology H. Vincent Poor, Electrical & Comp Engineering Yuri Pritykin, Computer Science Miklos Z. Racz, Oper Res and Financial Eng Olga Russakovsky, Computer Science Matthew J. Salganik, Sociology Amit Singer, Mathematics Mona Singh, Computer Science Bartolomeo Stellato, Oper Res and Financial Eng Brandon M. Stewart, Sociology John D. Storey, Integrative Genomics Michael A. Strauss, Astrophysical Sciences Rocío Titiunik, Politics Jeroen Tromp, Geosciences Olga G. Troyanskaya, Computer Science Robert J. Vanderbei, Oper Res and Financial Eng Mark W. Watson, Schl of Public & Int'l Affairs Sits with Committee Daisy Yan Huang Ricardo Pereira Masini For a full list of faculty members and fellows please visit the department or program website. Program Information Information and Departmental Plan of Study The Undergraduate Certificate Program in Statistics and Machine Learning is designed for students, majoring in any department, who have a strong interest in data analysis and its application across disciplines. Statistics and machine learning, the academic disciplines centered around developing and understanding data analysis tools, play an essential role in various scientific fields including biology, engineering and the social sciences. This new field of “data science” is interdisciplinary, merging contributions from a variety of disciplines to address numerous applied problems. Examples of data analysis problems include analyzing massive quantities of text and images, modeling cellular-biological processes, pricing financial assets, evaluating the efficacy of public policy programs, and forecasting election outcomes. In addition to its importance in scientific research and policy making, the study of data analysis comes with its own theoretical challenges, such as the development of methods and algorithms for making reliable inferences from high-dimensional and heterogeneous data. The program provides students with a set of tools required for addressing these emerging challenges. Through the program, students will learn basic theoretical frameworks and also leave them equipped to apply statistics and machine learning methods to many problems of interest. Admission to the Program Students are admitted to the program after they have chosen a concentration, generally by the beginning of their junior year. At that time, students must have prepared a tentative plan and timeline for completing all of the requirements of the program, including required courses and independent work (as outlined below), as well as any prerequisites for the selected courses. For enrollment, please use this form: Certificate Enrollment Application(link is external) For questions, contact us at smlcert@princeton.edu Program of Study Students are required to take a total of five courses and earn at least a B-, complete the certificate’s independent work requirement, and attend CSML's annual poster session. Course Work: One statistics course from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf is not permitted. Credit or exemptions for AP exams is not permitted). One machine learning course from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf not permitted). Three electives from the approved list. Student must receive at least a B- (pdf not permitted). Students may count at most two courses from their departmental concentration toward the certificate. With permission, advanced students may be permitted to take approved graduate-level courses. Independent Work Students are required to complete a thesis or at least one semester of independent work in their junior or senior year on a topic that makes substantial application or study of machine learning or statistics. This work may be used to satisfy the requirements of both the SML certificate program and the student's department of concentration. All work will be reviewed by the Statistics and Machine Learning Certificate committee. In May, there will be a public poster session at which students are required to present their work to other students, researchers and to the faculty. Students must adhere to submission due dates for independent work papers and poster requirements. Attendance for the poster session is mandatory. Finally, students are encouraged to attend one of the Statistics and Machine Learning colloquia on campus, including the CSML sponsored or co-sponsored seminars. For a list of required courses that will count towards the certificate, please visit our website (link is external). Certificate of Proficiency Students who fulfill all the program requirements will receive a certificate upon graduation. Courses SML 101 Reasoning with Data QCR Data-driven decision-making, research discovery, and technology development are everywhere. It is now more important than ever for individuals to understand how data are used for these purposes. This course will introduce the student to how statistical reasoning and methods are used to learn from and leverage modern data. The emphasis will be on concepts and strategies for learning from data, rather than on sophisticated mathematics. Students will be exposed to the basics of statistics, machine learning, and data science through real world problems and applications. Students will also analyze data sets using the computer. Instructed by: Staff SML 201 Introduction to Data Science QCR Introduction to Data Science provides a practical introduction to the burgeoning field of data science. The course introduces students to the essential tools for conducting data-driven research, including the fundamentals of programming techniques and the essentials of statistics. Students will work with real-world datasets from various domains; write computer code to manipulate, explore, and analyze data; use basic techniques from statistics and machine learning to analyze data; learn to draw conclusions using sound statistical reasoning; and produce scientific reports. No prior knowledge of programming or statistics is required. Instructed by: Staff SML 302 Fundamentals of Machine Learning (See COS 424) SML 305 Mathematics for Numerical Computing and Machine Learning (See COS 302) SML 306 Machine Learning with Social Data: Opportunities and Challenges (See SOC 306) SML 310 Research Projects in Data Science Fall/Spring Project-based course in which students work individually or in small teams to tackle data science and ML problems based on real datasets. We will emphasize critical thinking about experiments and large dataset analysis along with the ability to clearly communicate one's research. This course is intended to support students in developing the analytical skills necessary for quantitative independent work; students should consult with their home department about how this course could appropriately complement, but not replace, their independent work requirements. Instructed by: Staff SML 480 Pedagogy of Data Science Spring In this seminar, we will explore the pedagogy of introductory data science. Students in the seminar will be required to work as undergraduate course assistants in SML 201 -- Introduction to Data Science. SML 201 topics will be discussed in more depth in the seminar, with a view of teaching the basic material. We will discuss literature in the pedagogy of computer science and statistics. Discussion topics will include teaching programming using the functional programming paradigm, the design of the dplyr package, simulation-based inference, teaching statistics using simulation-based inference, the grammar of graphics, and causal inference. Instructed by: Staff Related Links Academic Guides and Resources Graduate School, Departments & Programs of Study Office of the Registrar, Course Information Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University