Skip to main content Skip to main site menu Office of Undergraduate Admissions Search Menu Search this site × Close the search box Search Apply to GeorgetownToggle sub-navigation Close this sub-navigation First Year Application Transfer Application International Applicant Diversity and Access Descendants Active Military and Veterans Visiting Student Program Visit GeorgetownToggle sub-navigation Close this sub-navigation Virtual and In-Person Visits Group Visits Directions to Campus Campus Virtual Tour Georgetown in Your AreaToggle sub-navigation Close this sub-navigation U.S. Visits International Visits Financial Aid College CounselorsToggle sub-navigation Close this sub-navigation Applicant Profile Info for Alumni Contact Us Close Apply to Georgetown Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation First Year Application Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Transfer Application Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation International Applicant Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Diversity and Access Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Descendants Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Active Military and Veterans Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Visiting Student Program Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Visit Georgetown Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Virtual and In-Person Visits Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Group Visits Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Directions to Campus Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Campus Virtual Tour Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Georgetown in Your Area Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation U.S. Visits Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation International Visits Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Financial Aid Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation College Counselors Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Applicant Profile Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Info for Alumni Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Contact Us Open sub-navigation Close sub-navigation Georgetown University, with its tradition of Jesuit education, a location in Washington, DC, and a distinguished community of scholars from around the world, is a vibrant place to live and learn. We are pleased you have chosen to learn more about the opportunities for undergraduate students that await you here at Georgetown. To ensure that you receive timely communication from our office, invitations to Georgetown events in your hometown area, we welcome you to join our mailing list. Applying to Georgetown APPLY NOW We believe you will find Georgetown’s application process highly personalized. Georgetown uses its own application for admission and we are able to coordinate an alumni interview for nearly all candidates. While a candidate’s academic performance is the most important criteria under consideration, accomplishments outside of the classroom, demonstrated commitment to the broader community, and personal qualities such as resiliency, motivation and ambition are certainly considered. It is these qualities that make you an individual and someone who will uniquely add to – and benefit from – the Georgetown University community. We look forward to getting to know you. Plan a Visit To experience the university’s rich environment, we invite you to gather with us online for a virtual information session and student panel. Please see the Visit Georgetown page to register for an upcoming event. Commitment to Diversity Georgetown actively seeks and recruits highly talented and motivated students from all backgrounds. The university enrolls more than 6,300 undergraduates from all 50 states and over 130 countries; approximately a third of all students are fluent in more than one language when they arrive on campus. Whether you hail from a small, rural community or a major metropolitan area – or somewhere in between – you will find a place among Georgetown’s dynamic and talented community of students. Georgetown’s commitment to ensuring a diverse student body is evidenced through its need-blind admission process and its commitment to meet 100% of the demonstrated financial need for all eligible students. Every undergraduate applicant receives admission consideration without regard to his or her financial circumstances. Once admitted, every student will have his or her demonstrated financial need met in full. Visit Diversity and Access page of our website to learn more about the Georgetown’s diverse community. First Year Application Transfer Application Visit Georgetown Georgetown in Your Area Related Links Georgetown College School of Nursing and Health Studies Walsh School of Foreign Service McDonough School of Business Undergraduate Bulletin Overseas Studies Financial Aid Campus Map Self-guided Tour Join Our Mailing List Georgetown Admissions Ambassador Program Athletics Georgetown Army ROTC Georgetown University Accreditation Office of Undergraduate Admissions Room 103 White Gravenor Hall 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington DC Phone: (202) 687-3600 Fax: (202) 687-5084 Maps Copyright Privacy Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination Full Site Menu facebook