Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | University Business Administrators Navigation Search FSU Webmail This website Any FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Close Search Main navigation Home About Organization Chart Our Partners Employee Spotlight Objectives Program Services Services Partner With Us Resources MYFSU FSU Webmail Sharepoint Strategic Plan Omni Training Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Close Menu University Business Administrators Main navigation Home About Organization Chart Our Partners Employee Spotlight Objectives Program Services Services Partner With Us Resources MYFSU FSU Webmail Sharepoint Strategic Plan Omni Training University Business Administrators (UBA), 296 Champions Way, UCC 5406, Tallahassee, FL 32306 · Map Location Employee Spotlight Andrea Sculley, Program Associate College of Communication & Information Andrea is a Program Associate and serves as the HR Representative in the Dean’s Office of the College of Communication & Information. She has been in this position since December 2021, and is also in her final year as a student at FSU in the Interdisciplinary Social Science Program with concentrations in Sociology, Public Administration, and Political Science. Her favorite thing about working at CCI is the great team. Outside of work, she enjoys spending time with her family including two daughters. They love being outside, whether it be fishing, swimming in the river, camping, or hosting an afternoon barbeque. She is very excited to be at FSU and looks forward to what the future holds! Employment Opportunities We partner with units at Florida State University to hire, train, and support employees specializing in: Accounting, Administration, Finance, Human Resources, Sponsored Research, and much more. Apply for a UBA position today! If you are interested in any of our positions, please consider submitting an FSU application online. Objectives As a partner between the university community and the Division of Finance and Administration, we strive to uphold our Mission, Vision,and Values. Services We endeavor to exceed client's expectations through strong relationships with University units. Click to see all the Benefits of Partnership and Services we provide. Jobs Opening Visit the FSU jobs site today! www.jobs.fsu.edu University Business Administrators 296 Champions Way University Center C 5406 Tallahassee FL, 32306 Mail Code: 2533 Location Map (850) 645.2209 ® Florida State University © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Like Florida State on Facebook Follow Florida State on Instagram Follow Florida State on Twitter" Follow Florida State on Youtube Connect with Florida State on LinkedIn More FSU Social Media