Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Vaccine Practices In response to the continuously evolving COVID-19 developments, the university is amending its COVID-19 practices. Beginning with the 2022 summer term, the university no longer requires but strongly recommends faculty, staff and students receive COVID-19 vaccines. It is important to note that the university will continue to consult with medical and public health experts and may change its response as needed. According to the CDC, up-to-date vaccination, which includes boosters, is generally the most effective way to protect oneself and others from COVID-19. In particular, students in residential housing are strongly encouraged to get COVID-19 vaccines and booster doses. For the Summer 2022 term, International students will need a COVID-19 test within 72 hours of arrival on campus unless they have been in the US for more than 10 days. Testing is available on UC's Uptown campus in the Steger Testing Center. COVID-19 Toolkit A COVID-19 Toolkit is now available with resources to keep you and others safe. The toolkit includes information and resources regarding: Vaccines Testing Treatments Masking Following updated CDC guidance, facial masks are no longer required to be worn inside campus buildings. Guidance is subject to change. It is important to note: Masks will continue to be required on UC operated transportation, in clinical settings and for at least ten days after an exposure to COVID-19 or a COVID-19 diagnosis, regardless of vaccination status.  Travel The university’s physician-led COVID Response Team is closely monitoring, local, regional, national and global trends related to COVID 19. Current standard policies apply to university-related domestic travel. International travel, is subject to additional review in light of changing circumstances. Please see the Travel & Study Abroad page for updates. Quarantine and Isolation Given that broad access to vaccines is available, on-campus quarantine and isolation housing is on reserve for residential student use but may be limited depending on events. Thus, on-campus quarantine and isolation housing cannot be guaranteed at any time. All student residents should have individual plans for isolation and quarantine housing in the event they are required to do so. Let’s remember that vaccination, including a booster dose, is currently the best way to prevent the need to quarantine or isolate. UC COVID Check App The UC COVID Check App will remain in use and operation during the Spring 2022 Semester.   Students are required – and faculty, staff and visitors are strongly encouraged – to report via the UC COVID Check App if they develop viral symptoms, receive a positive COVID test result or have been in close contact with a COVID-positive person.   To Remember As we move forward together as a community, let’s also remember our campus practices may need to change as conditions change. As such, all COVID-19 practices and policies are subject to revision and updates.   Questions Please read the above information, links and other navigation on this page. If you still have questions after reviewing the available information, please email campusreturn@uc.edu Please check this site regularly as all COVID-19 practices and policies delineated throughout this site are subject to revision and updates. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top