Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Next Lives Here Next Lives Here right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Leadership Academic Excellence right arrow down arrow Bearcat Promise Faculty Investment Staff Enrichment Urban Impact right arrow down arrow Urban Futures right arrow down arrow Digital Futures Community Change Collaborative (C3) Sustainability Urban Health CPS Strong Innovation Agenda right arrow down arrow 1819 Innovation Hub Co-Op 2.0 Inclusive Excellence Resources Events Give Next Lives Here At the University of Cincinnati, we realize the impact our teaching, research and service can have on our community and the world. So, we don’t wait for change to happen. We break boundaries, boldly imagine, and create what’s Next. To us, today’s possibilities spark tomorrow’s reality. That’s why we are leading urban public universities into a new era of innovation and impact. We're about engaging people and ideas - and transforming the world. We are UC. Welcome to what's Next. Academic Excellence Urban Impact Innovation Agenda IMPACT NLH is about making a positive difference in our community and society. INCLUSION We are empowered by people, perspectives and diverse ideas. INNOVATION Our work is driven by curiosity, and fueled by knowledge to discover the new and next. IMPACT NLH is about positively transforming our community and world. INCLUSION We are empowered by people, perspectives and diverse ideas. INNOVATION Our work is driven by curiosity, and fueled by knowledge to discover the new and next. Request More Information Featured News Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top