Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Center for Exploratory Studies Exploratory Studies right arrow down arrow About the Center for Exploratory Studies Prospective Students right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions College Transition Video Guides Current Students right arrow down arrow Frequently Asked Questions Majors & Academic Programs Resources Contact Us Home » Campus Majors & Programs » Center for Exploratory Studies Center for Exploratory Studies The Center for Exploratory Studies provides personalized exploratory advising which helps undecided students find their best-fit career pathways early in their academic career to enable timely graduation. CES is the University of Cincinnati's academic home for students who are undecided, exploring majors, or seeking admission to a competitive UC academic program. Our professional advisors are uniquely skilled to help students navigate the admission and program requirements for all undergraduate majors offered at UC. An intentional curricular structure ensures that students participate in academic exploration leading to major selection. Mission Statement We empower students to choose best-fit majors through highly personalized exploratory advising and innovative academic programming! FIND YOUR DIRECTION! EXPLORE...DISCOVER...DECIDE...DECLARE! UC Center for Exploratory Studies News Engineering student shifts from the stage to the lab May 14, 2021 Garek Bushnell came to the University of Cincinnati with a singular goal: to study acting. He graduated in April 2021 with his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering instead. Bushnell’s path between these two seemingly dissimilar fields is rooted in his mindset that following your passion will drive your determination to succeed – even if that passion comes from an unexpected source. UC Answers: How do I choose a major? June 25, 2020 Bobby Gray is the associate director for the Center for Exploratory Studies at the University of Cincinnati, where he helps students with the major selection process. Here are some of the most common questions and answers. UC’s exploratory program steers alumnus to success November 5, 2019 Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati\n2600 Clifton Ave\nCincinnati OH 45221\n513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top