Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Counseling & Psychological Services CAPS right arrow down arrow Meet Our Staff right arrow down arrow Tara Scarborough, PsyD (She|Her) Aisha Evans, PsyD (She|Her) Samantha Cook, PsyD (She|Her) Javier Robledo Rivera, PsyD (They|Them) Kristina Irby (She|Her) Keysha Alston, LPCC-S (She|Her) José Francisco Avilés-Acosta, PsyD (They|Them|Elle) Amy Blankenship, LPCC-S, TRCC (She|Her) Michanne Davis, LISW-S (She|Her) Jim Dugar MSW, LISW-S (He|Him) Shane Gibbons, PhD (He|They) Monica Gray, MS, IMFT (She|Her) Yasmin Jallaq (She|Her) Kim Jackson, AS (She|Her) Betsy Lehman, PhD (She|Her) Debra J. Love, MSW, LSW (She|Her) Madeleine Muller, LPCC (She|Her) Whitney Richardson, M.Ed, LPCC, CCTP (She|Her) Christy Wolfram, IMFT, ATR-BC (She|Her) Christen Aiguier, MA (She|Her) Alysa Klassen, M.A. (She|Her) Lela Pickett, M.S. (She|Her) Jeffrey Ramos Santiago, M.S. (He|Him) Meg Rose, MSS, LSW (She|Her) Get Support right arrow down arrow Get Immediate Support Meet with a Counselor right arrow down arrow ARISE Explore Self-Help Resources Meet with Peers Find Resources Intern at CAPS right arrow down arrow Pre-Masters Training Program Post-Internship Fellowship Doctoral Internship Training Program Doctoral Practicum Training Program Home » Campus Life » CAPS Home CAPS Staff outside on campus At UC CAPS, we prioritize accessible and effective services that you can access when you need them. We take a collaborative, strengths-based approach to help you identify tools, resources, and strategies to meet your mental health goals. This might only take one meeting, or it might take a little more support. Either way, we’re here to help you on your Bearcat journey. Get Support (513) 556-0648 During business hours (M-F, 8:30am-5pm), call us to schedule a free appointment or consult with a counselor. If you're in need of crisis support or after hours care, call us and follow the prompts to speak to a counselor. For a free 20-minute consult, schedule a Let's Talk session! Let's Talk Where can you find us? The CAPS main office is located at 225 Calhoun St. Suite 200 (next door to Target). We also offer counseling within many academic colleges, including: College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, Human Services, and Information Technology James L. Winkler College of Pharmacy UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Meet Our Staff Discover CAPS Events University of Cincinnati Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is committed to embracing and celebrating diversity that works towards the inclusivity and belongingness for all in our campus community. We do this through ongoing training on Culturally Responsive approaches to therapy and examination and redefinition of our own roles, policies, and biases within our system and services.. Our staff is dedicated to promoting an environment of respect, appreciation, acceptance, curiosity, and compassion towards differences in race, ethnicity, national origin, gender, age, religious affiliation, spiritual practices, political beliefs, sexual orientation, relational orientation, physical/mental ability, socioeconomic status, and cultural worldview of all students. We take a stance against discrimination and oppression in any form and encourage the utilization of our services by all students, especially those who might be reluctant to seek traditional forms of treatment. To this end, we strive to create an atmosphere of affirmation, openness, trust, and safety where all attitudes, beliefs, values, and behaviors can be openly shared and explored. What do CAPS services cost? right arrow down arrow Most of our services, including single session therapy, are free! We have provided a list of services that may have some costs and additional information about our fees. We provide fee waivers for many student groups, including students with financial concerns. Pay My Bill How do I become trained in suicide prevention? right arrow down arrow In Collaboration with 1n5 and Child Focus, the Division of Student Affairs-Health and Wellness is bringing the opportunity to be trained in the evidence-based suicide prevention training, Question, Persuade, Refer (QPR). Just as people trained in CPR and the Heimlich Maneuver help save thousands of lives each year, people trained in QPR learn how to understand mental health, recognize the warning signs of a suicide crisis, and how to question, persuade, and refer someone to help. Each year thousands of Americans, like you, are saying “Yes” to saving the life of a friend, colleague, sibling, or neighbor. Gatekeepers can be anyone, but include parents, friends, students, neighbors, teachers, ministers, doctors, nurses, office supervisors, squad leaders, foremen, police officers, advisors, caseworkers, firefighters, and many others who are strategically positioned to recognize and refer someone at risk of suicide. As a QPR-trained Gatekeeper you will learn to: Recognize the warning signs of suicide Know how to offer hope Know how to get help and save a life Register for QPR Training What other mental health and wellness resources does UC offer? right arrow down arrow The Student Wellness Center empowers students to make informed decisions regarding their health and wellness by providing evidence-based education, inclusive resources, and non-judgmental support. They also offer an extensive collection of resources and information about various health and wellness topics. University Health Services is an outpatient facility offering comprehensive clinical services to the student population. All students enrolled at the university are eligible to use UHS. Mental health services—individual psychotherapy and psychiatric medication management—are available by appointment. Students must make an appointment to be treated at UHS. Summer 2022 Group Therapy Services Group therapy is a highly effective way to address mental health and other personal concerns. Learn more about group therapy options this summer! 100% of participants recommend group therapy! Learn more about Group Therapy Counseling and Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs 225 Calhoun Street, Suite 200 Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-0648 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Counseling and Psychological Services Division of Student Affairs 225 Calhoun Street, Suite 200 Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-0648 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top