Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) Update on Operations OGEI has adopted a hybrid model for everyone’s safety, so some employees are working in the office while others are working remotely. We will still be responding to reports in a timely manner, scheduling online meetings and phone calls, and providing support. You are still able to reach us Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Please feel free to give us a call at 513-556-3349 or send us an email at ogei@uc.edu. Mission Statement The Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion (OGEI) serves University of Cincinnati students, faculty, staff, and visitors in ensuring equal access to University programs and activities in support of the University’s commitment to equity and inclusion. OGEI works to ensure that all persons can work, live, and learn free from all forms of discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex. OGEI coordinates the University’s comprehensive response to incidents of sex discrimination and sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, and sexual coercion. The University encourages all individuals to report potential incidents of sexual harassment to the University’s Title IX Coordinator who works within OGEI. Individuals can make a report and/or seek guidance from the Title IX Coordinator and OGEI staff by email, by phone, online, or in person. Title IX Coordinator – Adrienne Lyles Office: 308 USquare, 225 Calhoun St. Phone: (513) 556-3349 Email: titleix@uc.edu Reports and Consultations in the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year The fiscal year began on July 1, 2021, and as of May 31, 2022, the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion has received and responded to 455 reports and consultation requests. This information will be updated monthly. During a consultation with OGEI, a client meets with a member of our staff to discuss concerns they may have related to gender equity and inclusion. Consultations can be scheduled to discuss concerns related to harassment, discrimination, or misconduct, or issues related to equity, inclusion, and access. Consultations are designed to assist the client in clarifying issues and identifying appropriate actions, options, possible solutions, and available resources and support. A report is a notification (which can be made via email, over the phone, in person, or anonymously) of an incident of alleged misconduct or of concerning conduct. A report is not a complaint. When OGEI receives a report, OGEI sends an email outreach to the impacted party offering resources and support options. A report alone does not initiate an investigation, a Formal Complaint, a report to law enforcement, a report to the impacted party’s employer/unit, or contact with the person alleged to have engaged in misconduct. A complaint is a document filed and signed by a Complainant alleging misconduct by a named Respondent requesting a formal investigation into those allegations according to University policy. About Us Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion Staff Adrienne Lyles, PhD, JD Executive Director and Title IX Coordinator, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion 308 USquare, 225 Calhoun St., Cincinnati, OH 45221-0158 (513) 556-3349 adrienne.lyles@uc.edu Sally Miller Title IX Investigator, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion sally.miller@uc.edu Morgan Shaw Title IX Investigator, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion morgan.shaw@uc.edu Shannon Schipper Title IX Investigator, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion shannon.schipper@uc.edu Alexa Justice Administrative Coordinator, Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion (513) 556-3349 alexa.justice@uc.edu Deputy Title IX Coordinators Deputy Title IX Coordinators serve as a liaison between different departments and colleges within the University of Cincinnati and the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. Reports of possible Title IX violations may be made to the Title IX Coordinator or to one of the Deputy Title IX Coordinators identified below. Matthew Crawford Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Staff, Associate Director, Employee and Labor Relations University Hall, 51 Goodman Drive 513-556-0343 crawfmw@ucmail.uc.edu Maggie McKinley Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Athletics, Deputy Athletic Director/SWA Richard E. Lindner Center, 2751 O'Varsity Way, 878 513-556-3559 maggie.mckinley@uc.edu Todd E. Pettiford Deputy Title IX Coordinator for the College-Conservatory of Music, Assistant Dean, Student Services Emery 3235F 513-556-7459 pettifte@ucmail.uc.edu Jennifer Radt Deputy Title IX Coordinator for UC Clermont, Assistant Dean, Student Affairs & Services 4200 Clermont College Drive (513) 732-8964 jennifer.radt@uc.edu Molly Scruta Deputy Title IX Coordinator for UC Blue Ash, Program Manager of Inclusion & Involvement Muntz Hall, Room 112E (513) 558-9404 molly.scruta@uc.edu Kasey Underwood Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Faculty, Assistant Director of Faculty Affairs and Academic Personnel Van Wormer Hall, Room 240A 513-556-1957 kasey.underwood@uc.edu Ashleigh J. Wade Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Students, Director of the Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards Steger 745 513-556-6814 wadeaj@ucmail.uc.edu University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top