Skip to content Business Partnerships Student Resources Search… Search Search… Search Degrees & Certificates Associate Degrees Bachelor’s Degrees Master’s Degrees Doctoral Degrees Certificates All Programs Business Associate of Applied Business in Accounting Associate of Applied Business in Business Applications Technology Associate of Applied Business in Business Management Technology Associate of Applied Business in Financial Management Technology Associate of Applied Business in Marketing Management Technology Associate of Applied Business in Supply Chain Management Associate of Arts in Pre-Business Administration Communication Associate of Arts in Communication Education Associate of Applied Science in Early Childhood Care & Education Fire Science AAS Fire Service Technology Health Care AAS Health Information Systems AAS Health Information Systems - Cancer Registry Associate of Applied Business in Healthcare Management Human Services Associate of Science in Public Health Information Technology Associate of Applied Business in Information Technology Interdisciplinary Studies Associate of Individualized Study in Interdisciplinary Studies Law Associate of Applied Business in Law & Paralegal Studies All Associate Degrees Business Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Business Administration - Marketing Bachelor of Technical and Applied Studies Communication Bachelor of Arts in Communication Criminal Justice Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Education Bachelor of Science in Education in Early Childhood Education Fire Science BS Fire Science Technology Health Care Bachelor of Radiation Science Technology Bachelor of Science in Health Information Management Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences - Pre-Occupational Therapy Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science Bachelor of Science in Respiratory Therapy Bachelor of Technical and Applied Studies - Healthcare Leadership Human Services BS Substance Abuse Counseling Bachelor of Science in Public Health Bachelor of Social Work Law Bachelor of Science in Law & Paralegal Studies Nursing RN to BSN Organizational Leadership Bachelor of Arts in Organizational Leadership All Bachelor’s Degrees Athletics MS in Sport Administration Behavior Analysis Master of Education in Foundations in Behavior Analysis Business Master of Business Administration - MBA Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Information Systems Master of Science in Marketing Master of Science in Taxation Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice Education MEd Curriculum and Instruction MEd Educational Leadership MEd Literacy and Second Language Studies MEd Special Education Engineering MEng in Electrical Engineering MEng in Mechanical Engineering MEng in Robotics & Intelligent Autonomous Systems Health Care MA Communication Science and Disorders ACinD MA Speech-Language Pathology MS in Medical Laboratory Science Leadership Master of Health Administration - MHA Master of Health Informatics (MHI) Master of Science in Respiratory Therapy Human Services Master of Science in Community Health & Prevention Science Master of Science in Health and Wellness Management Information Technology MS Information Technology Instructional Design and Technology MEd Instructional Design and Technology Law Master of Legal Studies Nursing MSN Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner MSN Family Nurse Practitioner MSN Nurse-Midwifery MSN Nursing Systems Leadership MSN Women's Health Nurse Practitioner Pharmacy MS Pharm Sci: Drug Development MS Pharm Sci: Health Outcomes & Pharmacoeconomics MS Pharm Sci: Pharmacogenomics and Personalized Healthcare MS in Cosmetic Science MS in Pharmacy Leadership All Master’s Degrees Nursing BSN to DNP Specializations Post-MSN Doctor of Nursing Practice All Doctoral Degrees Behavior Analysis Behavior Analysis Graduate Certificate Business Business Foundations Graduate Certificate Corporate Taxation Graduate Certificate Individual Taxation Graduate Certificate Marketing Graduate Certificate All Business Certificates Criminal Justice Certificate in Analysis of Criminal Behavior Certificate in Correctional Rehabilitation Certificate in Crime Analysis and Prevention All Criminal Justice Certificates Education Autism Spectrum Disorders Graduate Certificate Certificate in Principal Licensure Gifted Education Certificate Intervention Specialist Licensure: Master of Education in Special Education PreK-12 Reading Instruction Endorsement Graduate Certificate STEM Teaching and Learning Certificate Special Education Leadership Graduate Certificate Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Endorsement Graduate Certificate All Education Certificates Health Care Cancer Registry Management Computed Tomography Undergraduate Certificate Health Care Administration Graduate Certificate Health Care Finance Graduate Certificate Health Care Operations Graduate Certificate Health Care Policy & Regulation Graduate Certificate Medical Coder Certificate Physician Practice Management Certificate Revenue Cycle Management Certificate All Health Care Certificates Human Services Certificate in Substance Abuse Counseling Information Technology Information Technology Certificate Instructional Design and Technology Certificate Blended Online Learning and Teaching (BOLT) Computer Technology Endorsement Graduate Certificate All Instructional Design and Technology Certificates Law Certificate in Law & Paralegal Studies Nursing Post-Master's Family Nurse Practitioner Post-Master's Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner All Nursing Certificates Pharmacy Clinical Trials Design and Research Graduate Certificate Cosmetic Science Graduate Certificate Global Regulatory Affairs in Drug Development Graduate Certificate Pharmacy Leadership Graduate Certificate All Pharmacy Certificates All Certificates All Programs Admissions Admissions Process Transfers State Authorization Key Considerations Student Complaint Information Tuition & Aid Tuition Academic Progress Online Program Fees Financial Aid Aid Budget and Limits Aid Recalculation Understanding Financial Aid TEACH Grant for Online Programs Year-Round Loan Distribution Military Military Benefits & Financial Aid Military Experience VetSuccess Online Partnerships Content Library Blog E-Resources Online Events News Why UC? About Us FAQ Online Readiness Refer a Friend Testimonials UC Online Recognitions UC Online Experience Student Resources Request Info Apply Evolving Education for a Changing World University of Cincinnati programs, faculty and academic excellence — fully available online. Find the program that’s right for you. Area of Study Any Academic Area Athletics Behavior Analysis Business Communication Criminal Justice Education Engineering Fire Science Health Care Human Services Humanities Information Systems Information Technology Instructional Design and Technology Interdisciplinary Studies Law Nursing Organizational Leadership Pharmacy Degree Level Any Degree level Associate Degrees Bachelor’s Degrees Master’s Degrees Doctoral Degrees Certificates Find Program From admission to graduation, our dedicated support team will help you achieve success. Online degrees Obtain an associate, bachelor's, master's or certificate. Select Your Program Tuition Paying for school is within your reach. We're here to help. Explore Financial Aid Options Get Started Take your first step toward a brighter future. Connect with an Advisor Take your career to the next level with a flexible education that fits your lifestyle. The flexibility of the program allows me to get a degree while on active military duty. Personalized Start-to-Graduation Support A dedicated student success team will be there to support and assist you, from application through graduation. Connect with an Advisor Education You Can Afford Investing in your future can fit your budget. We offer a variety of financial assistance and grant options Financial Support Details Earn Your Degree on Your Timeline Our flexible online degree programs are designed to fit your work-life schedule. Browse Programs Advance Your Career Obtain the knowledge and skills you need to earn a promotion or start a new career. Admission Process University of Cincinnati Online programs are ranked among the best in the U.S. Achieve your educational and professional goals with our expanding number of online programs. I wouldn’t be in the position I am today without University of Cincinnati Online's MS Sport Administration degree. High school athletics require crazy schedules. The professors relate because they know it from personal experience. They do a tremendous job making the online format as accessible as possible. Brandon S., MS Sport Administration, Class of 2018 | Assistant Athletic Director at Roger Bacon High School View MS in Sport Administration As a physician champion without an IT background, I realized that I wasn't prepared for the role. I enrolled in the Master of Health Informatics program. It delivered the skill sets I needed to be a health IT leader and to go on to become board certified in Clinical Informatics. I highly recommend University of Cincinnati's Master of Health Informatics program. Micheal A. | MS Health Informatics, Class of 2017 View Master of Health Informatics (MHI) As a mom of four children, a flexible online education was the best choice. I chose the University of Cincinnati because it allowed me to set up my clinicals close to home. I was pleasantly surprised by the experience. The faculty made time to meet with me one-on-one using Skype and I could schedule time with proctors for my tests. Wendi R. | MSN Nurse Midwifery View MSN Nurse-Midwifery When I returned to civilian life, I decided to get my master's in occupational therapy. I needed a flexible program that would fit with my work schedule, meet the prerequisites of the graduate programs I was looking at, and allow me to complete my bachelor’s degree relatively fast. I found the University of Cincinnati's fully online degree, which met all my criteria. Anthony M. | Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences - Pre-Occupational Therapy View Bachelor of Science in Health Sciences - Pre-Occupational Therapy 46k+ Full-time & part-time students #1 Best Online College in Ohio Study.com #14 Best Online Master's in Nursing Degrees Best Online MSN Programs in 2022 - US News Why UC Online? We are a 200-year-old premier research and higher learning institution whose mission is to help busy professionals like you build a better future. Our online students are equally valued members of our dynamic University of Cincinnati community and graduate with the same prestigious, career-advancing degrees. Learn About Our Community U.S. News & World Report ranks the academic quality of over 1,800 colleges, schools and programs across the country (and the world!). Only the best schools are included. Areas of Study Athletics Behavior Analysis Business Communication Criminal Justice Education Engineering Fire Science Health Care Human Services Humanities Information Systems Information Technology Instructional Design and Technology Interdisciplinary Studies Law Nursing Organizational Leadership Pharmacy Getting Started Degrees & Programs Admissions Military Tuition and Financial Aid Contact Us Connect with an Advisor Follow Us Facebook profile LinkedIn profile YouTube profile Instagram profile Pinterest profile uc.edu > Notice of Non-Discrimination Privacy Policy Clery and HEOA Notice eAccessibility Concerns © 2022 University of Cincinnati Online Copyright Information