Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati Trustees Kim Heiman Phil D. Collins J. Phillip Holloman Michelle "Shelly" A. Gillis Monica Turner Ronald D. Brown Gregory Hartmann Jill T. McGruder Jack Cohen Andrew Wessel Committees Academic and Student Affairs Health Affairs Finance and Administration Master Planning and Facilities Subcommittee Compensation Subcommittee Audit & Risk Management Governance & Internal Affairs Government Relations Investment Meeting Dates University Rules Administration Business & Finance Personnel Students Academic Property Auxiliary Board Minutes Honorary Degrees Honorary Degrees - Criteria & Process Committee on University Honors Administration Business & Finance Personnel Students Academic Property Auxiliary University Rules The rules of the University of Cincinnati are categorized into seven divisions. To view a list of rules in each division, simply click on that division title. Administration (Division 10) Affirmative action; Board of trustees bylaws; Conduct and ethics; Development; Emergency closures; Organization; Patents and copyrights; Records; Research; Safety; Sales and solicitation; University committees Business and Finance (Division 20) Accounting; Collections; Contracts; Fees; Insurance; Investments; Payroll Personnel (Division 30) Benefits; Classification; Compensation; Compensation and attendance; Conduct and discipline; Employment; Grievance; Human Resources Organization; Performance evaluation and probation; Records; Retirement; Termination; Time off from work; Work hours Students (Division 40) Conduct, rights and responsibilities; Financial aid; Health services; Health services; Identification; International students; Military service; Registration; Student organizations; University health services Academic (Division 50) Academic freedom; Appointments/promotion/tenure; College of applied science; College of business administration; College of design, architecture, art, and planning (DAAP); College of education; College of engineering; College of evening and continuing education (CECE); College of law; College of medicine; College of nursing and health; College of pharmacy; College-conservatory of music; Colleges and divisions; Degrees and certificates; Evening college; Libraries; McMicken college of arts and sciences; Professional practice; Research; School of social work; The graduate school; University college; University faculty; University of Cincinnati Clermont college; University of Cincinnati Blue Ash college Property (Division 60) Management control; Scheduling; Vehicles Auxiliary (Division 70) Athletics; Bookstore; Parking; Residence halls; Tangeman university center Disclaimer: The official copy of the Rules of the University of Cincinnati is maintained in the Office of the Board of Trustees, Room 614 University Pavilion, West Campus. The text of the Rules has been reproduced on our website as a convenience to students, faculty and staff of the University and the general public. While every effort has been made to ensure that the web version is accurate and current, users of the web version are advised that in the case of a discrepancy, the text found in the official copy of the Rules controls. Information online pertains to current rules only. Please contact the Trustees Office for archived rules. Board of Trustees University Pavilion, Room 614 - 2618 McMicken Circle PO Box 210062 Cincinnati OH 45221-0062 Phone: 513-556-3233 | Fax: 513-556-5269 Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.