Jump to main content User menu Directory News Events Calendar Newsletter Signup Search form Search × Main menu About the Center History Annual Reports Orientation Guide Getting Started Employment Eligibility I-9 Important Dates: 2021-2022 Important Dates: 2022-2023 Princeton 101 UCHV 101 Postdoctoral Research Associates: Resources Postdoctoral Research Associates: Vacation & Time Entry Financial Information Health Insurance Housing Child Care Centers and Schools UCHV Exit Procedures Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People Administration Faculty Executive Committee Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Faculty Fellows Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Professor for Distinguished Teaching Postdoctoral Research Associates Visiting Scholars Graduate Prize Fellows Associated Faculty Advisory Council Events Climate Futures Initiative Film Forum History of Political Thought Project Ira W. DeCamp Bioethics Seminars James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics Political Philosophy Colloquium Program in Ethics and Public Affairs Tanner Lectures on Human Values UCHV Conferences, Workshops & Special Events Accessibility of events Academic Programs Values and Public Life Certificate Application Information Calendar of Events Certificate Requirements VPL Independent Paper Requirements Research Funding Human Values Forum Political Philosophy Program Courses & Seminars Cross-Listed and Funded Courses Freshman Seminars Princeton Project in Philosophy and Religion Law Engaged Graduate Students Fellowships, Grants, & Prizes Graduate Prize Fellowships Political Philosophy Graduate Travel and Research Grant Conference & Event Funding Co-sponsored Events Black History, Women*s History, & Pride Month Events Law Related Events at Princeton Senior Thesis Prize Past Prize Recipients Short Movie Prize Laurance S. Rockefeller Preceptorship Nominations Open Positions Visiting Professor for Distinguished Teaching Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Faculty Fellowships Harold T. Shapiro Postdoctoral Research Associate in Bioethics Postdoctoral Research Associate in Philosophy and Religion Postdoctoral Research Associate in Values and Public Policy Postdoctoral Research Associate in Ethics and Climate Change Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Cognitive Science of Values Visiting Research Scholar/Princeton University Fellows in Law Media Event Broadcasts Publications University Center for Human Values Fostering ongoing inquiry into important ethical issues in private and public life and supporting teaching, research, and discussion of ethics and human values throughout the curriculum and across the disciplines at Princeton University. Learn more > Photo credit: Denise Applewhite From left: Eve Marder, Frederick W. Smith, Brent Henry '69, President Christopher L. Eisgruber, Fred David Gray, Amy Gutmann, Louise Sams '79. Princeton University confers honorary degree upon Amy Gutmann Amy Gutmann receives honorary degree from Princeton University at the May 24 Commencement ceremony. Nuala McGovern and Peter Singer BBC World Service Radio interviews Peter Singer Professor Peter Singer interviewed by BBC Newshour's Nuala McGovern. Collin Riggins Ethan Luk UCHV Short Movie Prize winner is Collin Riggins '24 and honorable mention to Ethan Luk '24 UCHV awards Short Movie Prize to Collin Riggins '24 as the winner and Ethan Luk '24 for honorable mention. Elizabeth Cohen Elizabeth Cohen interviewed for Wired Elizabeth Cohen interviewed for an article featured in Wired Luara Ferracioli Luara Ferracioli on what it means to belong to a country in The Sydney Morning Herald Luara Ferracioli writes about what it means to belong to a country in the April 4 op-ed published in The Sydney Morning Herald. Announcing our incoming Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Faculty Fellows and Visiting Associate Professor for Distinguished Teaching for 2022-2023! UCHV announces newly appointed visitors and returning scholars for the upcoming academic year, 2022-2023. Gavin Sullivan part of a legal team that removed a Yemeni man from UN Security Council blacklist Gavin Sullivan, Visiting Fellow at the University Center for Human Values, is part of an international legal team that successfully removed a Yemeni man from the United Nations (UN) Security Council’s ISIL and Al-Qaida Sanctions List. Lara Buchak Lara Buchak awarded inaugural Alvin Plantinga Prize On February 18, the American Philosophical Association (APA) announced Lara Buchak, Professor of Philosophy and UCHV Executive Committee member, as the inaugural recipient of the Alvin Plantinga Prize. Illustration credit: Egan Jimenez, Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Kim Lane Scheppele discusses the Russian invasion of Ukraine Sharing valuable insight on the crisis unfolding in Ukraine, Kim Lane Scheppele, Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of Sociology and International Affairs, and the University Center for Human Values, was one of four expert panelists convened to discuss Russia's attacks on Ukraine. Amy Gutmann Amy Gutmann appointed as United States ambassador to Germany Founding director of UCHV, Amy Gutmann, becomes the first woman to serve as United States ambassador to Germany. News Princeton University confers honorary degree upon Amy Gutmann Wednesday, May 25, 2022 BBC World Service Radio interviews Peter Singer Monday, May 23, 2022 The University Center for Human Values' Graduate Prize Fellows for 2022-2023 Monday, May 16, 2022 Luara Ferracioli and aged care in Australia Friday, May 13, 2022 View All News | More RSS feeds Events Fintan O'Toole (columnist for the Irish Times and book author): “Known and Strange Things: The Political Necessity of Art - Lecture I: Against Artfulness” Nov 9 Fintan O'Toole (columnist for the Irish Times and book author): “Known and Strange Things: The Political Necessity of Art - Lecture I: Against Artfulness” Wed, Nov 9, 2022, 4:30 pm to 6:30 pm Tags: Tanner Lectures on Human Values Fintan O’Toole (columnist for the Irish Times and book author): “Known and Strange Things: The Political Necessity of Art - Lecture II: Negative Capability” Nov 10 Fintan O’Toole (columnist for the Irish Times and book author): “Known and Strange Things: The Political Necessity of Art - Lecture II: Negative Capability” Thu, Nov 10, 2022, 4:30 pm to 6:30 pm Tags: Tanner Lectures on Human Values James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics: Robert Gooding-Williams (Columbia) Nov 17 James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics: Robert Gooding-Williams (Columbia) Thu, Nov 17, 2022, 4:30 pm to 6:00 pm Tags: James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics: Lea Ypi (London School of Economics) Feb 9 James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics: Lea Ypi (London School of Economics) Thu, Feb 9, 2023, 4:30 pm to Thu, Feb 23, 2023, 6:00 pm Tags: James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics View All Events University Center for Human Values 304 Louis Marx Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 (609) 258-4798 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University