Jump to main content User menu Directory News Events Calendar Newsletter Signup Search form Search × Main menu About the Center History Annual Reports Orientation Guide Getting Started Employment Eligibility I-9 Important Dates: 2021-2022 Important Dates: 2022-2023 Princeton 101 UCHV 101 Postdoctoral Research Associates: Resources Postdoctoral Research Associates: Vacation & Time Entry Financial Information Health Insurance Housing Child Care Centers and Schools UCHV Exit Procedures Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People Administration Faculty Executive Committee Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Faculty Fellows Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Professor for Distinguished Teaching Postdoctoral Research Associates Visiting Scholars Graduate Prize Fellows Associated Faculty Advisory Council Events Climate Futures Initiative Film Forum History of Political Thought Project Ira W. DeCamp Bioethics Seminars James A. Moffett '29 Lectures in Ethics Political Philosophy Colloquium Program in Ethics and Public Affairs Tanner Lectures on Human Values UCHV Conferences, Workshops & Special Events Accessibility of events Academic Programs Values and Public Life Certificate Application Information Calendar of Events Certificate Requirements VPL Independent Paper Requirements Research Funding Human Values Forum Political Philosophy Program Courses & Seminars Cross-Listed and Funded Courses Freshman Seminars Princeton Project in Philosophy and Religion Law Engaged Graduate Students Fellowships, Grants, & Prizes Graduate Prize Fellowships Political Philosophy Graduate Travel and Research Grant Conference & Event Funding Co-sponsored Events Black History, Women*s History, & Pride Month Events Law Related Events at Princeton Senior Thesis Prize Past Prize Recipients Short Movie Prize Laurance S. Rockefeller Preceptorship Nominations Open Positions Visiting Professor for Distinguished Teaching Laurance S. Rockefeller Visiting Faculty Fellowships Harold T. Shapiro Postdoctoral Research Associate in Bioethics Postdoctoral Research Associate in Philosophy and Religion Postdoctoral Research Associate in Values and Public Policy Postdoctoral Research Associate in Ethics and Climate Change Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Cognitive Science of Values Visiting Research Scholar/Princeton University Fellows in Law Media Event Broadcasts Publications Home Main menu: sub-menu items Values and Public Life Certificate Application Information Calendar of Events Certificate Requirements Research Funding Human Values Forum Political Philosophy Program Courses & Seminars Cross-Listed and Funded Courses Freshman Seminars Princeton Project in Philosophy and Religion Law Engaged Graduate Students VPL Certificate Program Values and Public Life (VPL) The University Center for Human Values launched its undergraduate certificate program in Values and Public Life in fall 2010. Students attaining the certificate will be equipped to bring informed discussion of values into the public sphere and to integrate a critical value perspective into their future studies and pursuits. Professor Sandra Bermann is the program's Director. The program is open to undergraduates in all disciplines, and students are invited to apply in the spring semester of their sophomore year. Program requirements consist of two core courses, one each in politics and philosophy, and an additional seminar in normative issues; two additional courses contributing to the development of an area of focus; and the writing of the senior thesis or a substantial piece of independent work on a relevant topic, with participation in a non-credit-bearing senior thesis workshop. Admission and certification of completion are overseen by a faculty committee of the University Center for Human Values. Enrolled students will be offered a further range of opportunities, including a mentorship program, meals with faculty and visiting speakers, summer grants for projects or research related to values and public life, and various outings and discussions on ethics-related topics. For questions or additional information, please contact Kimberly Murray at VPL@princeton.edu. University Center for Human Values 304 Louis Marx Hall Princeton, NJ 08544 (609) 258-4798 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University