Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search More Sites Public Affairs Government and Community Relations University Communications About Our Portfolio Contact Us Meet the Team Let's Get to Work Tools and Resources For the Media About Meet the Team Let's Get to Work Tools and Resources For the Media Search About Our Portfolio Contact Us Meet the Team Let's Get to Work Tools and Resources For the Media Advancing the Messages and Mission of the U University Communications advances the mission and worldwide reputation of the University of Miami through powerful storytelling, strategic marketing, and swift delivery of information across internal and external channels. We provide robust resources to help our outstanding schools, colleges, and administrative units do the same. Our award-winning team of news and feature writers, editors, graphic designers, videographers, social media specialists, and web and digital content developers are eager to help you elevate the voices that strengthen the identity and impact of the U. Submit a Story Media Requests Areas of Expertise Editorial and Design We are the writers, editors, and creative designers who produce the University’s flagship print and electronic publications; assist schools, colleges, and administrative units with marketing deliverables for high-profile initiatives; and ensure the authenticity, consistency, and resonance of the University’s brand. Web and Digital We are responsible for designing and managing the University’s miami.edu homepage and its top-tier websites. We also govern the University’s web content management systems, assist academic and administrative units with website development, and deploy digital displays and mobile solutions. Social Media and Video We create and curate engaging video and multimedia content across the University’s main social media sites, monitor all sites, and respond to user comments. We also oversee location and commercial shoots, live streaming of events, transcription services, and other needs that arise for special events on campus. News and Media Relations We enhance the global reputation of the University by communicating its achievements, faculty research, student successes, programs and events to the local, regional, national, and international news media. Our news writers and public relations specialists respond to daily media requests for information and faculty experts. Employee Communications We enhance the experience of working at the U by sharing news, stories, and events to help faculty and staff stay connected. We manage strategic communications campaigns for Life@TheU, Corporate Run, Week of Well-Being, ’Canes Total Rewards Open Enrollment, and more. FLAGSHIP PUBLICATIONS Miami Magazine Miami: The University of Miami Magazine showcases engaging features, news, and profiles to keep our alumni and friends well informed about the U. News@TheU News@TheU provides University of Miami faculty, staff, students, and community with a roundup of UM news, information, and events every day, except holidays. President’s Report The President’s Report summarizes major accomplishments of the University each year for trustees, donors, faculty, and the community. ’Cane Talks 'Cane Talks are lively ten-minute presentations by leading University thinkers that explore ideas shaping society, and transforming lives. U MIAMI ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University Communications 6200 San Amaro Drive Suite 400 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5500 umcommunications@miami.edu 305-284-5500 umcommunications@miami.edu Resources Media Requests Creative Services Requests Web Service Requests Visual Identity Guide Public Affairs Public Affairs University Communications Government and Community Relations News and Events Web and Digital More at UM University of Miami Office of the President Board of Trustees Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices