Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home University Communications Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin University Communications Brand Guidelines Media Contacts UC Wiki Search Search Search Search About Expand Digital Strategy & Operations Expand Internal Communications Expand Marketing Expand Media Relations Expand Resources Expand Contact Expand Home Resources Resources Brand Guidelines Learn more about the Texas brand story, download logos and assets, and review editorial, visual, and web guidelines. Texas Today Events and Announcements Calendar The university-wide events and announcements calendar lists daily campus events and announcements, with a curated section of featured events. Search by day, department, and audience, get ticket info and RSVP, and more. Filming Guidelines UT's Filming Guidelines provide information to students, broadcast journalists, and other filmmakers looking to film on campus. Photography Find out how to request images from the university photography collection. Social Media Resources Whether you’re an administrator maintaining your unit’s social media accounts or a university professor, review our university-wide guidelines. Trademarks Connect with the Office of Trademark Licensing to learn more about proper use of university logos and protected marks. Video Request campus b-roll and learn more about interview facility options, music, and captioning/transcription services. UC Wiki Comprehensive University Communications information for the UT Austin community, including policies, guidelines, and helpful tips for campus communicators. Topics in the News University Communications provides background information on topics of current and continuing interest to members of the UT community, alumni, general public and the media. The information is updated regularly. University Communications Plan for 2019-20 (PDF) Learn about University-wide goals & messages, overarching themes, areas of focus, and audiences. Press Release May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering AUSTIN, Texas — Roger Bonnecaze, an internationally recognized expert in rheology and modeling and simulation for nanomanufacturing who has served as a faculty member at The University of Texas at Austin for nearly 30 years, has been named dean of the Read more May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air More than a third of the world’s population lives in drylands, areas that experience significant water shortages Read more May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise AUSTIN, Texas – Co-workers who team up to solve problems or work on projects can benefit when they have less in common and take turns spotlighting their different expertise, according to new research from The University of Texas at Austin Read more May 22, 2022 Emmanuel Acho Delivers Commencement Address at The University of Texas at Austin Emmanuel Acho, former Texas and NFL linebacker, No. 1 New York Times bestselling author, and Emmy-winning host and TV analyst, returned to the Forty Acres to deliver the keynote address at The University of Texas at Austin’s 139th spring commencement in Darrell K Read more View all news University Communications Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube GooglePlus Maps Directory UT Direct UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022