Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Careers Careers Make a difference. UConn’s people are the driving force behind our success. Whether performing groundbreaking studies or pushing our students to unleash their potential in the classroom, our faculty and staff have helped shape the landscape of our inclusive and diverse community. Our people are a critical piece of the puzzle, linking modern facilities, partnerships with top businesses, and our dedication to education and research. We are committed to excellence across a wide swath of disciplines in our faculty and staff at a time of great change and potential for higher education. By maintaining our existing strengths and growing our expertise in strategic areas, we are continuing the transformation that has led the University to stand among the nation’s leading public research institutions. It is undoubtedly an exciting time to work at UConn. Join us as we firmly establish UConn among the world’s preeminent research universities. Related Links Husky Hire Human Resources Schools and Colleges Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut