Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Enrichment Opportunities Enrichment Opportunities Ignite your education. Above and beyond is just the starting point for students who take advantage of UConn's enrichment programs. Live and learn among other students who share your interests in a Learning Community. Explore a foreign land through Education Abroad. Create new knowledge through independent research. Challenge yourself in the Honors Program or gain hands-on experience with an internship. UConn offers a number of ways to broaden your perspective, make yourself more marketable, and unleash your potential. Learning Communities Joining a Learning Community is one way to create a small world on a large campus. You’ll experience living, learning, and special activities with students who share your interests and passions. Honors Program While more of the nation’s best and brightest choose UConn each year, those at the top of their high school graduating classes are invited to join the prestigious Honors Program. Through special classes, research, leadership opportunities, events, learning communities, and community engagement, Honors Scholars make discoveries, form relationships with world-renowned faculty, and become leaders in their fields and communities. Related Links Undergraduate Majors Online Courses Office of the Provost Individualized & Interdisciplinary Studies Pre-Medical and Pre-Dental Pre-Law 135+ Education Abroad programs, including study, internship, research, and service-learning opportunities Education Abroad How will you change your world? UConn offers Education Abroad programs across the globe on which you may study, intern, serve, or research. Advance social justice in a South African township. Conduct experiments in the Costa Rican rainforest. Work at a German technology firm. No matter what you do, you can develop your global citizenship and be the change our world needs. Education Abroad How will you change your world? UConn offers Education Abroad programs across the globe on which you may study, intern, serve, or research. Advance social justice in a South African township. Conduct experiments in the Costa Rican rainforest. Work at a German technology firm. No matter what you do, you can develop your global citizenship and be the change our world needs. Center for Career Development Hundreds of top employers actively recruit UConn students on campus each year. Start early and get ahead by visiting the Center for Career Development for one-on-one career counseling, résumé and mock interview workshops, and career and internship fairs. Once you’ve narrowed down your search, attend job interviews with major employers right on campus. Office of Undergraduate Research UConn faculty members are leading hundreds of exciting research projects at any given time. The Office of Undergraduate Research connects undergraduate students at all UConn campuses with opportunities to participate in research or creative projects alongside our distinctive professors. Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut