Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Visit Campus Visit Campus See for yourself. Pictures only tell part of the story. You have to hear the leaves crunching under your feet as you walk down Fairfield Way. Feel the wind on your face as you take a stroll on Horsebarn Hill. Experience the energy when a group of students solve a complex problem in the library. Be inspired by a professor imparting wisdom in a classroom. Hear the cheers of thousands of Husky fans echoing in Gampel Pavilion. Bottom line: You have to experience UConn for yourself. Each year, 50,000 people take student-guided tours of the UConn campus in Storrs departing from the Lodewick Visitors Center. It’s not just Storrs that has something to offer. Our five regional campuses across the state at Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, and Waterbury each boast a unique experience, while still being UConn at their core. So whether it’s the main campus or a regional that you have your sights set on, schedule a visit, attend an event, or just stop on by to experience what it's like to be a Husky. Huskies Always Find a Way Forward, Because Together We’re Unstoppable There are many ways to explore life as a future member of our community, whether you’re interested in our prestigious academic programs or curious about the clubs, activities, and volunteer opportunities that will enrich your studies. Explore our virtual experiences and be a part of the next generation of Huskies who join together as a dynamic force for good. Virtual Information Sessions offer you a taste of the boundless opportunities that exist at UConn and a better understanding of what makes us champions. Related Links Lodewick Visitors Center Storrs Campus Map Storrs Campus Life Admissions Events Storrs Open House You Visit Campus Tour Contact the Lodewick Visitors Center 115 North Eagleville Road, U-3225 Storrs, CT 06269 tours@uconn.edu 860-486-4900 Fall and Spring Semesters Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. – 4 p.m. Between Semesters (Winter, Spring, Summer, and Thanksgiving breaks) Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 4 p.m. Schedule a Visit Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut