Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Tuition and Costs Tuition and Costs Invest in What Matters Most Choosing UConn is a smart step toward success as we pride ourselves on being not only among the premier public research universities in the nation, but also a best value among public colleges. The Office of Student Financial Aid Services is dedicated to working closely with students and their families to ensure all UConn students receive maximum financial aid consideration. More than 60 percent of UConn undergraduate students receive gift aid in the form of grants and scholarships. In addition to classroom experiences, tuition dollars benefit your experience at any of our five campuses by supporting vital services, such as mental health and wellness, on campus jobs where you can gain valuable work experience, hundreds of education abroad opportunities, and recreation. UConn has over 80 research centers and institutes which allow students to make groundbreaking advancements in emerging areas of science, business and more. The UConn IDEA Grant program awards up to $4,000 per student to support student-designed and student-led projects. Current Tuition & Fees Related Links Office of Student Financial Aid Services Office of the Bursar Student Employment Approximately 63% of UConn undergraduate students receive gift aid in the form of grants and scholarships. We Help You Achieve Your Dreams Through Transparency At UConn we partner with you to help navigate the Financial Aid process to ensure you are well informed of the costs associated with obtaining a degree at all of our campuses. First-year applicants are automatically considered for most merit scholarships administered by UConn and more than $195 million in gift aid supports UConn students like you annually. 73 percent of UConn students graduate in four years saving students thousands of dollars. More than $31M is available in Pell Grant support for UConn students annually which reduces the number of loans students take out. The Ultimate Return on Your Investment As you approach the end of your time at UConn, rest assured your time and money was well spent. According to UConn’s Center for Career Development, 84 percent of the graduating class of 2020 were either employed full time by the end of the calendar year, or went on to post-graduate education opportunities during the same time frame. The average starting salary of a UConn graduate in 2020 was $56,075. Over 700 companies actively recruit students on campus each year providing students with access to some of the region’s top employers Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut