Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Construction Construction Building Excellence UConn is one of our nation’s top public universities, home to the brightest faculty and students who deserve the best spaces in which to live and learn. We are building state-of-the art facilities that foster imagination, cultivate relationships, and advance innovation. UConn’s strategic Master Plan provides the blueprint for improvements that will allow our flagship University to maintain its world-class status. UCONN 2000, 21st Century UConn, and in 2014, Next Generation Connecticut, the state’s 10-year, $1.5 billion initiative, are transforming our facilities statewide, strengthening our research and education. The following sampling of projects in planning, design, and construction represent key investments from those initiatives for UConn’s future. For the most up-to-date information on these projects and others, including construction activity maps and quarterly construction reports please visit our website at updc.uconn.edu. University Planning, Design, and Construction Important Information Construction Activity Map Related Links Campus Master Plan Construction Progress Videos Projects in Planning, Design, and Construction Quarterly Construction Report Athletic District Improvements The University Athletics District Development project, slated for fall 2020 completion, replaces existing outdated facilities with new baseball, softball and soccer stadiums. The project includes a new Performance Center with new locker rooms, offices, a strength and conditioning space, and conference and support spaces. Programming, site planning, and coordination with a renovation of existing facilities at Freitas and a potential future new ice hockey arena are under review. The project conforms to Connecticut High Performance Building Code regulations and is registered as a LEED project with a target of LEED-Certified. Athletic District Improvements The University Athletics District Development project, slated for fall 2020 completion, replaces existing outdated facilities with new baseball, softball and soccer stadiums. The project includes a new Performance Center with new locker rooms, offices, a strength and conditioning space, and conference and support spaces. Programming, site planning, and coordination with a renovation of existing facilities at Freitas and a potential future new ice hockey arena are under review. The project conforms to Connecticut High Performance Building Code regulations and is registered as a LEED project with a target of LEED-Certified. In Construction Northwest Science Quad In 2015 the University of Connecticut completed their Campus Master Plan which set forth planning principles to guide future development on campus. Comprehensive in scope, the master plan provides the organizing structure for future campus growth and modernization. This area in the science district is one of the primary components of the master plan and contains the future site of the next new science building. The site assessment will guide that project’s development by determining the site’s capacity while supporting a landscape framework that improves the pedestrian experience and more fully integrates additional future development into the science core and the campus. Ice Hockey Arena In 2013, the University joined the Hockey East Association for Men’s and Women’s ice hockey. By doing so, the University committed to building a 2,500-seat arena on-campus, and is currently working with a construction manager to develop the arena, an entrance plaza, parking facilities for approximately 350 vehicles and all associated infrastructure. The new arena is located in the recently renovated Athletics District and is scheduled to open early in the 2022-23 men’s and women’s ice hockey seasons. Other Projects In Construction Public Safety Complex Addition Expand The Public Safety Complex on the corner of Discovery Drive and North Eagleville Road is the headquarters for the UConn Police Department, UConn Fire Department, statewide Dispatch Center, as well as administrative staff. First opened in 1992, its main building serves to support UConn’s statewide public safety efforts at all UConn campuses but has not expanded in the nearly 30 years it has been occupied, even though the Division has grown significantly during this time. The dispatch center is undersized to handle the increase in statewide responsibilities, most notably UConn Health. The proposed facility will include gender equitable space for both police, fire and dispatch personnel as well as a safe and inviting lobby area for visitors to the building. The renovation moves the perception of UConn public safety from an early 1990’s view of public safety (police centric) to a progressive and modern university public safety organization. Slated for completion in Summer 2022, this project will construct a new addition adjacent to the existing fire department equipment bays to house the fire department staff. The floor area in the existing facility currently occupied by the Fire Department will be renovated to provide additional locker areas for the Police Department, and an expanded dispatch area. To address potential security concerns, a new entrance vestibule and site upgrades are a component of the project scope. Supplemental Utility Plant Expand As part of the STEM initiative of Next Generation Connecticut capital plan, utility modeling has shown that the University will need to produce or treat and distribute additional chilled water, steam, and electrical power to support the development of the Storrs Campus. The project, currently in design concurrent with STEM Research Center 1, will be constructed in two phases. Phase I would include the new Supplemental Utility Plant building, site improvements, chiller(s), emergency generator(s), and steam boiler(s), while Phase II would include installation of potential electrical tri-generation equipment as determined during the design of Phase I. Infrastructure Repairs/Replacement/Modernization Expand Utility infrastructure is the backbone of campus operations, supporting all buildings, services, and student and faculty needs. These systems represent a significant investment over decades of growth, requiring that future development considers carefully the integrity of existing infrastructure before expansion or repairs are made. UConn has begun planning, design, and construction to improve its utilities, and will continue to do so pragmatically on an annual basis with as little disturbance to campus life as possible. Completed Projects Athletic District Improvements The University Athletics District Development project, slated for fall 2020 completion, replaces existing outdated facilities with new baseball, softball and soccer stadiums. The project includes a new Performance Center with new locker rooms, offices, a strength and conditioning space, and conference and support spaces. Programming, site planning, and coordination with a renovation of existing facilities at Freitas and a potential future new ice hockey arena are under review. The project conforms to Connecticut High Performance Building Code regulations and is registered as a LEED project with a target of LEED-Certified. Gant Renovations, Phases 1 & 2 Opened in fall 2017, this 110,000+ square-foot facility with specialized equipment and instrumentation brings together intellectual, physical, and technological assets to foster University-Industry partnerships for research, innovation, technology commercialization, and job growth for the State of Connecticut. Other Completed Projects Babbidge Library Renovations – Level 1 - Spring 2021 Expand The Homer Babbidge Library was constructed in 1978. The building was designed around the traditional library model at the time, which included an extended stack footprint and a focus on printed circulated collections. As technology has advanced, informational resources are more available to students and faculty through different mediums, and the library model has changed to one focused on group study, collaboration, innovation, social media and technology-enhanced instruction. A ten-year Library Master Plan was developed in 2016 and portions of the work were released to create sufficient space to complete a larger renovation of the building. Much of the work identified in the short term phase (2018 – 2022) of the Master Plan has been completed and comprised the renovation of the main Plaza Level, portions of three other floors in the building and the addition of a new egress stair tower. Additionally, Level I underwent major transformation to meet the needs of a 21st century facility. Programmatically, this floor was envisioned as a collaborative space, including multi-micro learning environments with furniture and technology to support collaboration and interactive learning. The scope of work included construction of a Digital Scholarship and Data Curation research area, a Data Visualization Laboratory, a Recording Studio for online classes, and Project Rooms. More specifically, improvements included upgraded finishes and furniture replacement, infrastructure to support contemporary electrical and data needs, and modernization of technology. Planning began in 2016 and with rolling phases of completion in 2018 and 2021. Additional renovations are planned but are not funded at this time. South Campus Commons - Fall 2020 Expand Completed fall of 2020, the Campus Master Plan identifies South Campus – roughly between Whitney Road and Bolton Road – as having enormous potential to transform into a robust live/learn neighborhood. Modest improvements to South Campus Commons, a tree-canopied yard between Whitney and Gilbert Roads, will help create a new front door for academic and residential buildings. Within a short walk to the new Student Recreation Center and campus core, improvements to South Campus Commons will include new sidewalks, tree plantings, lighting, site furnishings and green infrastructure. Fine Arts Renovations & Production Facility - Fall 2020 Expand Completed fall of 2020. This project includes a 30,000 square foot addition to the existing Drama/Music/Nafe Katter Theater to serve as a centralized shops and theater production facility. The addition will also provide a critical linkage between Fine Arts buildings that currently do not exist, accessible access to the second floor of the Drama/Music Building and a new entry lobby on the north side of the complex. The project also includes removal and replacement of the exterior glazing systems on the Storrs Road and Bolton Road sides of the building. Design was completed in fall 2016. Main Campus Parking Replacements - Fall 2020 Expand Completed fall of 2020, the Transportation Circulation & Parking Appendix of the Campus Master Plan 2015-2035 recommended the replacement of 1,000 parking space losses resulting from planned Next Generation Connecticut campus development. The project scope includes an expanded surface lot on Parcel D consisting of approximately 700 spaces and the connecting drive. The remaining 300 spaces are in design or construction as part of other projects. Planning began in June 2017 and design was completed a little over a year later. The lot will also include shuttle stops, sidewalks, accessible spaces, vehicle charging stations, striping, signage, lighting, security cameras, plantings, a stormwater management system and minor infrastructure for potential and solar canopies in the future. Wilbur Cross Reading Rooms Renovations - Fall 2018 Expand The North and South Reading Rooms, comprising 4,000 square feet in the Wilbur Cross Building, are original to the 1939 structure located at the center of the historic campus core. The South Reading Room is heavily used student study and work space, and the North Reading Room is used for numerous university events year-round. This project restored and refurbished the spaces to improve functionality, expand and enhance student study and work space, modernize and improve AV and IT capabilities, as well as address acoustical issues and long-term deferred maintenance needs. Design began in October of 2016 and construction was completed in September 2018. Central Campus Parking - Fall 2018 Expand With various construction projects complete, the site west of Gampel Pavilion beside Sherman Field required restoration for parking and pedestrian safety. Improvements included accessible spaces, striping, signage, lighting, security cameras, plantings, a stormwater management system and minor infrastructure for potential vehicle charging stations and solar panels in the future. Clear delineation of pedestrian circulation and Gampel’s loading zones, removal of unsafe parking near the natatorium and reorganization of vehicular travel and parking behind the southern end of the fieldhouse was also included. The shotput area was also relocated adjacent to other throwing facilities utilized by our track and field program. Planning began in April 2017 and construction was completed in September 2018. Innovation Partnership Building - Fall 2017 Expand Opened in fall 2017, this 110,000+ square-foot facility with specialized equipment and instrumentation brings together intellectual, physical, and technological assets to foster University-Industry partnerships for research, innovation, technology commercialization, and job growth for the State of Connecticut. Engineering and Science Building - Fall 2017 Expand This 115,000-square-foot facility includes state-of-the-art laboratory space for interdisciplinary research, and will accommodate student and faculty growth in fields such as bio-nanoengineering and cyber-physical systems engineering. Construction on the five-story, $95 million building began in June 2015, with completion fall 2017. Gampel Pavilion Roof Repairs - Fall 2017 Expand Opening in 1990, the domed ceiling’s construction was innovative for its time. Over time and as Gampel has aged, the fabric of the ceiling panels has started to tear and flake and the sealant between the panels has started to wear off. The repairs involved included dislodging each panel from the ceiling, lowering it to the ground, replacing the covering and insulation, and then raising it up for reinstallation. On the exterior, the roof was resealed and a new and safer access system was installed for workers to reach the roof when needed. The work will be completed before the start of the 2017-18 basketball season. UConn Stamford Residence Hall - Fall 2017 Expand Opening the fall of 2017, this six-story building at 900 Washington Blvd. sits just two blocks south of UConn Stamford and will house almost 300 students annually, operating the same way as the Storrs residence halls, with resident assistants and study lounges. The 116 units comprise 10 studio, 49 one-bedroom, and 57 two-bedroom apartments; 17 top-floor apartments also have lofts. The property includes 100 designated parking spaces for students and full-time security services. UConn Hartford - Fall 2017 Expand Opening in the fall of 2017, the new downtown Hartford campus comprises about 232,000 square feet of learning and community space, including 160,000 square feet in the Hartford Times anchor building, 34,500 square feet at 38 Prospect St., and about 19,200 square feet in the Hartford Public Library. The Times building includes 23 classrooms, staff and faculty offices, three state-of-the-art computer labs, five science labs, meeting and activity space, study areas, conference rooms, and an atrium. UConn Bookstore – Main Campus - Fall 2017 Expand The existing bookstore is approximately 41,000 square feet and is in the process of a full renovation to improve the consumer and student experience. A new main entrance from the front patio will connect the new exterior seating area to the interior retail and public spaces. The interior renovations will include a Starbucks café, an Apple and technology store, and The Glossary, a section for cosmetic and beauty products. The 4,000-square-foot public space on the second floor will provide student seating and study areas and can also be used for events. The bookstore will remain open for business. Read more about the UConn Bookstore renovation, which was completed the fall 2017, on UConn Today. Peter J. Werth Residence Tower - Fall 2016 Expand A new 212,000-square-foot residential facility opened for the Fall 2016 semester for students participating in one of eight Living & Learning Communities at UConn who are developing skills in innovation and creativity to lead their generation. Construction began in November 2014 with a budget of $105 million. Monteith Building Renovation - Fall 2016 Expand This 73,000-square-foot renovation became the new home for the Department of Math in fall 2016. It provided necessary swing space for other academic programs housed in buildings that will be renovated later, such as the Gant Science Complex. With a budget of $25 million, construction began in fall 2015. Putnam Refectory Renovation - Summer 2016 Expand The existing 42,000-square-foot dining hall beside the new residence hall recently underwent renovations to improve and increase its seating capacity and self-service buffet areas, making additional room for students who live in the new residence hall nearby. Construction began in September 2015 and completed in Summer 2016. Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut