Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Living on Campus Living on Campus Make yourself at home. Residential Life UConn has among the highest percentage of students living on campus of any public university in the nation, so your friends will always be around — days, nights, and weekends. UConn housing offerings include residence halls, suites, and apartments, each with their own amenities. Enjoy cable TV, high-speed internet, volleyball courts, makerspaces, game rooms, study lounges — you might never want to leave. In addition, 20 Living/Learning Communities and several Special Interest Housing options provide the opportunity to live with friends who share your interests, lifestyle, or commitment to a major. At UConn Stamford, students can apply to live in apartment-style University housing located at the center of a vibrant city, steps from campus, internship opportunities, cultural experiences, and more. For more information, visit stamford.uconn.edu. Related Links Residential Life Dining Services Campus Map Transportation One Card Office 44% of first-year students participate in a Learning Community Dining Services You won’t go hungry at UConn. Sample the unique atmosphere and menu at each of the eight certified-green dining halls and six cafés, or grab a bite at UConn’s food trucks, restaurants, or Student Union food court. Delicious (and award-winning!) selections include sophisticated international cuisine, kosher and halal food stations, and vegetarian and gluten-free meals, as well as farm-to-table produce from the EcoHouse Living Learning Community and Spring Valley Student Farm. UConn has been ranked No. 1 for gluten-free dining options by the National Association of College & University Food Services. Here’s the best part: students living on campus have unlimited access to the resident dining units during operating hours with any meal plan. That means you can grab a coffee at 7 a.m. and come back for your bagel at 8 — it’s okay by us. View online menus and meal plan options at dining.uconn.edu. Cultural Centers Embrace your culture or learn more about others at our six Cultural Centers, which offer an atmosphere of support, guidance, and advocacy when needed — and host some of the most popular (and fun!) student events on campus. The African American Cultural Center, Asian American Cultural Center, Puerto Rican/Latin American Cultural Center, Rainbow Center, and Women’s Center celebrate our diversity and create a vibrant community. Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut