Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Athletics Athletics Play your heart out. From cheering at Gampel Pavilion and Rentschler Field to participating in victory parades and rallies, UConn fans have some of the best school spirit in the country. And rightfully so. A tradition of coaching winning athletes ensures UConn is a standout in Division I sports and fuels our academic spirit. Our teams work hard to compete at the highest level, racking up championship titles and making us proud. UConn student-athletes are ambassadors for the student body, working just as hard in the classroom as they do in competition. When they’re not training or studying, our athletes give back to the community. From baseball, softball, and soccer to hockey, track and field, and swimming and diving, UConn athletes consistently perform at an elite level athletically and academically. Our students, alumni, and fans from all over Connecticut — and beyond — rally around Husky pride. Visit UConn Huskies 23 national championships across all sports Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut