Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses UConn Health UConn Health We practice what we teach. A commitment to human health and well-being has been of utmost importance to UConn Health since the founding of the University of Connecticut schools of Medicine and Dental Medicine in 1961. Based on a strong foundation of groundbreaking research, first-rate education, and quality clinical care, we have expanded our medical missions over the decades. In just over 50 years, UConn Health has evolved to encompass more research endeavors, to provide more ways to access our superior care, and to innovate both practical medicine and our methods of educating the practitioners of tomorrow. School of Medicine The mission of the UConn School of Medicine is innovation, discovery and education. We train the next generation of medical students, residents, specialty fellows, and clinical practitioners in an environment of exemplary patient care, research, and public service. School of Dental Medicine The UConn School of Dental Medicine aims to benefit the people of the state of Connecticut and others through programs that support research and discovery of new knowledge, education and development of competent health care professionals, delivery of patient care services of high quality, and the promotion of health. Visit UConn Health Related Links UConn Health School of Dental Medicine School of Medicine The Graduate School 380+ doctors-in-training 150 future dentists Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut