Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Academics Academics Innovate and explore. Learning and academics are about exploring the things that interest you, growing with that knowledge, and finding the path on which you’ll be most successful. With 14 schools and colleges and more than 115+ undergraduate majors, you’ll find what you’re looking for at UConn. And what if you come up with something unique to study? You can create your own major. Whether you want to learn from the past by studying history or you want to set the course for the future with groundbreaking scientific research, learning opportunities here abound. Challenge yourself to reach new academic heights in rigorous courses taught by our expert faculty. Take advantage of undergraduate research awards including the Summer Undergraduate Research Fund or UConn IDEA Grants; study in a lab; or pursue a creative endeavor. Push yourself further, supplementing traditional coursework with enrichment such as Education Abroad or our acclaimed Honors Program. Whatever you choose, we’re here to help you find your passion, unleash your curiosity, and go forth to succeed. More than 50% of entering first-year students are in the top 10% of their senior classes Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut