Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Campus Life Campus Life It's all here. Storrs is a town-within-a-town, and there’s plenty here to make you feel at home. A diverse community, countless activities and forms of entertainment, and UConn sporting events are just the tip of the iceberg. Build your own community by getting involved in your choice of more than 700 student clubs or organizations, or by living among peers with common interests in one of our Living/Learning Communities. Learn about other cultures or discover more about your own through our six cultural centers. Of course, what’s college without some fun? At UConn, we offer plenty of popular, safe, and often free activities right on campus. With a movie theater, game room, TV lounges, and a food court, the Student Union has it all. Rather view an art exhibit or check out a stand-up comedian? We’ve got that, too. Dozens of lectures, plays, and concerts provide a much-deserved break. On-campus dining options suit every taste, ranging from buffet-style dining halls and take-out “Grab & Gos” to sit-down restaurants and cafés. Downtown Storrs, a walkable town center full of shops and restaurants, is just steps away. If all that isn’t enough, our picturesque campus is a beautiful place to explore. Related Links Campuses Student Activities Involvement Fair Community Outreach Recreation 1.3 million+ hours of community services are contributed by students annually Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut