Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Campuses Campuses Find your fit. Connecticut’s flagship university is truly integrated with the state, providing access to a top-quality UConn education at our main campus in Storrs, four regional campuses, and UConn Law and UConn Health. Storrs The University of Connecticut was founded as an agricultural school in 1881 thanks to a donation of land from brothers Charles and Augustus Storrs. More than 130 years later, UConn is ranked among the top 25 public universities in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report. From Horsebarn Hill to Downtown Storrs, our picturesque main campus is home to more than 19,000 undergraduates, as well as graduate students pursuing one of 17 graduate degrees or a doctorate in pharmacy. Located in the heart of the northeast, halfway between New York City and Boston, UConn’s main campus makes for an energizing and inspiring environment. Here, our students learn and create new knowledge alongside esteemed professors and talented peers. Our richly diverse and inclusive campus community is enhanced by more than 700 clubs and organizations, 24 NCAA Division I athletic teams, six cultural centers, five on-campus theaters, three museums, and one of the highest percentages of students living on campus of any public university. UConn Avery Point UConn Avery Point, located on Long Island Sound at the mouth of the Thames River in Groton, is a center of excellence for marine and maritime studies and delivers an outstanding education in more traditional areas of study. The Avery Point campus is home to the Connecticut Sea Grant College Program, Project Oceanology, the National Undersea Research Center, and the Long Island Sound Resource Center. In addition to completing a range of introductory and advanced courses, students can earn four-year degrees in American studies, English, general studies, marine sciences, maritime studies at UConn Avery Point. For graduate students, UConn Avery Point offers a master’s degree and a doctorate in oceanography, a master of engineering degree, the Certificate Entry into Nursing (CEIN/BS) Program, and a master’s degree in education and Connecticut Teacher Certification through the Teacher Certification Program for College Graduates. UConn Hartford Through ongoing partnerships with schools, businesses, government agencies, and national and neighborhood organizations, UConn Hartford’s downtown campus provides hands-on learning and serves as a model of community service, opportunity, and success. Earn a four-year degree in business administration, business data analytics, English, financial management, human development and family sciences, individualized & interdisciplinary studies program, marketing ,management, psychological sciences, social work, and urban and community studies. We offer master of public administration, survey research, and social work degrees, as well as a doctorate of social work and a master's in education, as well as the Teacher Certification Program for College Graduates. The School of Business Graduate Learning Center offers part-time, full-time and executive MBA programs, as well as three specialized MS programs in Business Analytics & Project Management, Financial Risk Management, and Human Resources Management. UConn Hartford Through ongoing partnerships with schools, businesses, government agencies, and national and neighborhood organizations, UConn Hartford’s downtown campus provides hands-on learning and serves as a model of community service, opportunity, and success. Earn a four-year degree in business administration, business data analytics, digital marketing analytics, English, financial management, general studies, human development and family studies, psychology, social work, or urban and community studies. We offer master of public administration, survey research, and social work degrees, as well as a doctorate of social work and a master's in education, as well as the Teacher Certification Program for College Graduates. The School of Business Graduate Learning Center offers part-time, full-time and executive MBA programs, as well as three specialized MS programs in Business Analytics & Project Management, Financial Risk Management, and Human Resources Management. UConn Stamford UConn Stamford is an urban campus in the center of one of the nation’s most robust business communities, surrounded by Fortune 500 headquarters. UConn Stamford students gain tremendous access to internships, field placements, and employment with global companies, investment and banking institutions, and community-based organizations in Stamford and in New York City, which is just a quick train ride away. Students can take the free campus shuttle to and from the train station. UConn Stamford offers four-year degrees in business administration, business data analytics, communication, computer science digital media and design, economics, English, financial management, human development and family sciences, history, marketing management, political science, and psychological sciences. At the graduate level, the Stamford campus offers master of business administration, master of science in financial risk management, and master of science in business analytics and project management degrees, as well as the Certificate Entry into Nursing (CEIN/BS) and Educational Leadership Doctoral programs. Students can apply to live in apartment-style University housing located just minutes from campus. UConn Stamford UConn Stamford is an urban campus in the center of one of the nation’s most robust business communities, surrounded by Fortune 500 headquarters. UConn Stamford students gain tremendous access to internships, field placements, and employment with global companies, investment and banking institutions, and community-based organizations in Stamford and in New York City, which is just a quick train ride away. Students can take the free campus shuttle to and from the train station. UConn Stamford offers four-year degrees in business administration, business data analytics, computer science, digital marketing and analytics, digital media and design, economics, English, financial management, general studies, history, human development and family studies, political science, and psychology. At the graduate level, the Stamford campus offers master of business administration, master of science in financial risk management, and master of science in business analytics and project management degrees, as well as the Certificate Entry into Nursing (CEIN/BS) and Educational Leadership Doctoral programs. Students can apply to live in apartment-style University housing located just minutes from campus. UConn Waterbury With its modern facilities in the heart of Waterbury’s revitalized downtown, UConn Waterbury has opened the doors to educational access and excellence for thousands of students. UConn Waterbury students grow and achieve through rigorous academic programs and community engagement. UConn Waterbury offers undergraduate degrees in allied health sciences, American studies, business administration, business data analytics, English, human development and family sciences, psychological sciences, and urban and community studies in partnership with UConn Hartford. At the graduate level, UConn Waterbury offers master of business administration and master of engineering degrees, the Certificate Entry into Nursing (CEIN/BS) Program, and a master’s degree in education and Connecticut Teacher Certification through the Teacher Certification Program for College Graduates. UConn School of Law The UConn School of Law is located just minutes from the State Capitol in Hartford, as well as the offices of Hartford's law firms and corporations. Our students have ready access to all of these institutions for study, externships, clinical education and practice, and employment. Founded in 1921 as the Hartford College of Law, the UConn School of Law is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Our program emphasizes intellectual discipline and the development of the professional analytic skills required to respond effectively to the challenge of continuing change in the law and in the society it serves. UConn School of Law The UConn School of Law is located just minutes from the State Capitol in Hartford, as well as the offices of Hartford's law firms and corporations. Our students have ready access to all of these institutions for study, externships, clinical education and practice, and employment. Founded in 1921 as the Hartford College of Law, the UConn School of Law is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Our program emphasizes intellectual discipline and the development of the professional analytic skills required to respond effectively to the challenge of continuing change in the law and in the society it serves. UConn Health The UConn Health campus in Farmington is home to the UConn John Dempsey Hospital and a robust academic medical center, the UConn School of Medicine, the UConn School of Dental Medicine, and a thriving research enterprise. At UConn Health, students are able to pursue a their education in an innovative and hands-on environment, and patients can receive the advantages of the latest innovations and research in health care. The conception of the Farmington campus began in 1961, when the Connecticut General Assembly approved legislation authorizing $2 million to plan and develop a medical-dental school in Hartford County. Today, UConn Health has entered an era of unprecedented growth in all three areas of its mission: academics, research, and clinical care. Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut