Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Explore your options. Choosing the right major is a pretty big deal. That’s why it helps to have choices. And with more than 115+ undergraduate majors to choose from across 14 schools and colleges, you’re bound to find something that inspires you. If we don’t offer the major you’re looking for, you can work with a faculty advisor to create your own individualized major and course of study. After you’ve completed your bachelor’s degree, advance your education at the graduate and professional levels. We offer several opportunities through 17 graduate degree and 6 professional practice degree programs. 115+ majors 14 schools & colleges Related Links Undergraduate Majors Online Programs Office of the Provost The Major Experience Undergraduate Catalog College of Agriculture, Health and Natural Resources School of Business School of Dental Medicine School of Engineering School of Fine Arts The Graduate School School of Law College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Medicine Neag School of Education School of Nursing School of Pharmacy Ratcliffe Hicks School of Agriculture School of Social Work College of Agriculture, Health and Natural Resources School of Business School of Dental Medicine School of Engineering School of Fine Arts The Graduate School School of Law College of Liberal Arts and Sciences School of Medicine Neag School of Education School of Nursing School of Pharmacy Ratcliffe Hicks School of Agriculture School of Social Work Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut