Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Research Research Seek deeper understanding. At UConn, our faculty, staff, and students are dedicated to learning more about the world around them through research. That’s what makes us one of the nation’s Top 25 public universities. With annual expenditures in excess of $260 million, collaborative research is carried out within the departments of our 14 schools and colleges and at our more than 80 research centers and institutes. We’re here to drive the future of innovation. Businesses can partner with us to tap into myriad resources, from the thousands of scientists on our faculty to our Technology Incubation Program and beyond. We help make groundbreaking advancements in emerging areas, working to enhance the nation’s hardware security at the Center for Hardware Assurance, Security, and Engineering; figuring out how to build everything from jet engines to spaceship parts using advanced three-dimensional printing technology at the Pratt & Whitney Additive Manufacturing Innovation Center; developing sustainable energy systems at the Center for Clean Energy Engineering; and so much more. Visit UConn Research Related Links Vice President for Research Office of Undergraduate Research Bioscience Connecticut Next Generation Connecticut UConn Technology Park Business Partnerships Tech Transfer & Venture Development Entrepreneurship & Innovation Consortium UConn Library Libraries Database Locator Open Commons Research Compliance Services Sponsored Program Services 80+ research centers and institutes Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut