Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Prospective Students Prospective Students On, Together At the University of Connecticut, we each have the potential to be something great. We’re tenacious. We’re fierce. We’re ready. Because here, we’re Huskies. What we start has the power to go on and on and on. On to bigger ideas. On to better answers. On to what matters most. Be a part of the next generation of Huskies who join together to inspire new possibilities, improve lives, and light the way forward. Apply for Undergraduate Admission Apply for Graduate Admission Related Links Undergraduate Admissions The Graduate School UConn Online Open House UConn First Summer Summer Session Winter Session 93% of students return for their sophomore year Incoming First-Year Students At UConn our incoming students are more academically accomplished than ever before. Learn to ask the big questions and discover how to answer them. Couple your curiosity, attitude, and initiative with a UConn education to gain an edge as you take on the world. Info for Incoming First-Year Students Transfer Students Students transfer to UConn for our exceptional academic programs and vibrant student life. Whether from a community college or another University, we make it simple to finish a degree at UConn. Info for Transfer Students International Students Students from more than 100 countries choose to come to UConn not just for our rigorous academic programs and cutting-edge research opportunities, but also for our richly diverse and inclusive community. Info for International Students Graduate Students UConn provides a rich environment for graduate study, whether you are pursuing a doctoral or master’s degree, or are interested in a certificate program. Our graduate school is committed to creating a supportive network where students can pursue independent research and meet their educational goals. Info for Graduate Students Non-Degree Students Students who have not been formally accepted as degree-seeking students at UConn can take undergraduate and graduate-level courses through the Non-Degree Study program. Info for Non-Degree Students Online Learning UConn offers hundreds of convenient online courses and several online graduate degree and certificate programs, taught by the same renowned faculty who teach our on-campus classes. Info about Online Learning Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut