Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip to Content UConn Search University of Connecticut A to Z Index Menu Close mobile nav menu A-Z Index Search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Costs Visit Campus About Us Administration History Academics Schools and Colleges Academic Resources Enrichment Opportunities Campus Life Living on Campus Campus Health & Safety Arts & Culture Activities & Recreation Research Athletics UConn Health Campuses Campus Health & Safety Campus Health & Safety Feel secure. The safety and well-being of our students is our top priority. Our professional public safety, health services, and institutional equity units are dedicated to your welfare, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Public Safety UConn’s police and fire departments provide safety and security for all of our students at the Storrs campus. In addition, UConn Police has substations and personnel at our campuses in Avery Point, Farmington, Hartford (Downtown and UConn Law), Stamford, and Waterbury. In the event of an emergency, our campus-wide Alert Notification Systeminforms the community of the situation, its severity, and the appropriate actions to take. Students are automatically registered to receive alerts using information provided in the Student Administration System. Students are encouraged to ensure their information is up-to-date. Related Links Dining Services Division of Public Safety Residential Life Campus Map Transportation Student Health and Wellness UConn Student Health and Wellness offers medical care, mental health, pharmacy, health promotion and outreach, and more. Office of Institutional Equity UConn is committed to creating and maintaining a campus environment free from all forms of discrimination and harassment, including sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating/domestic violence, and stalking. The Office of Institutional Equity (OIE) ensures the University’s commitment and responsibility to foster equitable and inclusive working and learning environments. OIE investigates University conduct code and policy violations when the accused individual is a UConn student or employee, including investigations of sexual misconduct. OIE’s Associate Vice President and Title IX Coordinator, Letissa Reid, is responsible for ensuring that all reports are addressed by UConn. For more information about sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating/domestic violence and stalking reporting and resources, please visit titleix.uconn.edu. Visit Us On Tiktok Visit Us On Facebook Visit Us On Twitter Visit Us On YouTube Visit Us On Instagram Visit Us On LinkedIn Discover UConn Admissions About Us Academics Campus Life Research Athletics UConn Health Quick Links A-Z Index Careers Construction Entrepreneurship Giving Global Information For Prospective Students Students Alumni Visitors Business Partners Faculty & Staff Storrs, Connecticut 06269 (860) 486-2000 UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy, & Copyright Accessibility © 2021 University of Connecticut