Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of University Counseling Services Main Menu In this section About Us About Our Clinic Staff Parent/Family Information Services Find Help Virtual Services Grief Counseling Group Counseling Help Others Help Students in Distress Counseling Referrals Training Resources University Counseling Podcast TAO Online OSU Labyrinths Home Services Alcohol and Substance Abuse Counseling Alcohol & Substance Abuse Center Services Student Counseling Center Alcohol & Substance Abuse Reboot Center Grief Counseling Group Counseling Emergency Contacts 911 Call SAM, 1-855-225-2SAM (2726) (Student Assistance by Mercy) OSU Police, 405-744-6523 Wings of Hope Crisis Line, 405-624-3020 National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, 800-273-8255 Military OneSource (service members, veterans & families), 800-342-9647 Oklahoma Mental Health & Substance Abuse Crisis Line, 800-566-1343 24/7 Crisis Line - Grand Lake Mental Health Center, 800-722-3611 ASAC Services The Alcohol and Substance Abuse Center (ASAC) is committed to providing quality, confidential services for OSU students affected by problems related to substance abuse. We promote and provide innovative, campus-based services that improve well-being and quality of life. The goal of the ASAC is to help students maximize their potential by supporting their intellectual, personal and social growth. Staff Amy Anderson M.Ed. LPC, LADC 320 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 405-744-5458 Kara Niccum M.S., LMFT, LADC 320 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 405-744-5458 About ASAC Reasons for students to use ASAC services Alcohol or Substance Abuse concerns with: Dependency Addiction Relapse prevention Current use or misuse Interventions Co-dependency Student Conduct or Residential life referral for alcohol or drug violations, public intoxication, social host, and minor in possession. Assessments for substance abuse court/legal issues and requirements. Trauma or disturbing event resolution Individual, family and group counseling Alcohol and substance abuse education, resources and referrals What are the different assessments, which type to ask for, and how much will it cost? Assessments are usually referred from student conduct, residential life, or court ordered as a result of an arrest, legal requirements or student conduct violations. Assessments help determine if alcohol or substance abuse criteria are met and then a recommend level of intervention is given. Student’s may complete their required recommendations through ASAC or outside referrals will be given. The following assessments are offered: Assessment Codes & Fees: 1) B - $100 Court Ordered Alcohol/Drug Assessment - 1 ½ hour appointment Provided by a Licensed Alcohol and Drug Counselor Students charged with an alcohol or drug related offense that require a court ordered assessment. Could include, but not limited to : Public Intoxication, UIP, Fake ID, transporting an open container, possession of any illegal drug or paraphernalia). Recommendation report is given to student at the end of the assessment. 2) C - $50 OSU Alcohol/Drug Assessment-NOT used in court proceedings-1 hour appointment Provided by ASAC staff or supervised graduate student Students charged with a Residential Life or Student Conduct substance related offense that does NOT require a court ordered assessment for. Could including, but not limited to: UIP, possession of alcohol in Residential Life, possession of marijuana, possession of paraphernalia, or the smell of marijuana. Recommendation report is given to student at the end of the assessment. 3) D –Alcohol Incapacitation Intake - No Charge- 1 hour appointment Provided by ASAC staff or supervised graduate student Student was transported to the hospital for alcohol incapacitation or possible alcohol related medical required attention. Recommendation report is given to student at the end of the assessment. 4) Marijuana Education Class – No Charge -2 sessions, 1 hour each. Provided by ASAC staff or supervised graduate student Students who are referred from residential life or student conduct for marijuana rule violations. Must be on time and complete time and participation requirements to receive completion certificate. No charge – unless no show or late cancelation. Required ASAC Counseling Fees: $10 per session - ASAC Individual Counseling $60 – Alcohol & Other Drug Group (1 session a wk for 6 wks) $100 – Alcohol & Other Drug Group (1 session a wk for 12 wks) $130 – Alcohol & Other Drug Group (2 sessions a wk for 12 wks) (Group fees include 15 minute group intake & materials, but not assessment fees.) Voluntary – Counseling Fees: Intake & first 4 sessions no charge $10 – ASAC Individual Counseling starting 5th session $10 No Charge for Group Sessions Fees for court-ordered assessments may not be charged to your Bursar account. ASAC accepts cash or check only for the exact amount. For questions or to schedule an assessment, call 405-744-5458 or come by 320 Student Union. What happens in a counseling session? It is normal to feel some apprehension when first coming to counseling. ASAC offers a professional, safe, and nonjudgmental environment where you may speak privately, yet openly about concerns, thoughts and feelings. An ASAC counselor or supervised graduate intern will help you gain insight into your concerns about how alcohol or substance use is affecting your life today and explore options for change. What if I don't want anyone to know I'm seeing a counselor? Confidentiality is taken seriously at ASAC. Only you have the right to tell others you are speaking to a counselor. ASAC staff are ethically and legally bound and committed to maintain your privacy. There are specific exceptions to confidentiality that will be explained when you initiate counseling. Who can schedule an assessment or appointment? Currently enrolled OSU students are eligible for ASAC services. To schedule an appointment or assessment, call 405-744-5458 or come by 320 Student Union. Normally, for your first session, you will see an ASAC counselor or supervised graduate student for an intake. Individual, group and other available options will be presented at this time, so you will be able to discuss and choose the plan that fits best with you and your schedule. What is the cost for voluntary counseling? For voluntary counseling with ASAC, the intake appointment and four additional counseling sessions are free per academic year. Sessions 5-12 cost $10 per session. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©