Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Event Management Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Affiliations Events Venues Services Policies & Forms Reserve/Request A Quote About Us Columbia Students Faculty & Staff Guests Browse Event Possibilities Filming on Campus Meetings & Conferences Performances Student Events Weddings & Social Events Event Gallery Accessibility Our Venues View All Venues Butler Hall Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel Outdoor Spaces Residence Hall Lounges Classrooms Partner Venues Other Columbia Venues AV/Technical Services Explore AV/Technical Services Request AV/Technical Services Catering Services Explore Catering Services Request Catering Services Event Logistics Access & Security Custodial Services Electrical & Carpentry Support Vendor Recommendations Event Setup & Additional Services Specialty Events Barbecue Events on Campus Events with Alcohol Filming on Campus View All Services All Policies & Forms Quick View of Our Forms First-Time Customers & Guests Request a Quote for Event Space Request AV/Technical Services Quote Request Catering Services Quote Faculty, Staff & Students Log-in to EMS Request an EMS Account Our Service Promise Our Team News Sustainability Work With Us Event Management Home HELPING YOU PLAN AMAZING EVENTS Whether you are a student, faculty or staff member, or one of our many guests, our team is dedicated to helping you plan and conduct amazing events that your attendees will remember. For guests of Columbia, not affiliated with University. Columbia Affiliates with an active UNI should submit requests through EMS. Understanding current COVID-19 protocols for events on campus. map-signs icon Resources by Affiliation We've grouped our venues, services and information for students, faculty and staff, or outside guests so you can find everything you need in one place. bank icon Our Venues Our venues provide an option for every event, from formal dinners and social events, to small meetings and conference sessions. gears icon Our Services We offer a whole host of services to help elevate your event to the next level, from experienced audio/visual support to top quality catering offerings. group icon Our Team Our team of event management professionals are committed to your success and will work with you every step of the way. NEW & NOTEWORTHY New space, service and food offerings to make your next event shine. New Wallach ESPORTS Room Students were treated to a preview of the new Wallach ESPORTS Room, set to open in fall 2022. The former Wallach lounge has been transformed to a state-of-the-art e-gaming room for undergraduate students, thanks to a generous donation made by University Trustee Shirley Wang BUS’93 and Walter Wang. SUPPORT CCS AND CHOOSE BLUE When you choose from the Blue Menu for your event, portion of your bill ($5 per person) is donated to Columbia Community Service, a University-based initiative to support local nonprofit organizations. Event Management will match the contribution, donating an additional $5 for each of your guests. SUSTAINABLE LIVING MENU The Sustainable Living Menu features a curated selection of dishes that showcase the finest locally-sourced fare. In choosing the Sustainable Living menu in place of other menu options, clients will receive a delicious meal while reducing their event’s environmental impact. NEW GRAB & GO OFFERINGS Check out our new Campus Catering menu with expanded Grab & Go options, including the all-new Columbia Combo, inside a brand new gold-leaf bag designed by Columbia Print. VIEW OUR NEWSLETTER Stay up-to-date with Event Management! View our most recent newsletter for a recap of recent events, new and improved service offerings, and a look ahead to what's in store. WE'RE READY: LET'S GO VIRTUAL! Current conditions have changed everything about the way we all work today -- and we've changed with it. We've upgraded our equipment, expertise, and capabilities and are here to help you continue to host Ivy League-class events, from virtual meetings and conferences to live, global broadcasts. Columbia Event Management is here and ready to support you today & tomorrow. A Truly Unique NYC Location An aerial view of Columbia University's Morningside Campus at night. CAMPUS LANDMARK in a great metropolis. ICONIC SPACES full of beauty and history. The scenic view from Faculty House's Sky Lounge. MAKE A TOAST to the panoramic views. Lerner Hall Roone Arledge Auditorium set up banquet-style. BE OUR GUEST for a special event. Columbia University Event Management2920 Broadway, Lerner Hall 7th floor · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-5800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close