Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Dean of Students » University Exploratory Studies Program Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Home UESP Staff List and Appointment Scheduling About Advising Services UESP Ecampus Exploration This Week About Us Approaches to Major Exploration Major Exploration Tools & Resources Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Us UESP Staff List & Appointment Scheduling Advising Syllabus & UESP Learning Outcomes UESP Annual Reports Approaches to Major Exploration Explore by Person-Environment Fit Explore Thematically Explore Specifically Exploration Course Major Exploration Tools & Resources Exploration To-Do List Focus2 Other Web Resources Welcome to the University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) Whether you're an incoming first-year student or are hoping to change your major, we have plenty of resources to help you find the right degree program and make the most out of your time at Oregon State University Spring Term 2022 Our office will be open 8:00 -5:00 except on Monday, May 30 (holiday closure). If you stop by in-person, masks are welcome but are not required. For most of our advisors, students have the option to choose either an in-person or remote advising via Zoom. Use the buttons below to link to information on appointment scheduling. You can reach our office by phone at 541-737-8144. PLEASE NOTE! Our office space in 102 Waldo Hall is being painted the week of May 23, so we will only have appointments available over Zoom that week. Appointment Scheduling I'm Currently in UESP and Need to Schedule with an Advisor I'm Declared, but I Want to Talk with a UESP Advisor Registration Troubleshooting Registration Troubleshooting Website Zoom Registration Troubleshooting Drop-in Hours uespsfaq.jpg Current OSU Corvallis Students ecamptile.jpg UESP Ecampus uesppf.jpg Prospective Students/New to OSU uesppffaq.jpg Parents & Family uespetw.jpg Exploration This Week What is UESP? The University Exploratory Studies Program (UESP) is the academic home for students who have chosen to explore their options prior to deciding on a major. UESP is very similar to Oregon State's academic colleges, as we provide academic support to assure that our students are making satisfactory progress toward a degree. We offer a comprehensive range of services to help students make informed decisions about their academic coursework and potential majors they're considering. View UESP's annual reports. What if I've Already Declared a Major? It's a very common experience for students to realize that their initial major choice is not the right fit. If that's your experience, don't panic! UESP is here to help you figure out which direction is right for you. You're welcome to switch to UESP or even just consult with one of our advisors. Either way only requires that you make an appointment. Contact our office at 541737-8144 or visit this page to schedule an appointment. UESP on Twitter Tweets by @OSU_UESP Contact Info Oregon State University University Exploratory Studies Program 102 Waldo Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-8144 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer