Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Explore Core & Flag Requirements Internal Transfers Tutoring & Support Research Posters Placement Exams News Home » teaching » Assessment Assessment Assessment efforts in the School of Undergraduate Studies (UGS) seek to understand how our programs promote student learning and effective teaching. Our approach is action centered. We emphasize using results to initiate program improvement by providing assessment data that are timely, specific, and relevant to a variety of audiences, including faculty, staff, students, campus leaders, and accrediting organizations. Signature Courses The Signature Course is a first-year seminar that serves as the cornerstone of the core curriculum and plays a central role in our students’ early college careers. Signature Course assessment is guided by the Quality Enhancement Plan submitted to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges in partial fulfillment of accreditation reaffirmation requirements. We implement rigorous assessment for the courses, partnering with faculty, students, and UGS staff to ensure a high quality teaching and learning experience. To learn more about Signature Course assessment, visit the faculty assessment information page. Program Evaluation Each UGS unit completes a yearly assessment plan designed to facilitate evidence-based program improvement. Units assess student learning outcomes, efficiency of services, stakeholder satisfaction, and participation trends. Flag Courses Flags are part of the undergraduate Core Curriculum, representing six areas in which students must complete coursework. We are currently reviewing Flag course syllabi to ensure they meet the guidelines established by Faculty Council, the Flag committees, and the UGS Advisory Committee. Assessment Staff Our assessment efforts are led by Jennifer Nailos, UGS Director of Assessment and Professional Development. For general inquiries, please email the assessment office. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy