Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Sanger Learning Center Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Sanger Learning Center Academic Support Free Classes & Workshops Study Strategies Instructor Resources Graduate Student Resources Meet Student Leaders Mission Meet Our Staff Jobs Contact Us Make an Appointment Sign up for one-on-one tutoring Request a workshop Request a Peer Academic Coach Talk to a Learning Specialist Work on a speech Find Us Beauford H. Jester Center (JES) Room A332 201 E. 21st Street Austin, TX – 78705 512-471-3614 Visit the Sanger Learning Center on Facebook Follow the Sanger Learning Center on Twitter Follow the Sanger Learning Center on Instagram Home » slc » Jobs Job Opportunities at the Sanger Learning Center Be part of our team! You’ll have the opportunity to earn money and gain valuable work experience while helping other students. Most positions offer flexible work hours and opportunities to work remotely. Plus, you can combine more than one Sanger position for up to 19 hours per week. Please note: If hired, you will be required to complete the federal Employment Eligibility Verification form, I-9. Public Speaking Center Graduate Assistant Hours/Pay: 10 hours per week, $25/hour (This position is eligible for health benefits and a one-year commitment is preferred) Applications open: May 2nd Applications close: May 31st Contact for Questions: Dr. Erin Cotter, Public Speaking Center Coordinator, erin.cotter@austin.utexas.edu Purpose The Public Speaking Center Graduate Assistant (PSC GA) supports the Public Speaking Center and Outreach programs in the Sanger Learning Center in the School of Undergraduate Studies. The Public Speaking Center is a free resource for all UT students. Trained undergraduate consultants help students in hour-long one-on-one or group appointments at any stage of the planning or rehearsal process for presentations, speeches, job interviews, and more. This person will provide support through developing public speaking workshops, mentorship and supervision of undergraduate employees, and providing direct student support services through appointments and/or workshops. The Public Speaking Center This GA position is ideal for a graduate student interested in exploring careers in higher educator in or outside of the classroom. The duties involve working with student support services, undergraduate students, and higher education administration. Details Hours/pay: 10 hours per week, $25/hour. Flexible weekly schedule that includes both in-person and virtual work. This position provides UT Select health insurance when combined with an existing 20-hour UT appointment. Access to private office space in Jester Center. Commitment: August-May 31st. 8/1 start date preferred, but can be flexible. Friendly work environment that includes a large community of growth-minded full-time staff and student-educators. Required Qualifications Bachelor’s degree. Enrolled as a graduate student at UT for the 2022-2023 academic year. Demonstrated commitment to student well-being and student academic achievement/success. Understanding of challenges faced by UT (or similar university) undergraduate students. Experience giving presentations or speeches to diverse audiences. Excellent written and oral communication skills. Preferred Qualifications PhD candidate in Communication Studies or related field. Classroom teaching experience. Experience working with diverse populations. Experience coaching others in public speaking. APPLY HERE Peer-Led Undergraduate Study Peer Coordinator Hours: Eight hours per week Starting rate: $14/hour Requirements: Enrolled in at least 12 credit hours Applications are open in April. A Peer-Led Undergraduate Study (PLUS) Peer Coordinator (PC) is an undergraduate student who manages the coordination of PLUS study groups. PCs mentor a team of facilitators (select students currently enrolled in the PLUS-supported course) to create successful study group experiences. Specifically, PCs: Recruit, select, supervise, and evaluate a team of approximately 3-15 study group facilitators Lead weekly planning meetings with the facilitators and professor Create and improve upon study group agendas Observe facilitators during study groups (twice over the course of the semester) and provide written and verbal feedback Maintain ongoing communication with the PLUS coordinator, professor, facilitators, and students in the course Qualified applicants are full-time UT students who have successfully completed the PLUS-supported course. Preference will be given to students who have served as a PLUS facilitator in the past. APPLY HERE Supplemental Instruction (SI) Leaders (Multiple disciplines) Hours: 10 hours per week (six hours per week for BIO) Starting rate: $14/hour Requirements: Any full-time UT Austin student who has taken all of the prerequisite courses Preferences: Students who have received at least a B in the course they support (see here for a list of currently SI-supported courses). Applications close on May 5, 2022 A Supplemental Instruction (SI) Leader is an undergraduate student who is assigned to a specific course and facilitates two to three identical 50-minute sessions a week. SI Leaders (except biology) attend the lecture of the course to which they are assigned, plan and conduct their sessions using collaborative activities to combine course content with effective study strategies, and meet weekly as a group to collaborate on planning and troubleshooting their sessions. Qualified applicants can be any full-time UT student who has taken all of the prerequisites and preferences are given to those who have received at least a B in the course they support (see here for a list of currently SI-supported courses). SI leaders work approximately 10 hours per week: three hours of attending class, two hours of planning sessions, two to three hours of facilitating identical SI sessions (depending on the course), one hour of a weekly cohort meeting, and one hour of administrative tasks. The Supplemental Instruction program is dedicated to being an inclusive and equitable program, so we highly encourage students who have experienced struggle (academic or otherwise) to apply. This position and the program value those who can provide compassionate facilitation and leadership to their peers. APPLY HERE Supplemental Instruction Supervisors in ECO, CS & ECE, and Chem Graduate SI Supervisors: 8-10 hours per week ($25/hr) Undergraduate SI Supervisors: Eight hours per week ($17/hr) Applications open: April 11 Applications close: May 5 Contact: Stephanie Craven (she/they), stephanie.craven@austin.utexas.edu The Supplemental Instruction (SI) Supervisor works with Sanger Learning Center professional staff to implement the SI program. The SI Supervisor manages the SI Leaders within their discipline, directs meetings, conducts observations, and facilitates professional development activities and trainings. Teaching experience or experience leading Supplemental Instruction sessions is preferred but not required. Responsibilities: Supervise a team of SI Leaders who lead SI sessions in the content area Plan and lead weekly leaders’ meetings and professional development activities Participate in required training sessions and program meetings Conduct SI leader observations and feedback meetings Maintain regular communication with Sanger Learning Center SI Coordinator Complete administrative tasks in a timely manner Collaborate with faculty and academic departments as needed Eligibility: To be eligible for the SI Supervisor position, applicants must be: Graduate students in economics Undergraduate or graduate students in computer science, engineering, and/or chemistry Must be full-time and if graduate student, must meet the university’s conditions for graduate student employment. Available to assist with pre-semester training (Aug. 18 and 19 2022) and weekly SI Leader meetings Preference is given to experienced instructors or SI Leaders with an interest in college-level teaching, student-centered learning, and leadership/management opportunities Economics Supervisors are appointed to a TA stipend through the Economics Department but apply through Sanger. APPLY HERE Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy