Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Reading Round-Up Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Home » events » Reading Round-Up Events Sunday, August 21, 2022 REGISTER Reading Round-Up The day before fall classes begin, professors and freshmen meet all over campus to talk about books they read over the summer. This is an opportunity to read a great book, meet an outstanding faculty member, and get acquainted with a small group of fellow first-year students. Come to your Reading Round-Up meeting prepared for lively discussion. Expect an informal and relaxed atmosphere—you will not be grilled about details or put on the spot. What does the professor expect of you? Only that you read the book, arrive on time, participate as much as possible, and stay for the entire discussion. Be sure to check out a campus map to look up the building where your discussion is meeting. Give yourself plenty of time to find the building and the room before the session begins. We hope you’ll come away from the Round-Up with a glimmer of what this university is about—a place where ideas abound, inquiry is encouraged, and discoveries—both large and small—happen every day. For questions or more information about the Reading Round-Up, contact us at frr@austin.utexas.edu. WHEN Sunday, August 21, 2022 - 1:30pm to 3:00pm 2022-08-21 18:30:00 2022-08-21 20:00:00 America/Chicago Reading Round-Up The day before fall classes begin, professors and freshmen meet all over campus to talk about books they read over the summer. This is an opportunity to read a great book, meet an outstanding faculty member, and get acquainted with a small group of fellow ... Classrooms all over campus University of Texas at Austin, Reading Round-Up WHERE Classrooms all over campus Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy