Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Reading Round-Up Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Freshman Reading Round-Up About the Meetings Past Book Lists Academy of Distinguished Teachers Why Participate? Don't Miss Aug 21 Reading Round-Up 1:30pm to 3:00pm Classrooms all over campus Find Us Main Building (MAI) Room 202 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas – 78712 512-475-7000 Home » Reading Round-Up Reading Round-Up The University of Texas at Austin is first and foremost a place of ideas. To give you an early start on exploring this exciting environment, some of the university’s finest professors invite members of the Class of 2026 to join the twentieth annual Reading Round-Up. Faculty members select books for your summer reading and lead small group discussions on campus the day before fall classes start. How to Participate Browse the list of books, pick one you’d like to read, and sign up online. Then, purchase or borrow the book and read it before school starts in August. We keep groups small, so if your first choice is already full, look for another book that appeals to you; there are plenty to choose from. REGISTER FOR THE READING ROUND-UP Who Can Participate? Only entering first-year students so groups stay small and everyone is in the same boat. If you are interested but not eligible, please peruse past book lists for reading ideas. For questions or more information about the Reading Round-Up, email us. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy