Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Awards & Honors Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Awards & Honors Scholarships & Awards Current Student Scholarships UGS Dean's List Summer Exploration Grants Texas Exes Home to Texas Scholarship Resources Mentorships Honors Societies Contact Us Find Us Dean’s List, Summer Exploration Grant, Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Kappa Phi Main Building (MAI) Room 202 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, TX – 78712 512-475-7000 Alpha Lambda Delta & Phi Eta Sigma Flawn Academic Center Room 338 2304 Whitis Ave Austin, TX – 78705 512-471-4421 Home » awards » Scholarships & Awards Scholarships & Awards The School of Undergraduate Studies (UGS) supports application processes for several prestigious national scholarships and awards, as well as grants awarded by UGS. UT students have successfully competed for each of these awards. We encourage today’s Longhorns to continue the tradition. Please read the descriptions and instructions carefully and contact the dean’s office with any questions. Scholarships for current UGS students Macalik Endowed Scholarship in Undergraduate Studies Courtney and Doug Swanson Endowed Scholarship in Undergraduate Studies W. Sue Ragle Career Exploration Scholarship UGS Dean’s List UGS Summer Exploration Grants Study Abroad Grants sponsored by Phi Kappa Phi Undergraduate Research Grants Home to Texas Home to Texas is a summer internship program that encourages UT undergraduates to work in their hometowns by providing well-paid internships and experiences designed to help them understand the underlying values of their home communities. The IC² Institute has partnered with UGS for the program, matching undergraduate students looking for summer work in their hometowns with employers in those locations who are seeking students with fresh and informed perspectives. First-year (and in some cases second-year) students from all majors are eligible. During their summer experience, in addition to working for a local employer for 40 hours each week, Home to Texas students interview community and civic leaders, connect with the local UT Austin alumni network and report on what they have learned. Forty Acres Scholarship In partnership with the Texas Exes, Undergraduate Studies supports students with the creation of several Forty Acres Scholarships. The Forty Acres Scholars Program is a four-year merit scholarship created by the Texas Exes Scholarship Foundation to recruit and recognize exceptional students. Its offerings go far beyond full tuition, developing a rich college experience that provides academic, leadership, cultural, and team-building activities. The Forty Acres Scholarship attracts high-achieving, intellectually curious students who plan to explore academic options while on campus. Other Scholarship Resources Numerous opportunities for scholarships, fellowships, and awards exist across the university. More information about awards not directly affiliated with the School of Undergraduate Studies, including the Rhodes, Truman, and Marshall Scholarships, can be found on the Scholarship Resources page or visit the Texas Exes Scholarship page. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy