Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Core Curriculum Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Core Curriculum About Core Curriculum Courses Student/Advisor Resources Faculty Resources Propose a Core Course Core Objectives Deadlines Course Inventory Resources Advisory Committee Contact Us About About Find Us Main Building (MAI) Room 202 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, Texas – 78712 512-475-7000 Home » core-curriculum » faculty-resources » Propose a Core Course Propose a Course The proposal process helps the Core Curriculum Advisory Committee (CCAC) determine whether a course meets the Student Competencies, which are UT Austin developed criteria based on the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) Core Objectives and definitions of each Core Curriculum component area. Before you begin your proposal, please review the Student Competencies and the Core Objectives resources page. Instructors, departmental staff, and colleges/schools should use the online system to submit Core Course proposals for their courses. Staff in the Core Curriculum office can assist with the Core Course proposal process. Each department, center, or academic program follows its own process and guidelines, which are established by each college or school. Proposed changes must be submitted in accordance with internal deadlines. Those planning a change should consult their dean before proceeding. To complete a Core Course proposal, you will need the following information: Course Number1 (If current course number is a topics course number, please note that in the proposal) Course Title Syllabus and/or documentation that covers: Class readings or texts Topics/content covered in the course Assignments and activities that address how the course meets the Student Competencies and THECB required definitions and Core Objectives. ENTER CORE COURSE PROPOSAL SYSTEM 1 If this course number will be new in the UT inventory and is not yet final, do not let this deter you from submitting your proposal. Email the Core Curriculum Office about potential course number changes. Proposed changes are not ratified until they have received approval by Faculty Council and final approval by the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB). Changing or Removing Courses in the Core Curriculum Email the Core Curriculum Office if you plan to remove a course from the course inventory, or to change it so that it no longer will fulfill Core Curriculum requirements, please let UGS know as soon as possible (and no later than Sept. 30, 2022) so that we can officially retire the course from the Core Curriculum for 2023-24. a course title is being changed, the registrar’s office may require that it be given a new course number, which means that it will have to be added to the Core Curriculum list as a new course. If you are considering this, please let UGS staff know as soon as possible. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy