Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Explore Core & Flag Requirements Internal Transfers Tutoring & Support Research Posters Placement Exams News Home » Core & Flag Requirements Core & Flag Requirements The degree plan of every undergraduate student at The University of Texas at Austin includes three components: core curriculum and Flag requirements, major requirements, and electives. Together, these components produce self-reliant graduates who will become leaders in their chosen professions and communities. The core represents a university-wide commitment to general education, incorporating the perspectives of an array of academic disciplines and including courses taught by faculty members from every college and school. Core Curriculum View the course requirements for the core curriculum. The 42-hour core curriculum is required for all students, regardless of major. The core begins with a common intellectual experience known as the first-year Signature Course and includes coursework in English composition, literature, government, history, social sciences, mathematics, natural sciences and technology, and visual and performing arts. These requirements allow students to put their major coursework into a broader intellectual context and understand how other disciplines raise and answer important questions. The core also facilitates the exploration of prospective majors and can serve as a foundation for more advanced coursework within the major. Skills & Experience Flags Learn how to fulfill Flag requirements. Students gain experience in writing, quantitative reasoning, global cultures, cultural diversity, ethics, and independent inquiry by completing core, major, and elective courses carrying flags in the aforementioned areas. Flags are taught across the curriculum so that students learn about writing or ethical decision-making, for example, in the context of their own discipline. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy