Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Signature Courses Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Signature Courses About Courses Register Student Resources Faculty Resources Teaching Assistants Undergraduate Assistants Signature Course Stories Contact Us Find Us Flawn Academic Center (FAC) Room 338 2304 Whitis Avenue Austin, Texas – 78712 512-471-4421 Home » Signature Courses Signature Courses The Signature Course (UGS 302 and 303) introduces first-year students to the university’s academic community through the exploration of new interests. The Signature Course is your opportunity to engage in college-level thinking and learning. We design a variety of courses by matching student interests with faculty expertise from every college and school at the university. The result is a common intellectual experience for all first-year students. Delve into stories about our groundbreaking Signature Courses. Or take a quick look at our latest newsletter, which showcases outstanding Signature Courses, profiles faculty and TAs, and provides information about upcoming events. Summer 2022 update: The First-Year Experience team remains committed to supporting our students, faculty, and staff members during this challenging semester. We will be available on campus by appointment only during this time. We are also available for student, faculty, and staff questions via phone, email, or video conference. If you have questions, need support, or would like to schedule a time to meet, please send us an email. Step Outside the Obvious Don’t feel restricted by your major or college when choosing your course. This is a great opportunity to explore, and many concepts in the Signature Course, for example, the emphasis on writing and public speaking, will be useful whichever major you declare. If you plan to major in business, take “Geosciences in the Media”. Prospective anthropology major? Try “Astronomy and the Humanities”. Want to be an engineer? You’ll love the “Psychology of Music”. Undecided? You have over 220 course offerings to choose from. Whatever Signature Course you select, you will share an experience with students from across the university. Cross disciplinary boundaries, explore important societal issues, and learn about the vast resources that make UT a world-class center of learning and creativity: start here, change your world. Featured Video Watch students and professors discuss UT’s Signature Courses. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy