Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Explore Core & Flag Requirements Internal Transfers Tutoring & Support Research Posters Placement Exams News Home » News News Year - Any -2013201420152016201720182019202020212022 Semester - Any -FallSpringSummer Program - Any -360 ConnectionsAcademy of Distinguished TeachersArcher Fellowship Program at UT AustinAwards & HonorsBridging Disciplines ProgramsCenter for the Skills & Experience FlagsCore CurriculumDiscovery Scholars ProgramFirst-Year ExperienceFirst-Year Interest GroupsReading Round-UpResearch WeekSanger Learning CenterSchool of Undergraduate StudiesSignature CoursesSupport Undergraduate StudiesTexas Success InitiativeThe Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture SeriesThe LaunchPadTransfer-Year Experience ProgramUndergraduate ResearchVick Center for Strategic Advising Announcing the 2022 Longhorn Research Poster Session Award Winners As part of Research Week 2022, the Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) hosted the Longhorn Research Poster Session in the Texas Union Ballroom on April 20. Students presented more than 180 research posters on interdisciplinary topics ranging from art education to electrophysiology to history. This year’s event marked a return to an in-person poster session, where students presented large-format posters of their research to attendees. The top presenters were selected for $2,000, $1,000, and $500 awards. 2022 Research Showdown Winners Announced On March 8, the Office of Undergraduate Research announced the winners of the seventh annual Texas Student Research Showdown at an award ceremony. Students participating in this research communication competition created two-minute videos to explain their research and creative activity to a general audience. A panel of faculty and staff judges scored the videos on their ability to capture an audience’s attention, tell a narrative, convey rigorous scholarship, and target a general audience. Current undergraduates also voted for an audience award winner. Assistant Dean Named Outstanding First-Year Student Advocate Patty Micks, assistant dean of the School of Undergraduate Studies, is a recipient of this year’s Outstanding First-Year Student Advocate Award. The award, given out by the National Resource Center for The First-Year Experience & Students in Transition at the University of South Carolina and Cengage, honors college faculty, administrators, staff, and students for their outstanding work on behalf of first-year students and for the impact their efforts have on the students and culture of their institutions. Summer Exploration Grant Recipient Gains Insight in Italy Last summer, with the help of the School of Undergraduate Studies (UGS) Summer Exploration Grant, Eva Kahn studied abroad in Rome. Eva, now a humanities major, shares her experience taking classes and traveling. UGS Staffer Wins Transfer Champion Rising Star Award Dr. Jeff Mayo, assistant director of the First-Year Experience, has won the National Institute for the Study of Transfer Students’ Transfer Champion Rising Star Award. Meet Terrian Spurs Terrian Spurs, a senior communication and leadership student, started at UT Austin in the School of Undergraduate Studies. Before graduating next spring, she reflects on her time as a first-gen Longhorn. Meet Aleigha Jalomo Former Undergraduate Studies student Aleigha Jalomo is currently pursuing an advertising degree. Before she graduates next spring, Aleigha shares her experience as a first-gen student on the Forty Acres. Meet Ryan Hightower Ryan Hightower, a former Undergraduate Studies student, is a sophomore studying economics and human dimensions of organization (HDO). She is a first-generation Longhorn with plenty of advice to share about finding your way on the Forty Acres. Signature Course Spotlights Mental Health Through Movies Mental health can be a difficult subject to talk about. The pandemic brought conversations about the importance of mental health and seeking help into the mainstream, but a public spotlight on the subject doesn’t necessarily make it easier to discuss. Signature Course professor Aaron Rochlen’s class “Movies and Mental Health” uses movies as the starting point for those conversations. Meet the Artist: Jon Flaming Every year, the School of Undergraduate Studies commissions artwork for its annual Reading Round-Up program. This year’s art was created by Jon Flaming. How did you get started as an artist? Is this a talent you’ve been developing your whole life, or did you find art later on? Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » TRENDING FROM UGS Tweets by UGS_UT/lists/ugs-on-twitter Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy