Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family Lecture Series Lecture Series Archive Lecture Series in the Classroom Signature Courses Contact Us Find Us Flawn Academic Center (FAC) Room 338 2304 Whitis Avenue Austin, Texas – 78712 512-471-4421 Home » The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series Designed to create a campus-wide conversation, the Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series gives first-year students an opportunity to interact with leading members of our faculty—scholars, scientists, and civic leaders who are nationally and internationally renowned. All students, faculty, alumni, staff, and community guests are invited, but the events will be aimed at entering first-year students. The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series is made possible by a generous gift from the Herbert Family. View archived ULS events. Fall 2022 Herbert Family Lecture Series Black Austin Matters Dr. Richard Reddick & Dr. Lisa Thompson Monday, September 12, 7-8 p.m., Bass Concert Hall Two Guys on Your Head Dr. Robert Duke & Dr. Art Markman Tuesday, September 13, 7-8 p.m., Bass Concert Hall Featured Video Hear from The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series participants about their valuable experiences with the program. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy