Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Center for Skills & Experience Flags About Student Resources Faculty Resources Course Scheduler Resources Advisor Resources Contact Us Find Us Flawn Academic Center (FAC) Room 22 2304 Whitis Avenue Austin, Texas 78712 512-471-5949 Follow the Skills and Experience Flags on Twitter Home » Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Center for Skills & Experience Flags The Skills and Experience Flags are a unique and innovative feature of all undergraduate degrees at The University of Texas at Austin. Designed to be completed in residence, the Flags provide the enriched education that all students will need to become effective future leaders in our society and a constantly evolving workplace. To learn more about the Flags, visit the pages below: Cultural Diversity in the U.S. Ethics Global Cultures Independent Inquiry Quantitative Reasoning Writing The Center for the Skills & Experience Flags (CSEF) in the School of Undergraduate Studies provides resources and support to develop and teach flagged courses across the curriculum. To learn more about the resources available to UT Austin instructors, please visit our faculty resources pages. CSEF prepares students to change the world by providing opportunities to practice effective communication, engage in ethical decision-making and independent problem-solving, and to understand the diverse, data-dense world around us. To learn more about the Flags, please visit our student resources pages. Spring 2022 update: The Center for the Skills and Experience Flags remains committed to supporting faculty and students during this challenging semester. We are working remotely at this time and are available for faculty consultations, student Flags advising appointments, and meetings via phone or video conference. Our online instructor resources also remain available, and are being regularly updated with additional support for remote instruction. If you have questions or need support, please contact us directly: faculty or student advising. Featured Video Hear from instructors and students across campus about their experiences with Writing flagged courses. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy