Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Explore Core & Flag Requirements Internal Transfers Tutoring & Support Research Posters Placement Exams News Home » about » Diversity & Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Committee Diversity Statement The School of Undergraduate Studies is an academic home for people of diverse interests, backgrounds, and experiences. We believe inclusion drives innovation. Learn more about resources, training, and professional development opportunities available on campus. Dean’s Message on Diversity In spring 2017, the university’s Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) published an action plan to examine how UT can provide the best education possible for students from all backgrounds. Part of that plan included the charge that each college, school, and unit should implement a committee that would address diversity and inclusion when it came to hiring as well as establishing a culture that is supportive of diverse people and ideas. To that end, we created the School of Undergraduate Studies Diversity and Inclusion Committee to suggest programming and policies to help make our school a more welcoming and supportive environment for everyone. It’s the committee’s role to facilitate this school-wide dialogue, and it’s up to all of us to contribute to this important initiative. I encourage each of you to contact a committee member with your thoughts and ideas around these topics and others. —Brent Iverson, Dean Mission The UGS Diversity and Inclusion Committee cultivates and maintains a respectful and inclusive climate for marginalized cultures, identities, expressions, and experiences through ongoing advocacy, education, and leadership initiatives that support the well-being of all. 18–19 Accomplishments In keeping with guidance from the Office of Inclusion and Equity’s toolkit for Diversity and Inclusion Committees, UGS’s Diversity and Inclusion Committee spent its second full year focusing on data collection. In collaboration with Dr. Laura Costello, UGS’s Director of Assessment, the committee designed a two-part climate survey, which will be administered to UGS students at the end of their first year and again when they transfer out of UGS. The data from this survey will help us identify student needs and help guide the college’s diversity and inclusion work in future years. In addition to focusing on data collection, the committee also focused on nurturing diversity and inclusion in the classroom through the development of an Inclusive Classrooms Award for Signature Course faculty. Beginning in fall 2019, students in Signature Courses will be able to nominate professors who create a welcoming and accessible environment for all students. We believe that the award will allow UGS to highlight and disseminate innovative practices for inclusion. Committee Members Jamie Beard, Blackstone Launch Pad Amanda Berthy, UGS Council Anne Bradley, UGS Dean’s Office Patty Micks, First-Year Experience Olyvia Moriarty, Discovery Scholars Program Tressa Olsen, Bridging Disciplines Programs Hillary Procknow, Texas Success Initiative Paige Schilt, Sanger Learning Center Tamela Walker, UGS Business Office Pam Way, Sanger Learning Center Lin Winton, Center for Skills and Experience Flags Report a Campus Climate Incident Do you have concerns about a campus climate incident but you are not sure what to do? If so, please contact the Campus Climate Response Team by submitting your concerns using the Campus Climate Incident Online Report Form. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy