Freshman - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Freshman Page contents: Majors Deadlines Admissions Requirements Application Process Applicant Resources Cost & Aid Student Life Contact We're writing our legacy one student at a time. And you need to be part of it. At the University of Houston, you'll find degree programs that will pave the way to the future you envision—whether you want to build the physical foundations of the future as an engineer or architect, shape young minds as an educator, or study how far humanity has already come as an anthropologist. These are just a few of the areas of study available, taught by world-renowned faculty members. Not sure if you should apply as a freshman? Read up on our freshman requirements. Apply Now with ApplyTexas Apply Now with CommonApp Request Info Speak with an admissions expert Freshman Students Read the brochure in Spanish 110+ Undergraduate Majors We have over 110 majors to choose from. But it’s about more than just choosing a major. It’s about finding a calling and using your passion to create change and carve out your place in the world. See all undergraduate majors Important Dates and Deadlines Spring 2022 Application Due: December 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: December 10, 2021 Summer 2022 Application Due: May 2, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: May 9, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Due: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 Fall 2021 Transcripts & Additional Materials July 19, 2021 Fall 2022 Scholarship Priority Deadline Application Due: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 15, 2021 Codes Use these codes to submit your FASFA and send your test scores to us directly from the testing agency: FAFSA: 003652 SAT: 6870 ACT: 4236 *Supporting information includes application fee, self-reporting transcript information, test scores (if applicable). If applying without test scores, supporting information also includes your essay and resume. You can request to change to admissions without a test score by submitting this form. We've Gone Test Optional What exactly does test optional mean, you ask? Well, basically, freshman applicants now have the option to apply with or without test scores (like the ACT or SAT). Applicants are not disadvantaged by applying without a test score; they simply must meet a different set of requirements. Compare admission requirements with a test score and without a test score below: Requirements With Test Score > Class Rank SAT or ACT Admission Type Top 10% No Minimum No Minimum Assured Admission 11 - 25% 1080 21 Assured Admission 26 - 50% 1170 24 Assured Admission 51% and Lower, No Rank —   —   Individual Review* Requirements Without a Test Score > Class Rank Calculated Unweighted GPA** Admission Type Top 10% No Minimum Assured Admission 11 - 25% 3.40 or higher Assured Admission lower than 3.40  Individual Review* 26 - 50% 3.45 or higher Assured Admission lower than 3.45 Individual Review* 51% and Lower, No Rank —  Individual Review* If you don't meet the assured admissions requirements, we may consider additional factors in the admissions process. If we require additional documentation, we'll request those materials from you. **This unweighted GPA will be calculated by the University of Houston (out of a 4.0 scale) using English, math, science, and social studies grades on your transcript. Extracurricular classes will not be included. Texas Education Code (TEC) 51.803-51.809 requires all students meet college readiness standards to be eligible for admission at a Texas Four-Year Public Institution. Read about the Texas Uniform Admission Policy. To learn more about test optional admissions, visit our test optional webpage. You may also schedule a virtual appointment with an admissions representative for more guidance. Majors with Additional Requirements Some majors have additional requirements on top of the ones listed above (like supplementary applications, different GPA needs, essential high school coursework, etc.). For more information, visit uh.edu/freshman-majors-ar . Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C.T. Bauer College of Business Cullen College of Engineering College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Nursing College of Technology Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design The College of Architecture and Design admits students for the fall semester only. Applicants are required to meet general University requirements in order to be considered by the College. All applicants should submit an application and portfolio by the priority application deadline of February 1. Portfolio submission is strongly encouraged. Visit the College of Architecture and Design website Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts All College of the Arts applicants must submit a separate College of the Arts application. In addition, music, theatre, and dance applicants must also participate in an audition. Art, graphic design, painting, photography/digital media, and sculpture applicants must submit a portfolio. Art history applicants must submit an essay. Visit the College of the Arts website C.T. Bauer College of Business Applicants must meet the following requirements: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Admission Type Top 20% 1270 | 27 3.80 Assured Admission 21-50% or No Rank 1310 | 28 3.90 Assured Admission 51% and Lower 1310 | 28 3.90 Individual Review International Applicants: All applicants with international transcripts (coursework from a non-U. S. accredited high school) will go through individual review. Visit the College of Business website Cullen College of Engineering Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1270 (630 ERW) | 27 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 26-50% 1320 (630 ERW) | 28 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 51-75% 1400 (630 ERW) | 31 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 All Others 1420 (630 ERW) | 32 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 Visit the College of Engineering website College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1170 | 24 3.70 26-50% or No Rank 1220 | 25 3.80 51% and Lower Individual Review Individual Review In addition, applicants to the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, or Physics: 2 units English: 4 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus: 1 unit Visit the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics website College of Nursing Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1220 (630 ERW) | 25 (54 ENG + READ) 3.70 26-50% 1270 (630 ERW) | 26 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 51% and Lower/No Rank 1300 (630 ERW) | 27 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 In addition, applicants to the College of Nursing must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, and 2 other advanced science courses: 4 units English: 4 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus or other advanced math: 1 unit Visit the College of Nursing website College of Technology Applicants to the College of Technology must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, or Physics: 2 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus: 1 unit English: 4 units Visit the College of Technology website Application Process Expand All Collapse All 1 Apply Online Use ApplyTexas or the Common App to apply. Submit just one application. This is where you’ll indicate whether you want to be reviewed with a test score or without a test score. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your extracurricular activities. Apply Now 2 Pay Application Fees Pay the $75 application fee (It’s $90 for international students). You may qualify for an application fee waiver, which you can submit in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Apply for a fee waiver 3 Self-Report Your Transcript After you submit your ApplyTexas or CommonApp application, you’ll receive an email from us within a few business days that includes your myUH ID, which you'll use to access your my.uh.edu self-service portal— this is where you’ll self-report transcript information. You’ll see an option for it on your applicant to-do list. View our self-reporting guide or watch our video tutorial for step-by-step instructions. View all transcript submission options 4 Submit Test Scores Admissions With Test Scores Have your ACT or SAT score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. Admissions Without Test Scores If you applied for “admissions without a test score,” then skip this step. See full requirements 5 Check Your Status Check your application status in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Track Status 6 Become an #OfficialCoog Applicants who are admitted will receive an admit packet in the mail. Celebrate on social with #OfficialCoog! Then, register for Freshman Orientation in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Sign up for orientation Admissions Essay You will be asked to submit a short admissions essay with your Common App or ApplyTexas application. Remember, you need to respond to only one of the essay prompts listed: Expand AllCollapse All ApplyTexas Essay Prompts Tell us your story. What unique opportunities or challenges have you experienced throughout your high school career that have shaped who you are today? Common App Essay Prompts Topic 1 Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story. Topic 2 The lessons we take from obstacles we encounter can be fundamental to later success. Recount a time when you faced a challenge, setback, or failure. How did it affect you, and what did you learn from the experience? Topic 3 Reflect on a time when you questioned or challenged a belief or idea. What prompted your thinking? What was the outcome? Topic 4 Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth and a new understanding of yourself or others. Your myUH ID Once you submit your ApplyTexas or CommonApp application, you’ll receive an email from us within a few business days that includes your myUH ID. You'll need this ID to access your myUH self-service portal. Make sure to check and update your myUH account frequently. Within myUH you will find important information like a personalized To Do list, offered financial aid awards, and term balances. You'll also self-report your transcript there. Log into your myUH self-service portal Applicant resources Admissions Appeals Freshman applicants to the University of Houston who do not meet regular admission requirements may request further consideration by submitting a Freshman Admissions Appeal Form. Submit an appeal form Transfer Credit Estimator Meet our Transfer Credit Estimator, a new tool designed to help you estimate how many course credits may transfer to your chosen degree program at the University of Houston. Learn more about transferring credit Change Your Application Term Use our application term change request form. Please note the request is only available to applicants (not for students with decisions). Applicants are not required to submit a new application and must submit a request before the new application term deadlines. Submit the application term change request form Test Optional Admissions Still confused about applying without a test score? Go to our test optional admissions website to learn more. Read up on test optional admissions Cost & Aid Cougar Promise We’ll cover tuition and fees for those with an adjusted gross family income at or below $65,000. Tuition support is provided for those with an adjusted gross family income between $65,001 and $125,000. You must be a Texas resident and submit the FAFSA by the priority deadline of 1/15/21. Learn more Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Out-of-state and international students who receive $1,000 or more from various competitive University scholarships may qualify for an out-of-state tuition waiver. This means waiver recipients will pay in-state tuition rates. Student Life Housing Want to learn and grow in your own space? Living on campus is a great option. With multiple housing options to accommodate your campus experience, we can't wait to welcome you home! Get Involved 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sport teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. So, between classes and making memories that’ll last a lifetime, you’re going to have plenty to do. Guided Virtual Tours The Office of Admissions is now offering virtual campus visits. Register for an opportunity to receive a live campus tour from a UH student ambassador and a brief information session from an admissions representative. This visit is approximately 30 minutes. Questions? Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment Phone (713)-743-1010, option 4 Email admissions@uh.edu Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Instagram Reddit TikTok Coogcast View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies