Project SHOWPLACE - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Research Project Showplace Project SHOWPLACE Texas Gulf Coast Project Objectives Project SHOWPLACE ( Storing Hydrogen from Offshore Wind Power for Load-balancing and Carbon Elimination) Texas Gulf Coast is an Industry-Government-Public-Academia collaborative demonstration project that aims to establish the commercial feasibility of synergies between offshore wind power & hydrogen generation & storage. Key concept elements include re-purposing existing offshore Gulf of Mexico oil and gas platforms and pipelines into green hydrogen hubs. The SHOWPLACE concept envisions installing floating or fixed (to platform) wind turbines to generate electric power that will be connected to the onshore electric grid. Any excess wind power will be utilized to generate freshwater via desalination and hydrogen via freshwater electrolysis. The generated hydrogen will be transported to shore for use as industrial feedstock or for power generation; any hydrogen in excess of demand will be stored in subsurface geological reservoirs and produced as required by demand. The project also envisions transporting freshwater to shore as demand develops. SHOWPLACE will develop a comprehensive roadmap that will allow replication of the demonstration project at multiple locations across the Gulf of Mexico. This roadmap will also address key enabling elements such as: Ocean observing systems Hydrogen safety STEM curriculum and workforce retraining programs Community engagement, economic growth, and job creation opportunities Regulatory requirements × Dr. Ram Seetharam Energy Center Officer, UH Energy Ram currently serves as Energy Center Officer (part time) at UH Energy, a multi-disciplinary energy research program at the University of Houston. He serves as project manager for low-carbon energy projects such as hydrogen, wind, geothermal and methane abatement. Ram is also the Executive Vice President for Business Development & Technology at Cozairo, a company that offers scalable carbon emissions reduction solutions to industry. Ram recently retired as a senior executive at ExxonMobil with nearly 40 years of experience in the Upstream industry and 33 years with ExxonMobil. His Upstream experience includes subsurface, concept selection, project and oilfield economics, asset valuation and technical support to major capital projects. He has held multiple key managerial and technical leadership positions influencing major upstream projects in the industry including Kazakhstan, Russia, North Sea, Middle East and Unconventionals. Ram serves on the Advisory Board for the UH Petroleum Engineering Department, and was recently recognized as an Engineering Distinguished Alumni by the Cullen College of Engineering. Ram has a Masters and Ph.D. degrees in Chemical Engineering from the University of Houston, and a Bachelors in Chemical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. 832-538-2667 rvseetharam@uh.edu Close Project Leader: Dr. Ram Seetharam Energy Center Officer UH Energy CONTACT DR. SEETHARAM PROJECT DETAILS The SHOWPLACE concept offers multiple potential advantages. Capital outlay is expected to be reduced by the reuse of installed infrastructure. Long term energy storage via hydrogen and freshwater will enables utilization of all available wind power (zero curtailment goal). The Project will leverage the active hydrogen economy in Texas Gulf Coast and offers multiple revenue streams (power, hydrogen fresh water) with potential for revenue optimization. All of the individual technologies that make up the SHOWPLACE concept are generally proven; the key challenge is developing a cost-effective combination of these proven technologies offshore. It is also expected that this concept will be scalable across the Texas Gulf Coast with accompanying cost reductions. There is also significant benefits from leveraging the skilled energy industry workforce in Texas Gulf Coast, as well as learnings from similar projects that are being envisioned globally. Project work will be carried out using federal and state funding with relevant domain expertise for each of the 6 key technical modules that make up the project: MODULE 1 Wind Power Generation MODULE 2 Power Transmission Systems MODULE 3 Freshwater Generation, Storage and Supply MODULE 4 Hydrogen Generation & Utilization MODULE 5 Hydrogen Storage MODULE 6 Offshore Infrastructure Each module will also include foundational aspects such as data analytics, digitalization, safety, and environmental considerations. PROJECT DELIVERABLES PHASE 1 | Concept Selection | 12 MONTHS Concept validation, preliminary economics, and a business plan Technology research, development, and qualification plans Roadmap for policy (business, public and regulatory) Alignment and buy-in from “customers” Plan for community engagement and education PHASE 2 | Detailed Engineering | 24 MONTHS Selection of offshore pilot location and implementation partner Technical design, cost, economics, and implementation schedule Plans to integrate into power and hydrogen grids Preliminary regulatory alignment and approvals Public acceptance and training plans PHASE 3 | Demonstration Project | 24 MONTHS Featured Assets and Articles UH Energy Announces Hydrogen Program Vision and Project SHOWPLACE February, 2022 UH Energy Announces Hydrogen Program Vision and Project SHOWPLACE COMING SOON Project SHOWPLACE (SPC) Collaboration Forms Industry/Academia/Government Advisory Board February, 2022 UH Energy has organized an industry-academia collaborative to serve as an advisory board to advance the hydrogen program. VIEW COLLABORATORS UH Energy Hosts Second Cohort of The Hydrogen Economy Program Feb 16 – May 4 February, 2022 This micro-credentialing program delivers a multi-disciplinary understanding of challenges and solutions to develop a viable hydrogen economy. LEARN MORE Project SHOWPLACE Concept Workshop Held Sept 29-30, 2021 September, 2021 Over 30 representatives from industry and academia attended a 2-day workshop hosted by UH Energy on their new hydrogen program SHOWPLACE. BROWSE ASSETS ADDITIONAL PROJECT ASSETS Project SHOWPLACE Project Overview VIEW Project Objectives, Details, and Deliverables VIEW Project SHOWPLACE Collaborative (SPC) Meetings SPC Meeting | March 11, 2022 Presentation VIEW SPC Meeting | February 4, 2022 Presentation VIEW Project SHOWPLACE Concept Workshop - Sept. 2021 Over 30 representatives from industry and academia attended a 2-day workshop hosted by UH Energy on their new hydrogen program SHOWPLACE. Experts presented on the main modules that make up SHOWPLACE –Wind Power Generation, Power Transmission to Shore, Freshwater Generation by Desalination, Hydrogen Generation by Electrolysis, Hydrogen Storage, and Offshore Infrastructure. Plans were made to form working groups to refine concept design for each of these modules. Concept Workshop Slide Presentation VIEW Concept Workshop Agenda VIEW COLLABORATORS AND ADVISERS UH Energy has organized an industry-academia collaborative called SHOWPLACE Collaborative (SPC) to serve as an advisory board to advance the hydrogen program. Initially, the SPC will advise UH Energy Project SHOWPLACE as we refine the concept and develop plans for the engineering design phases for the six modules of the project. SPC will also guide UH Energy in developing proposals for federal and state funding for this and other hydrogen projects. American Bureau of Shipping AquaTerra Dsider Bureau of Economic Geology Center for Houston’s Future ChemePD LLC General Electric Grid Advisors Elena Keen Consulting, LLC Lummus Consultants NREL Power 2 Hydrogen SinnPower Subsea 7 Technip FMC University of Houston WSP UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies