Coronavirus Information - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Official UH COVID-19 Updates CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) INFORMATION Learn more about how the Coronavirus (COVID-19) is affecting admissions at the University of Houston. Take me to FAQ's for... Prospective Students Applicants Admitted Students International Students Parents Counselors Campus Visits The Office of Admissions has re-opened in-person tours in a limited capacity. We are also still offering our live virtual tours. We also encourage you to enjoy our virtual tours of campus life and our academic colleges. Whether you're interested in campus life or a specific academic college, our virtual visits will give you an in-depth look at what it's like to be a UH student. Campus Life Virtual Visit You've never seen a campus like this before. Get a holistic look at everything our University has to offer. From restaurants in our Student Center to the rock wall in our Recreation and Wellness Center, we have everything you could want or need. (Yes, seriously. A rock wall.) Launch Experience Academic College Virtual Visit Curious about a specific academic college? Or want to know a little bit about all we have to offer? Take a look at this virtual visit, which will show you everything from the stock ticker at the Bauer College of Business to the breathtaking design of the Hines College of Architecture. Launch Experience Virtual Advising Want to speak to an advisor but can't make it to campus? We offer virtual advising and have staff on stand-by to support any additional questions. Contact Us Phone: (713) 743-1010, option 4 Email: admissions@uh.edu Schedule a Virtual Advising Appointment FAQ's For Prospective Students Expand AllCollapse All If I can’t come to campus to visit, what are my other options? Your health and safety is important to us. The Office of Admissions has re-opened in-person tours in a limited capacity. We are also still offering our live virtual tours. You can also request a call from a UH Student Ambassador to learn more about the student experience at UH. Register for a campus tour online Take a virtual tour Request a call from a UH Student Ambassador Are you receiving and processing applications? The spring, summer, and fall 2022 admissions applications wil be available at Apply Texas Application or The Common Application starting August 1, 2021. Submit just one application. For details about how to apply, go here. I’ve been financially impacted by COVID-19. Is Admissions providing any accommodations? Application Fee If you can't afford the application fee because of financial hardships due to COVID-19, you may be eligible for a fee waiver. You must have an application on file prior to submitting a fee waiver request. If you've already paid the application fee, you cannot submit a fee waiver form as the application fee is non-refundable. Submit a fee waiver request Orientation Fee You can request an orientation fee deferment if you meet the criteria as listed here. This will not remove or waive your orientation fee. You'll still be required to pay for orientation at a later date. Submit a fee deferment request Back to top For Applicants Expand AllCollapse All How do I submit my transcript(s)? Freshman Pick one of the following options to submit your most recent high school transcript information: Ask your school administrator to send your official transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. TREx (for Texas institutions) or Self-report your transcript information. Visit your task list in your my.uh.edu self-service portal to self-report your transcript information. You'll only report your math, science, English, and social studies classes. View our self-reporting guide or watch our video tutorial for step-by-step instructions . Transfer Submit official college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. If your college or university cannot send official transcripts electronically, your official documents can be mailed in an institutional-sealed envelope to: Office of Admissions University of Houston - Welcome Center 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 International – Freshman Send official* secondary school or high school academic records (transcripts, mark sheets, graduation certificate, etc.). We prefer these to be submitted electronically through your school counselor via email or the Common Application. They can also be sent by mail to 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. International - Transfer Submit official* college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. They can also be sent by mail to 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. *Official transcripts must either state "official," have your institution's seal, a signature by a school official, or an official watermark. It’s up to the discretion of the Office of Admissions to determine the validity of the transcript, and the office reserves the right to request additional or different copies if needed. Is the University going to continue waiving the SAT/ACT exam for the 2022 spring, summer, and/or fall terms? Applicants have the option to apply for admission with or without a test score for the following academic terms: spring 2022, summer 2022, and fall 2022. Applicants are not disadvantaged by applying without a test score. Read more about test optional admission here. Will UH accept pass/fail grades? Freshmen We will evaluate freshmen applicants using the high school grade point average and class rank provided on the official transcript. For most schools, S (Satisfactory) or P (Pass) grades do not change a GPA. It is common for F (Fail) grades to factor into the GPA. For dual credit courses, hours earned from S or P grades will be counted towards transfer credit and hours. Transfer We will accept and award college-level credit from regionally-accredited institutions who provide grades of S (Satisfactory) or P (Pass) during semesters impacted by COVID-19. Hours earned from S or P grades will be counted towards transfer hours, but will not be factored in the calculation of your cumulative transfer GPA and will not factor into your GPA at UH. Hours earned from F grades will count towards the calculation of your cumulative transfer GPA. I’ve been financially impacted by COVID-19. Is Admissions providing any accommodations? Application Fee If you can't afford the application fee because of financial hardships due to COVID-19, you may be eligible for a fee waiver. You must have an application on file prior to submitting a fee waiver request. If you've already paid the application fee, you cannot submit a fee waiver form as the application fee is non-refundable. Submit a fee waiver request Orientation Fee You can request an orientation fee deferment if you meet the criteria as listed here. This will not remove or waive your orientation fee. You'll still be required to pay for orientation at a later date. Submit a fee deferment request Back to top For Admitted Students Expand AllCollapse All Will this affect timing of admission notification? No. Admission, scholarship, and honors program decisions are not affected. Stay up to date on your admissions status at accessUH.uh.edu. Are the other offices at UH open? Yes. You're able to contact respective offices via email or phone call with any questions or concerns. University Registrar: (713)-743-1010 (option 7) or uhour@uh.edu Financial Aid: (713)-743-1010 (option 5) or sfa@uh.edu Student Business Services: (713)-743-1010 (option 6) or bursar@uh.edu Housing: (713)-743-6000 or housing@UH.edu Will New Student Orientation take place as usual? New Student Orientation is planning to offer both in-person and virtual live orientation sessions for freshmen, and virtual sessions for transfer students. During New Student Orientation, you will get acquainted with campus resources, learn more about how to pay for college, and gain a better understanding of what it takes to succeed at UH. For each orientation date, there is a concurrent live virtual session for family members and supporters. Learn more about New Student Orientation Back to top For International Students Expand AllCollapse All When will I receive my I-20? We will send an email outlining the next steps once you have submitted the immigration documentation form and uploaded all the documents required for the I-20. If you have not submitted your immigration documentation form, please complete that form and upload all required documents. The form must be submitted before we can begin processing your I-20. Once we have received that, we will issue the I-20 as quickly as possible. If my country has been affected by COVID-19, will I still be allowed to attend UH? UH continues to welcome students from around the world. We are closely monitoring the situation and will adhere to any decisions made by the US government. If I am a new, international undergraduate student that’s unable to come to the United States for Fall 2021, what do I do? If you’re not yet on an F-1 visa, you can register for virtual classes. If you’re residing outside of the United States while taking classes, you are not required to enroll in a minimum number of in-person classes to maintain your full-time status. This is a great option if you’re not able to secure a visa to arrive on campus in time for the Fall 2021 semester (by August 12, 2021). However, you will need to defer your I-20 to the Spring 2022 term. Can I defer to a future term? Please contact us at admissions@uh.edu for more information. Back to top For Parents Expand AllCollapse All Who can help me over the phone or email? For questions regarding admissions, contact the Office of Admission at admissions@uh.edu or (713) 743-1010, option 4 and we will connect you with an available admissions representative. The Office of Admissions is open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Will this affect timing of admission notification? No. Admission, scholarship, and honors program decisions are not affected. Stay up to date on your admissions status at accessuh.uh.edu. Will more campus visit dates be added later? The Office of Admissions has re-opened in-person tours in a limited capacity. We also encourage you to enjoy our virtual tours of campus life and our academic colleges. You can also request a call from a UH Student Ambassador to learn more about the student experience at UH. Register for a campus tour online Take a virtual tour Request a call from a UH Student Ambassador Will New Student Orientation take place as usual? New Student Orientation is planning to offer both in-person and virtual live orientation sessions for freshmen and virtual sessions for transfer students. During New Student Orientation, you will get acquainted with campus resources, learn more about how to pay for college, and gain a better understanding of what it takes to succeed at UH. For each orientation date, there is a concurrent live virtual session for family members and supporters. Learn more about New Student Orientation UH Admissions is scheduled to visit my area. Will they still be here? The Office of Admissions has limited travel to high schools as many schools are currently closed. We are organizing alternative methods to connect with prospective students. We encourage you to contact your admissions representative for details. Contact your admissions representative Is the University open to visitors? The Office of Admissions has re-opened in-person tours in a limited capacity. We are also still offering our virtual tours. If you wish to explore campus on your own, you can view our self-guided tour page, which has a tour map and suggested route. Register for an in-person tour Take a virtual tour Have there been any confirmed COVID-19 cases in the UH community? Receive the most up-to-date information by visiting uh.edu/covid-19. Back to top For Counselors Expand AllCollapse All Is the University going to continue waiving the SAT/ACT exam for the 2022 spring, summer, and/or fall terms? Applicants have the option to apply for admission with or without a test score for the following academic terms: spring 2022, summer 2022, and fall 2022. Applicants are not disadvantaged by applying without a test score. Read more about test optional admission here. I’m scheduled to have UH on my campus. Will you still be coming? The Office of Admissions has limited travel as many schools are currently closed. We are organizing alternative methods to connect with prospective students. We encourage you to contact your admissions representative for details. Contact your admissions representative Will UH be present at college fairs? The Office of Admissions has limited travel to college fairs. We are organizing alternative methods to connect with prospective students. We encourage you to contact your admissions representative for details. Contact your admissions representative Will this affect timing of admission notification? No. Admission, scholarship, and honors program decisions are not affected. Stay up to date on your admissions status at accessUH.uh.edu. Back to top Stay Informed Get the latest on the novel coronavirus through these resources. UH Health Alerts: COVID-19 CDC University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies