Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Disability Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Disability Parking Disability parking permits are issued to students, faculty, or staff who have either a permanent or temporary disability and require accessible parking. These permits authorize parking in spaces designated for use by disabled drivers. Disability parking privileges are for the benefit of the registered permit holder only. For permanent disability parking privileges, the university requires a university disability parking permit be displayed along with a valid state-issued disability parking placard or state license plate when parked in any disability parking space on campus. The state-issued disability parking placard or license plate will be sufficient at all paid visitor parking areas. If an individual has a UH disability parking permit and all of the disability parking spaces are full, they are authorized to park in any non-restricted space in any of the ungated lots on campus. This does NOT include restricted spaces such as reserved, metered and 20-minute unloading. Permanent Disabilities University employees and students with a permanent disability must display a UH disability parking permit in order to park in ADA spaces in non-visitor parking lots and garages. Documentation required in order to be able to purchase a UH ADA permit includes a copy of the driver’s license, copies of the front and back of the state-issued disabled placard, and the placard receipt showing the name of the individual to whom the placard was issued. If the placard receipt is not available, Parking customer service staff will run a TxDMV inquiry to verify ownership of the placard. For those with a disability license plate rather than a placard, a copy of the vehicle registration must be provided showing the permit applicant as the owner of the vehicle. Documents should be brought to the Parking customer service office or emailed to parking@uh.edu to be uploaded to the permit applicant’s account. Disability parking authorization will be valid for the time remaining on the state-issued disabled parking placard or license plate. Re-authorization will be required upon receipt of a new state-issued disabled parking placard or license plate. University permanent disability parking permits must be renewed annually. Faculty/staff and students wishing to renew their UH disability parking permit may do so online through their myParking Account at AccessUH, if the required documentation is on file. Temporary Disabilities Students, faculty or staff who have a temporary disability may request temporary disability parking directly through Parking and Transportation Services. A letter from an appropriate physician stating the nature and projected duration of the disability, and the need for disability parking privileges will be required before authorization will be granted. Parking and Transportation reserves the right to send any applicant to the CSD for further authorization. Visitors with Disabilities Disabled visitors should use any of the paid visitor disabled parking spaces available in parking garages and surface lots on campus. Permanent Disabilities Temporary Disabilities Visitors with DisabilitiesBack to top University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies