Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Campus Security University of Houston at Katy About Us News & Events Strategic Planning Campus and Academic Services Room Request Printing Services Campus Security Daily Crime Log Vending Services Reservations Parking Campus Security Contact Us Call 832-842-3911 | Security Office Room 110 | Desk 1st floor lobby University of Houston Police Department (UHPD) maintains a Security force at UH at Katy consisting of two security officers with oversight by a UHPD police sergeant. It is important that students, faculty and staff take an active role in safety on campus by being security-conscious at all times and by reporting suspicious persons or situations immediately. UHPD maintains a Daily Crime Bulletin of reported activity. Children on Campus Unattended children are not allowed on campus. Children brought to campus must be supervised by an adult at all times. Faculty permission must be obtained prior to bringing a child under the age of 17 to class. Emergency Notifications When severe weather or other emergency situations affect our communities, the UH System universities' presidents or chancellor may decide to close one or more of the UH System institutions to ensure the safety of our employees and students. UH System officials will alert employees and students of closings by its emergency notification systems. For more information, visit the UH Emergency Operations Center. Campus Carry Policy This policy was developed to comply with Senate Bill No. 11, also known as the “campus carry” law, and follows months of discussion and deliberation. Campus community members, including students, faculty and staff, were invited to share their input prior to the policy development through several open forums, a campus-wide survey, and emailed comments at campuscarry@uh.edu. For more information, please visit the UH Police Department's Campus Carry webpage. UH MAPP 07.01.05 - Campus Carry Policy Campus Carry Frequently Asked Questions Annual Security Report Each October, UH at Katy makes the campus safety report available in the Security Office, Room 110, for all interested parties. More information on campus safety can be found at the UH Police Department website. Current Reports 2020 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report 2019 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report 2018 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report UH System at Cinco Ranch campus crime and security report Reports for UH 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies