Strategic Plan - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Strategic Plan Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Strategic Plan Goals Goal 1: Student Success Goal 2: Nationally Competitive Research Goal 3: Social Responsibility Goal 4: Nationally Relevant Athletics Goal 5: Competitive Funding Implementation The Planning Process TOGETHER, SOAR TOGETHER, WE WE RISE UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON STRATEGIC PLAN At the University of Houston, we don’t play it safe. We didn’t play it safe when we told the world: We’re going to be Tier One. We didn’t play it safe when we announced: We’re going to have a College of Medicine. We didn’t play it safe when we declared: We’re going to reclaim our athletic glory. We didn’t play it safe when we promised: We’re going to raise a billion dollars. At the University of Houston, we don’t play it safe. We didn’t play it safe when we told the world: We’re going to be Tier One. We didn’t play it safe when we announced: We’re going to have a College of Medicine. We didn’t play it safe when we declared: We’re going to reclaim our athletic glory. We didn’t play it safe when we promised: We’re going to raise a billion dollars. We took a risk that we could fail. Some thought we would. But we didn’t. With your help, we rang the bell on every. one. of. those. promises. You made the seemingly impossible possible. Stretching beyond our comfort zone is a part of our DNA … but achieving those goals was last decade’s victory. We’re moving the goalposts. Setting our sights even higher. Come see how high we can climb in the decade to come. It’ll take your breath away. Together, we rise. Together, we soar. We took a risk that we could fail. Some thought we would. But we didn’t. With your help, we rang the bell on every. one. of. those. promises. You made the seemingly impossible possible. Stretching beyond our comfort zone is a part of our DNA … but achieving those goals was last decade’s victory. We’re moving the goalposts. Setting our sights even higher. Come see how high we can climb in the decade to come. It’ll take your breath away. Together, we rise. Together, we soar. VISION Building a Top 50 Public University Goal 1 Student Success Provide a Top Tier, Inclusive Educational Experience to All Learn More About the Student Success Goal Goal 2 Nationally Competitive Research Build a Research Powerhouse that Impacts our Region & the World Learn More About the Nationally Competitive Research Goal Goal 3 Social Responsibility Serve as an Exemplar for Equitable & Inclusive Community Engagement Learn More About the Social Responsibility Goal Goal 4 Nationally Relevant Athletics Build a Competitive Athletics Program Learn More About the Nationally Relevant Athletic Goal Goal 5 Competitive Funding Build a Sustainable Funding Base to Support Vision & Goals Learn More About the Competitive Funding Goal The University of Houston Strategic Plan, "Together, We Rise. Together, We Soar.," is a seven-year strategy to transform core initiatives of the University from 2021-2028. Implementation Committees University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies