Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success Planning and Budgeting Planning and Budgeting Budget Transparency Process Contact Information For questions regarding planning and budgeting, please contact Miguel Ramos, Interim Associate Vice Chancellor/Associate Provost, Institutional Planning and Analysis at maramos3@central.uh.edu. Planning and Budgeting Overview Fiscal Year 2016 Fiscal Year 2013 Fiscal Year 2012 Overview Planning and budgeting is the process through which the University of Houston invests resources on an annual basis to accomplish its mission and goals. Every spring, the UH colleges submit plans and budgets for the upcoming academic year to the Provost, who, after hearings and extensive discussions with the deans, determines how resources will be invested. Decisions are based, in part, on the colleges' progress cards – annual performance reports that measure achievement on key measures related to the university’s goals (in particular, student success and national competitiveness). Resources pertaining to the planning and budgeting process for the current year and the upcoming year can be found here. Fiscal Year 2019 FY19 Activity Subcommittee Report FY19 Performance Subcommittee Report FY19 Model Initiative Summary Report Fiscal Year 2016 Academic Affairs planning for fiscal year 2016 will begin in January 2015. Documents related to the planning process will be posted as they are available. Academic Affairs Planning Guidelines | College Progress Cards Academic Affairs Planning Guidelines Select from the documents below to learn more about the University of Houston’s current initiatives and goals. FY16 College Planning Budgeting Guidelines College Progress Cards Gerald Hines College of Architecture C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Education Cullen College of Engineering Honors College Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management UH Law Center College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Optometry College of Pharmacy Graduate College of Social Work College of Technology UH Libraries College Progress Cards Definitions Fiscal Year 2013 Academic Affairs planning for fiscal year 2013 will begin in January 2012. Documents related to the planning process will be posted as they are available. Academic Affairs Planning Guidelines | College Progress Cards Academic Affairs Planning Guidelines Select from the documents below to learn more about the University of Houston’s current initiatives and goals. FY13 College Planning Budgeting Guidelines College Progress Cards Gerald Hines College of Architecture C.T. Bauer College of Business College of Education Cullen College of Engineering Honors College Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management UH Law Center College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Optometry College of Pharmacy Graduate College of Social Work College of Technology UH Libraries College Progress Cards Definitions Fiscal Year 2012 University of Houston and UH Academic Affairs planning and budgeting for fiscal year 2012 is complete. Documents related to this process are available through the links below. Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Planning Development of the fiscal year 2012 plan and budget for University of Houston Academic Affairs is a comprehensive process that includes faculty, chairs, deans and university administration. Each college prepares a plan as outlined by the Provost, which is reviewed at a budget hearing. The division budget plan is then presented to the President. Select from the documents below to learn more about the University of Houston’s current initiatives and goals. Reduction Plan Memorandum - 5·02·11 Fiscal Year 2012 University of Houston Planning Guidelines - 3·02·11 Academic Affairs Fiscal Year 2012 Planning Workbook (FY12 Template) University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies