UH Career Fairs - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UCS - University Career Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Career Services Home About Us Staff Degrees Conferred by Semester Graduation Survey Room Request Form Event Calendar Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Request a Presentation Graduate & Professional Student Resources Alumni Recent Graduates Experienced Alumni Alumni Resources Upcoming Alumni Events Subscribe to Alumni Career Services (ACS) UH Recruitment Series Employers Recruit at UH Become a Sponsor Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Faculty/Staff Meet your Campus Liaison! Request a Presentation Hire a Student Employee View Faculty and Staff Resources Families UH Virutal Education Support Program Cougar Pathway Giving UH Home UCS - University Career Services UH Career Fairs UH Career Fairs Fall 2022 Career Fairs Thur, Aug 4: College Work Study Job Fair Friday, Aug 12: On-Campus Job Fair Wed, Sept 21: Energy Career Fair Thur, Oct 6 & Fri, Oct 7: Career & Internship Fair (Hybrid) Thur, Oct 20: Sugar Land Career Fair Wed, Nov 9: Health Professions & HDFS Career Mixer Spring 2023 Career Fairs Tues, Jan 10: Alumni Corporate Connections Thur, Feb 23: STEM Career Fair Wed, Mar 8: Social Sciences Career Mixer Wed, Mar 29: Communication & Marketing Career Mixer TBD, 2023: Texas Job Fair TBD, 2023: Economics Career Mixer COVID-19 Protocols & Expectations Learn the current UH protocols related to COVID-19. Career Fair Photos Career Fair Resources Student/Alumni Employer Career Fair Resources for Students General Career Fair tips Employer Research Worksheet (research participating employers prior to the career fair) Student Pitch Worksheet (prepare your career fair introduction) Dress Professionally (tips for business professional attire) Common Career Fair Questions (and Answers) Why should I attend a University of Houston Career Fair? The University of Houston is one of the most diverse, public research institutions in the nation. In Fall 2020, over 47,000 students were enrolled. We are a Hispanic Serving Institution (more than 25% of our student body identifies as Hispanic or Latinx) Nearly 40-50% of our students identify as first-generation. Our students are hardworking, most work and go to school at the same time! On average we see between 700 students per in-person career fair (Range 100-1200, depending on the event). Virtual career fairs average 350 students. Easy to register and strong communication from our employer team! Career Fairs are excellent recruitment, networking and branding opportunities. What online platform (Symplicity / Handshake) do we use? University Career Services, the central career center on campus, uses Symplicity. Our colleagues in the Bauer College of Business, College of Engineering, College of Hotel and Restaurant Management and Law Center also use Symplicity. The College of Technology uses Handshake. (If you see UH on Handshake please know its only accessible to College of Technology majors) Are there multiple career fairs at UH? University Career Services hosts multiple events per semester. Our colleagues in the Bauer College of Business, College of Engineering, College of Hotel and Restaurant Management, Computer Science Department, College of Architecture and Design and College of Technology also hold career fairs, only for their students. The University of Houston system is also home to other campuses, like UH Downtown, UH Clearlake and UH Victoria. These are separate institutions, with their own mascots! UH Career Fairs virtual or in-person? University Career Services will have a mix of virtual, in-person and hybrid career fairs. Our goal is to provide more in-person events in Spring 2022. Please, check with our colleagues above to determine if our colleges will be hosting in-person or virtual events. Virtual Career Fair Resources for Employers Virtual Career Fair FAQ Symplicity Employer Training Video Symplicity Instructions Hybrid Recruiting Resources for Employers (On-campus Interviews) On-campus Interview Guide For questions, please reach out to hireuh@uh.edu In-person Career Fair Resources for Employers UH COVID-19 Protocols What is provided? 6 foot table, 2 chairs Parking validations What to bring? Promotional items Recruitment brochures Business cards Table cloth/backdrop/table display College Based Career Center - Fall 2022 Career Fairs CAREER FAIR DATE AUDIENCE Bauer College of Business - Pre-Recruiting Mixers (in-person) Thur, Aug 18 College of Business majors only College of Technology TBD College of Technology majors only Department of Computer Science Wed, Sept 7, 2022 Computer Science majors only Cullen College of Engineering Thurs, Sept 15, 2022 (in-person) Fri, Sept 23, 2022 (virtual) College of Engineering majors only Bauer College of Business - Business Career Fair Fri, Sept 16, 2022 (in-person) Fri, Oct 14, 2022 (virtual) College of Business majors only Bauer College of Business - MBA/MS Mixer Fri, Sept 23, 2022 (virtual) College of Business majors only Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership Thur, Oct 27, 2022 GHL students only University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies