Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Dining Services Campus Services Information Technology Library Dining Services Campus Security Facilities Room Request Bookstore Shuttle Service Parking Campus Safety Room Reservations Dining & Vending Services Getting hungry while you study on campus? UH at Sugar Land offers several dining and vending options to meet the needs of our busy students. Food and drinks are allowed in general areas and study areas in the Albert & Mamie George Building, Brazos Hall and the College of Technology Building. With faculty permission, students are allowed to bring drinks and food into general classrooms. Food and drinks are prohibited in computer labs, instructional television classrooms and science labs. Cougar Corner Proudly serving Starbucks coffee, Cougar Corner has your favorite Frappuccinos, teas and other favorite drinks. Cougar Corner is located on the first floor of Brazos Hall near the bookstore. It can accept cash, credit cards and ShastaBUCKS. Food Trucks Behind Brazos Hall Hungry for lunch? We have food trucks that regularly rotate to serve our students during lunchtime on Tuesdays and Thursdays. They can accept cash, credit card and ShastaBUCKS. To find out who will be here and when, check out this semester's Food Truck Schedule. Please note that availability is subject to change. Chick-fil-A inside Brazos Hall On Mondays and Wednesdays, Chick-Fil-A will set up inside the lobby of Brazos Hall during lunchtime hours! You can use cash or credit. Vending Machines Studying late? Grab a snack at any one of our vending machines in the student lounges located on the first floor of Brazos Hall and the first floor of the Albert & Mamie George Building. Exclusive beverage vending service provided by the Coca Cola Company. Snack vending and frozen foods are provided by Canteen. Our vending machines accept cash and credit card. Vending refunds are available in the Albert & Mamie George Building, Room 101. Additional details are available on Dining Services' Sugar Land page. Nearby Campus Expand/collapse On University Boulevard Expand/collapse On Sweetwater Boulevard Expand/collapse In Sugar Land Town Square 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies