Pilot for Equitable Electric Mobility - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series Pilot for Equitable Electric Mobility Speaker Presentation Slides: VIEW SLIDES Greater access to new electric mobility technologies requires reduction in economic barriers to EV ownership and transportation services. Communities need to proactively plan for transportation technologies to improve the lives of low-income communities while lowering emissions, increasing transit use, and reducing congestion. Dr. Bruce Race will discuss the National Science Foundation funded "Pilot for Equitable Electric Mobility" project in southwest Houston employing a collaborative process with community and commercial technology partners with an overall aim to leverage early Electric Vehicle (EV) adopter regional markets to accelerate equitable development of accessible fast charging infrastructure and EV ownership for low income families. The novelty of the project lies in a community-driven participatory approach that integrates both social and technical dimensions bringing transformational change to EV ownership and electrification of smart public transportation. Guest Speaker Speaker: Dr. Bruce Race, FAIA, FAICP Professor of Architecture | Director, Center for Sustainability and Resilience, Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Bruce Race, FAIA, FAICP, PhD joined the Gerald D. Hines School of Architecture as Director of University of Houston’s Center for Sustainability and Resilience (CeSAR). CeSAR seeks to understand the critical relationships between society, its technological advances, and the corresponding impact on the environment, both locally and globally. CeSAR is positioned as an interdisciplinary crossroads on the UH campus with a focus on collaboration with community and university partners. Dr. Race is the PI for two energy and detention-positive mixed-use projects in Houston, including the first mixed-use town center for Habitat for Humanity in the United States. Dr. Race is also a PI and Co-PI on interdisciplinary NSF funded research focused on energy, transportation, and resilience. Dr. Race is the principal and founder of RACESTUDIO and is responsible for all aspects of project planning, design and delivery. Since founding RACESTUDIO in Berkeley, CA in 1994, his projects have received 33 design and planning awards. He is one of very few planning and design professionals in the United States that have been elected to fellowship by both the American Institute of Architects (FAIA) and American Institute of Certified Planners (FAICP). Dr. Race represents the College on the UH Deans of Research Committee, is a UH Energy Fellow, and a 2018 50in5 Scholar. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies