EV Product Positioning - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series Socially Responsible Product Positioning and the Electric Vehicle Industry Incorporating corporate social responsibility into product positioning decisions is an important element of a firm’s sustainable agenda. Offering socially responsible products can increase the consumers’ willingness to pay for the item, have a positive or negative spillover effect on the consumers’ perceived product image, increase the item’s production and marketing costs, enable sales in new market segments and elicit market response from rivals. Our research shows that offering a socially responsible product not only has societal benefits, but its provision is linked to product and process innovations, which have spillover effects on the product’s conventional characteristics and subsequently, its product image. Consideration of these relationships provides new insights into socially responsible product positioning. This presentation provides examples of socially responsible product positioning in the auto industry and discusses the evolution of electric vehicles and their development in providing sustainable transportation. Guest Speaker: Dr. Funda Sahin Associate Professor of Supply Chain Management, University of Houston Funda Sahin is an Associate Professor of Supply Chain Management at C.T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston. She holds a Ph.D. in Supply Chain Management and an MBA from Texas A&M University. Her teaching and research interests are in logistics, operations and supply chain management, inventory planning and control, information technology applications in supply chain management and sustainability. Her research publications have appeared in leading operations and supply chain management journals. She has been recognized for her research and leadership related service work and received various awards. Dr. Sahin consistently presents in academic/professional societies. She has been an invited speaker at many academic conferences and industry sponsored meetings. She consulted with leading firms from various industries including automotive, pharmaceutical, equipment, building products and electronics manufacturing, among others. Dr. Sahin is an active member and Past President of Decision Sciences Institute (DSI). She is also an active member and a Vice-President of the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS). She also served as the Supply Chain Management Doctoral Program Coordinator at Bauer College of Business. She has taught/teaches at the undergraduate, graduate (masters and doctoral) and executive levels. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies