About - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Population Health Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Home About Leadership External Advisory Committee Internal Advisory Board 2022 Milestones Contact Us UH Home UH Population Health About About UH Population Health Leadership External Advisory Committee Internal Advisory Board 2022 Milestones WHAT IS UH POPULATION HEALTH? The Initiative UH Population Health is a first-of-its kind initiative to improve health patterns and trends for everyone. This is a bold step forward for our University, for our students and faculty, and for the various communities we serve and impact through our work. The Mission To advance health equity in Houston, the state of Texas and beyond through a holistic approach to well-being. The Vision To lead the nation in preparing the next generation of professionals to transform health through education, research and community and global partnerships. Population health is more than health care An initiative to improve health patterns and trends To date, this initiative is the first of its kind in the nation. For our community, state and nation in need of better health, UH Population Health is a collaborative approach to reduce health disparities and health care costs by addressing the full range of factors that affect health. Unlike any other university in the country, UH is taking a multifaceted, University-wide approach to one of our nation’s biggest challenges by integrating population health courses in colleges and degree programs, enhancing population health research interventions, collaborating with multiple sectors and accelerating research on digital solutions for chronic disease management. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies