Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4700 Calhoun Road University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Parking on Campus The University of Houston has adopted a parking and traffic program to create an orderly traffic flow and equitable parking conditions on campus. Your personal safety, the recognition of others’ needs, campus appearance, and applicable laws were prime considerations in the formulation of these regulations. This program is administered by Parking and Transportation Services (PTS), 4224 Elgin St., Building E, Houston, Texas 77204 (832-842-1097), and enforced by the PTS Parking Enforcement Unit (713-743-5849). To park on the University of Houston campus, you must display a valid UH parking permit unless parked at a parking meter, visitor lot or the visitor section of a parking garage. The permit is only transferable between vehicles and not between individuals. The registered driver and/or permit holder is responsible for any parking citations issued to a vehicle displaying their parking permit. In the event the vehicle is not registered with PTS, motor vehicle records from the Texas Department of Transportation will be used to determine responsibility. Park only where your permit allows. Do not park in areas that are not for your use or have a restricted status. Examples of restricted areas include fire and no parking zones, the grass, sidewalks, along curbs not designated for parking, any unmarked spot, or any place that would disrupt pedestrian or vehicular traffic. If you receive parking citations and do not resolve them, your vehicle will be subjected to tow at your expense. Vehicles may not operate on University of Houston property if they are in violation of state law. Certain low-lying areas of the campus are prone to flooding in heavy rains. The University of Houston is not responsible for any damage or loss of motor vehicles or personal property contained in any motor vehicle on campus. Vehicle operators are responsible for familiarizing themselves with current parking rules and regulations. Anyone who operates a motor vehicle on UH property is asked to register that vehicle with Parking and Transportation Services. Authorized university vehicles and equipment are exempt from registration. For the purpose of these policies and procedures, a university holiday is defined by the closing of university business offices. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies