Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation FAQ's Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 FAQs Student Parking 1. Do I need a parking permit? If you will be parking your vehicle on campus, you will need to have a parking permit, unless you use one of the paid visitor parking locations. 2. How do I get a parking permit? Register through your myParking Account, accessible via AccessUH, and select your permit. Permits are sold on a first-come, first-served basis. Permits for the 2022-2023 academic year are available starting April 18, 2022. Starting in the fall 2022 semester, permits will be virtual. A plastic hangtag will no longer be used. 3. My parking permit never arrived in the mail. What do I do? Permits for the 2022-2023 academic year will be virtual, so there no longer will be plastic hangtags to mail! 4. I’m not satisfied with the permit that I selected. May I change it? Students have the opportunity to exchange their permits at our customer service office in University Lofts at any time over the course of the year, just as long as the permit that is desirfed has not sold out. 5. Do I need to register my vehicle with Parking and Transportation Services? Yes. You must add your vehicle through your myParking Account. First, add it to your account. Then, make sure to add it to your current permit. 6. What forms of payment do you accept when I purchase my permit? Permit costs can be placed on your student account (fee bill) if purchased online. If you want to pay for it with a credit card, you must come in person to our customer service location in University Lofts. 7. I don't want my permit any longer. Can I get a refund? A valid UH parking permit can be returned to Parking and Transportation Services at any time for a prorated refund. There are two ways the permit can be returned: 1. Set an appointment or join a virtual line through Cougar Q in AccessUH to bring it in person to the Parking and Transportation Services customer service location in University Lofts. Regular office hours are Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 2. Mail the permit via certified letter to: Parking and Transportation Services Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Starting in the fall 2022 semester, permits will be virtual, so there will not be a permit to return. To cancel it, you will need to notify Parking and Transportation Services. 8. How can I add my toll tag? Parking and Transportation Services allows the use of EZ Tag (Harris Co.), NTTA Toll Tag (Dallas) or TxTag as a hands-free way to enter and exit your assigned on-campus parking garage or faculty-staff gated lot. If you'd like to use your toll tag, follow these steps to add it to your permit: Sign in to your myParking account through AccessUH. Click on your name in the upper right corner. Click "Manage Your Account Information" in the pull-down menu. Edit the toll tag information at the bottom of the page. Enter only the eight numerals in the toll tag number. Letters and special characters will prevent the tag from working properly. 9. Where can I park in the evenings and on the weekend? Anyone with a valid UH parking permit is allowed to park in any ungated lot on campus Monday-Thursday after 3 p.m., and anytime Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Just make sure your permit is properly displayed and you do not park in a restricted space, such as reserved, disabled, metered and 20-minute unloading. Evening-Weekend permits cannot be used until after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. The UH at Katy permit is only valid in Katy. 10. I received a citation, but I want to appeal it. What do I do? You may appeal a citation online through your myParking Account, accessbile via AccessUH. Your appeal will then be reviewed and you will be notified of next steps. Faculty/Staff Parking 1. How do I get a permit? You can purchase a parking permit through your myParking Account, accessible via AccessUH. Permits for the 2022-2023 academic year will be virtual, so there will not be a plastic hangtag mailed to you. 2. How do I pay for a permit? Permits for the 2022-2023 academic year can be bought online through AccessUH if paid for through payroll deduction. Faculty and staff who want to pay for their permit via a credit card must come in person to the customer service location in University Lofts. Please note that in order to be eligible for payroll deductions, you must be a regular full- or part-time employee who is paid by the university. 3. Who is eligible for a staff parking permit? All regularly employed and benefits-eligible full- and part-time staff members are able to purchase a parking permit. Campus partners may also obtain staff parking permits by coming into the parking office and requesting one. 4. May I use my permit in more than one vehicle? You may transfer your permit between vehicles as long as it is displayed properly and only one of those vehicles is on campus at a time. All of the vehicles you use need to be registered to the permit. 5. I am transferring to another building. Can I switch lots? If you have a zone permit, you can exchange it for any other available zone permit (if any are available), or you can get an available garage permit. However, if you have a gated permit and wish to change lots, go to Parking Self Service in AccessUH and sign up for the waitlist of the lot you’re interested in. 6. How can I add my toll tag? Parking and Transportation Services allows the use of EZ Tag (Harris Co.), NTTA Toll Tag (Dallas) or TxTag as a hands-free way to enter and exit your assigned on-campus parking garage or faculty-staff gated lot. If you'd like to use your toll tag, follow these steps to add it to your permit: Sign in to your myParking account through AccessUH. Click on your name in the upper right corner. Click "Manage Your Account Information" in the pull-down menu. Edit the toll tag information at the bottom of the page. Enter only the eight numerals in the toll tag number. Letters and special characters will prevent the tag from working properly. 7. I am leaving the university. Can my spouse take over the permit payments? No. If you have a permit and have terminated your employment you must return your parking permit to the parking office in order to clear that item off your termination checklist. 8. I received a citation, but I want to appeal it. What do I do? You may appeal a citation online through your myParking Account, accessbile via AccessUH. Your appeal will then be reviewed and you will be notified of next steps. Get in a Virtual Line or Make an Appointment for Parking Assistance University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies