About UH Katy - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy About Us About Us The Powerhouse is in Katy The University of Houston at Katy, an instructional site of the University of Houston, began construction in spring 2018 and opened its doors for the fall 2019 semester. Currently, UH at Katy is home to the UH College of Nursing’s traditional Bachelor of Science in Nursing program, and several programs from the UH Cullen College of Engineering, including its prestigious Subsea Engineering program, the first of its kind in the country. UH at Katy shares the facility with the University of Houston-Victoria, which offers its own unique programs. Our History > Our Future > A message from Jay Neal, Associate Vice President, Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer, UH at Katy Hello and welcome! Welcome to Katy and welcome to our new home at the University of Houston at Katy. UH at Katy is special for many reasons. Our building is a one-of-a-kind, shared space between two UH sister institutions (UH and UHV). It is the first home for the first cohort of our traditional Bachelor of Science in nursing students. It is the result of a strong, shared vision between this region and the UH System. We have planned. We have studied. We have worked together. And the result is this beautiful facility with its clear focus on producing skilled, thoughtful citizens, leaders and professionals. The programs here are intentional—the UH Cullen College of Engineering and the UH College of Nursing reflect the industry of the region and anticipate future workforce needs. We want to be part of the success of Katy. And just so there is no confusion--We are Cougars through and through! We are Tier One in our programs and our faculty, we cheer for our Coogs, and yes—WE WEAR RED OF FRIDAYS! I hope you’ll visit our instructional site, maybe after eating at one of the many surrounding restaurants! This is your campus and we’d love to meet you. Go Coogs! Warmest Regards, Need Help? Campus Information Building Hours Contact Security Wifi Printing Services Media Relations Emergency Communications Newsletter Cougar UH Today UH Magazine 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies