Career Opportunities - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Career Opportunities Career Opportunities Welcome Here you will find career connections and resources related to University of Houston professional staff and faculty opportunities through UH Human Resources and information about University student and alumni employment through Career Services. Careers at UH University Career Services College Based Career Centers Success Through People 4,252Staff - Full & Part time 2,586Faculty 5,222Student Employees Careers at UH The University of Houston is committed to attract, hire, and onboard top talented candidates. We offer a broad range of benefits for our employees and their family members to support and enhance the mission of the University. We invite you to visit frequently to review all available positions. Staff Employment Discover employment in our diverse range of staff positions. Faculty & Librarian Employment Find opportunities in Academia. Positions include, Faculty, Adjuncts, Lecturers and Librarians. Temporary Employment UH offers an onsite agency to assist with temporary and contract positions. Student Employment University Career Services can connect enrolled UH students with on-campus job opportunities. University Career Services University Career Services connects UH students and alumni with recruiters seeking opportunities for career, job and internship positions. With available services and resources, University Career Services empowers student development, implementation, and networking opportunities to support their career goals. Cougar Pathway Career hub for students and alumni to connect with employers and faculty and staff. Upcoming Events View upcoming workshops, special events and career fairs for students and alumni. Recruiters/Corporations Post internships and full-time jobs to Connect with Houston Talent. Students Resources Explore, learn and plan for your career with UCS online resources. College Based Career Centers The University of Houston offers a wealth of resources to help you recruit the best and brightest talent in the Houston area. In addition to University Career Services, there are other UH college based career centers that offer resources and services to their students exclusively. Employers who would like additional services or would like to target a specific major can also utilize the services provided by college-specific career centers. View campus wide career services Bauer College of Business College of Technology Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership Cullen College of Engineering Law Center Graduate College of Social Work University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies