Diversity - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Diversity Deborah D.E.E.P. Mouton read Growing Tomorrow in a Field of Today, the poem that influenced the artwork for the Diversity Over Division mural.Watch Now Diversity Over Division Diversity Over Division is a collaboration with the Fort Bend County Judge’s Office, the University of Houston at Sugar Land and the Fort Bend County Libraries. Launched in August of 2020, Diversity Over Division is a celebration of the diversity of culture and perspectives in Fort Bend County and the University of Houston. The initiative engaged the community with events such as Youth Voices: A Panel Discussion, which brought together the diverse perspectives of young people; Bridging the Differences Photography Contest, a Visual Arts & Spoken Word Contest and The Diversity Over Division Mural (artwork featured in the banner above). Learn more about the Diversity Over Division Initiative > Poem: Growing Tomorrow in a Field of Today By Deborah D.E.E.P. Mouton The Diversity Over Division Mural, conceptualized and created by Houston artist Reginald Adams, was inspired by spoken word poet D.E.E.P. and her poem Growing Tomorrow in a Field of Today. Deborah D.E.E.P. Mouton is an internationally known writer, educator, activist, and Poet Laureate Emeritus of Houston, Texas. Formerly ranked the #2 Best Female Poet in the World, her work has appeared in Houston Noir by Akashic Press (2019), Black Girl Magic by Haymarket Books (2019), Fjords Journal, Crab Orchard Review, and on such platforms as NPR, BBC, ABC, Apple News, Blavity, Upworthy, and across the TedX circuit. She serves as a contributing writer to Texas Monthly and Glamour. Her most recent poetry collection, Newsworthy, won honorable mention for the Summerlee Book Prize. Portfolio > Art: Diversity Over Division Mural By Reginald C. Adams Reginald C. Adams is a public artist, social entrepreneur, and community developer. He is best known for his award-winning public art projects, which are strategically located in some of Houston’s most historic and under-served neighborhoods. His creativity and approach to his artwork is inspired by travels to more than 40 countries around the globe. Adams fundamentally believes that everyone deserves access and exposure to the arts and strives to engage the public in the design and production of his public art projects. Portfolio > Mural Artwork The Diveristy Over Division Mural is comprised of several pieces of art. Each piece was created by a different international artist. See the individual pieces > Mural Dedication Officials with the University of Houston, the Sugar Land Office of Economic Development and the Fort Bend County Judge’s office were on hand to unveil a new mural celebrating the richness of the Fort Bend community. The Diversity Over Division Mural features the work of six international artists, under the direction of Houston artist Reginald Adams. Read more > Calendar (Expand/collapse) Additional Calendars Center for Diversity and Inclusion Calendar > LGBTQ Resource Center Calendar > Women and Gender Resource Center Calendar > PrevMonth Before May 2022 Month AfterNext Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: Celebration of the generations of Asian and Pacific Islanders who have enriched our history. Jewish American Heritage Month: Celebration of Jewish achievements and contributions to America. Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Monday 5/2 Eid al-Fitr Location: Worldwide Eid al-Fitr marks the end of Ramadan, a month long Muslim observation that is regarded as one of the Five Pillars of Islam. Special prayers and ceremonies occur followed by a feast featuring sweet foods and dishes. Wednesday 5/4 OKI: Music of the Ainu Time: 8:15 p.m. - 10:15 p.m. Location: Miller Outdoor Theatre, 6000 Hermann Park Dr, Houston, TX 77030 Celebrate Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month by exploring the diversity of Japanese culture through OKI, a leading Ainu musician, who delivers indigenous sounds of Japan’s northernmost region. URL: Link ESL Conversation Circle Time: 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Location: George Memorial Branch Library: 1001 Golfview Drive Richmond, Texas 77469 Conversation Circle presents English learners of all levels an opportunity to practice both their speaking and listening skills. URL: Link Thursday 5/5 Let's Learn Origami! Time: 6:00 p.m. - 7:00 p.m. Location: George Memorial Branch Library: 1001 Golfview Drive Richmond, Texas 77469 Paper folding fun as we learn the art of Japanese origami. URL: Link Children's Day Location: Japan National holiday in Japan to show respect for children's personalities and to celebrate their happiness. URL: Link Friday 5/6 Cinco De Mayo At Miller: Jarabe Mexicano Time: 8:15 p.m. - 10:15 p.m. Location: Miller Outdoor Theatre, 6000 Hermann Park Dr, Houston, TX 77030 Jarabe Mexicano invites audiences on a joyride through a versatile songbook of Mexican Folk as well as Rock & Roll, Tex-Mex, Latin Rock, and Reggae-Cumbia. Performing on stringed folk instruments accompanied by lively percussion, Jarabe’s dramatic, harmonized vocals in Spanish and English have gained them the admiration of audiences across the country. URL: Link Wednesday 5/11 ESL Conversation Circle Time: 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Location: George Memorial Branch Library: 1001 Golfview Drive Richmond, Texas 77469 Conversation Circle presents English learners of all levels an opportunity to practice both their speaking and listening skills. URL: Link Wednesday 5/18 ESL Conversation Circle Time: 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Location: George Memorial Branch Library: 1001 Golfview Drive Richmond, Texas 77469 Conversation Circle presents English learners of all levels an opportunity to practice both their speaking and listening skills. URL: Link Wednesday 5/25 ESL Conversation Circle Time: 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Location: George Memorial Branch Library: 1001 Golfview Drive Richmond, Texas 77469 Conversation Circle presents English learners of all levels an opportunity to practice both their speaking and listening skills. URL: Link Saturday 5/28 The Motown & More Show’s Funky Good Time Time: 8:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. Location: Miller Outdoor Theatre, 6000 Hermann Park Dr, Houston, TX 77030 This performance will be livestreamed. The producers of Dancin’ in the Street… Motown & More Revue are back, for a funk filled celebration of sweet soul music and the life of our forever MC Detria Ward. A funk-filled celebration of sweet soul music featuring some of Houston’s finest entertainers and the smoking Bacement Band. The real thrill on the hill! URL: Link 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies