First Visit (Triage) - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services Services First Visit (Triage) Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals First Visit (Triage) To access CAPS services call 713-743-5454 for an initial triage visit our Health 2 office 10:00 am – 4:00 pm Monday through Friday or AMG 119 at UH Sugar Land 10:00 am – 1:00 pm, Mondays and Tuesdays. Triages are brief assessment sessions intended to make sure you get connected to the right service. First visits are always free. What happens at a triage? At your initial visit, we will work with you to come up with a plan for change that capitalizes on your strengths and resources and tries to match you with a service that will most effectively address your needs. Sometimes this might mean trying a workshop, a therapy group, or a single session before being referred for more traditional counseling services. At CAPS, our philosophy is that life is the greatest teacher, and that therapy should always be a stepping stone and not a holding place. How long does a triage take? Triages are brief 15-30 minutes. A CAPS counselor will work with you to connect you with a service that will most effectively meet your needs. If CAPS services are not appropriate to your need, your counselor can help facilitate a referral to an outside service, if necessary. Should I also call for a triage if I am in a crisis? Yes. If a CAPS counselor learns you are in a crisis, they are trained to provide crisis intervention and will work with you to make sure you are feeling calmer and better able to cope with your circumstances before the triage ends. Related Links Office Hours Campus Map What to do if you are in crisis University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies