Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus UH Tech Bridge Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 UH Technology Bridge Parking Located at 5000 Gulf Freeway, the UH Technology Bridge is a 70-acre complex which provides research and classroom space, as well as a variety of offices for the University of Houston. The Petroleum Engineering Program offers classes there and various departments from IT to Real Estate have offices there as well. Parking Faculty and staff who work at the UH Technology Bridge have options: Tech Bridge permit. This permit allows for parking in specifically designated spaces at Tech Bridge. It also allows for parking on the main campus in Zone E if it is Monday-Thursday between 7 a.m.-3 p.m. If it is after 3 p.m., or any time Friday-Sunday, then the Tech Bridge permit can be used to park in unrestricted spaces in any of the ungated lots in all of the campus parking zones. Please note: If you park in a metered space, you must pay the fee, even if you have a valid permit. Any other valid UH parking permit. Most UH parking permits – including zones and garages – can be used to park at UH Technology Bridge at any time. There are lots specifically marked for these permits. The only exceptions are the UH at Katy permit, which can only be used in Katy, as well as the evening-weekend permit, which cannot be used until after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. Shuttle Van Service Shuttle van service runs to UH Technology Bridge Monday-Friday in the fall and spring semesters: Hours of Operation: 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Shuttle Stops: Technology Bridge Building 9, PGH and Student Center South University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies