John Deere Vehicle Electrification - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series John Deere Vehicle Electrification This presentation will discuss public information related to John Deere project funded by the US DOE-PowerAmerica. Through PowerAmerica, John Deere has formed a collaboration with researchers from the US Department of Energy National Renewable Energy Laboratory to develop a 200 kW 1050 VDC silicon carbide (SiC) dual-inverter. The SiC inverter converts vehicle engine power into electrical power needed for the permanent-magnet-motor based powertrain used in heavy-duty construction and mining vehicles. The presentation will cover development and test verification of various technologies deployed in the successful realization of a power-dense high-temperature high-efficiency SiC dual-inverter. In April 2017, John Deere successfully demonstrated the SiC inverter in a JD 644K Hybrid Loader, using the engine radiator fluid to cool the SiC power electronics. The DOE-PowerAmerica funding has greatly supported John Deere’s aspirations to accelerate the development of SiC inverter technology including realization of key commercialization objectives. Guest Speaker Speaker: Dr. Brij N. Singh, Ph.D., IEEE Fellow John Deere Region 4 Manager External Relationships, John Deere Fellow - Power Electronics Engineering, IEEE PELS Distinguished Lecturer 2021-2022, North Dakota State University Dr. Brij N. Singh has earned BE from Madan Mohan Malviya Technical University, Gorakhpur, ME from Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, and Ph.D. from Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi, all in India and in the Electrical Engineering. In 1996, Dr. Singh joined the École de Technology Supérieure, Montreal, Canada, as a Post-Doctoral Fellow. In 1999, he joined Concordia University, Montreal as a Research Fellow. In 2000, Dr. Singh joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana, as an Assistant Professor. In 2007, Dr. Singh joined John Deere as a Staff Engineer to lead and support silicon IGBT inverter development projects for the JD 644K and JD 944K Hybrid Loaders. In 2011, he joined Advanced Technology as Senior Staff Engineer to lead John Deere’s WBG power electronics projects. In September 2020, Dr. Singh was named as the Region 4 Manager External Relationships with responsibilities to develop emerging technologies to support technology needs for the John Deere Tech Stack, Production Systems, Product Lifecycle Systems, Construction & Road Building operations. Dr. Singh has published over 90 research articles including papers in IEEE Transactions and IET Journals. He has 28 approved US patents, one trade secret, and over a dozen pending patents. In Tulane, Dr. Singh received four IEEE-Eta-Kappa-Nu teaching awards for outstanding instructions in electrical engineering. In John Deere, Dr. Singh has received three innovation and one collaboration awards for product and technology development projects. Dr. Singh is the winner of the 2020 IEEE Power Electronics Emerging Technology Award. In 2020, Dr. Singh was awarded the “Title of John Deere Fellow” for exemplary knowledge leadership and significant contributions to the power electronics engineering. In 2021, Dr. Singh was elevated to IEEE Fellow grade. He lives with his family in West Fargo, ND, USA. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies