Home - UH Energy TribFest Panel - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH ENERGY PANEL AT TEXAS TRIBUNE FESTIVAL Home CCME | Center for Carbon Mgmt in Energy Home About CCME CCME Webinar Series CCUS Executive Education White Paper Series Research CCUS Consortia with SSEB CECSR | Consortium For Energy Corporate Social Responsibility UH ENERGY Creating a Sustainable Energy Transition Panel discussion held on Sept. 22, 2021 PANEL: A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY TRANSITION HELD ON: WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 22, 2021 9:30am - 10:15am TRIBFEST INFO PANEL OVERVIEW The way we transition our energy economy will impact all of us, from the products we use to the health of industries we rely upon for jobs and revenue. The changes we make must address the “energy trilemma” of affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy. We invite you to join us for a special edition of the UH Critical Issues in Energy Symposium, A Sustainable Energy Transition, where we will examine what a sustainable energy transition requires. The virtual conversation is presented in partnership with this year’s Texas Tribune Festival, immediately following the Festival’s scheduled panel on climate change, Taking Heat. Ramanan Krishnamoorti, Chief Energy Officer at the University of Houston will moderate the discussion between UH Energy and our industry and DOE partners and you’ll have the opportunity to ask questions and become involved with UH Energy for future events. PANEL SPEAKERS × Dr. Ramanan Krishnamoorti Chief Energy Officer Dr. Ramanan Krishnamoorti is the chief energy officer at the University of Houston. Prior to his current position, Krishnamoorti served as interim vice president for research and technology transfer for UH and the UH System. During his tenure at the university, he has served as chair of the UH Cullen College of Engineering’s chemical and biomolecular engineering department, associate dean of research for engineering, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering with affiliated appointments as professor of petroleum engineering and professor of chemistry. Dr. Krishnamoorti obtained his bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras and doctoral degree in chemical engineering from Princeton University in 1994. Close Dr. Ramanan Krishnamoorti Chief Energy Officer *Panel Moderator × Charles McConnell Director, CCME Charles McConnell is the Director of the Center for Carbon Management in Energy at the University of Houston. Prior to joining the CCME, McConnell was the executive director of the Energy and Environment Initiative at Rice University. McConnell served as the assistant secretary of energy in the US Department of Energy from 2011-13 and was responsible for the Office of Fossil Energy’s strategic policy leadership, budgets, project management, and research and development of the department’s coal, oil and gas, and advanced technologies programs, as well as for the operations and management of the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve and the National Energy Technologies Laboratories. McConnell also previously served as vice president of Carbon Management at Battelle Energy Technology in Columbus, Ohio and with Praxair, Inc. serving in a variety of operations, sales and global business and technology roles including hydrogen, gasification and energy as the global VP of energy and hydrogen. McConnell is currently a board member of the Energy & Environmental Research Center (EERC) Foundation in North Dakota, is a member of the National Coal Council, has served on the Society of Petroleum Engineers and National Petroleum Council subcommittees, and has held a number of board positions including chairmanships of the Gasification & Syngas Technologies Council and the Clean Carbon Technology Foundation of Texas. McConnell holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from Carnegie-Mellon University (1977) and an MBA in finance from Cleveland State University (1984). Close Charles McConnell Director, CCME × Jennifer Wilcox PDAS for Office of Fossil Energy, DOE Jennifer Wilcox, the PDAS in the Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management at DOE, was the Presidential Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering and Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania. As a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute, she led WRI’s Carbon Removal Program. Having grown up in rural Maine, Wilcox has a profound respect and appreciation of nature. That appreciation permeates her work; she focuses on minimizing the negative impacts of humankind on our natural environment. Wilcox holds a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering and an M.A. in Chemistry from the University of Arizona and B.A. in Mathematics from Wellesley College. Wilcox's research takes aim at the nexus of energy and the environment, developing both mitigation and adaptation strategies to minimize negative climate impacts associated with society's dependence on fossil fuels. She has served on committees of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Physical Society to assess carbon capture methods and impacts on climate. She is the author of the first textbook on carbon capture, Carbon Capture, published in March 2012. She co-edited the CDR Primer on carbon dioxide removal in 2021. Close Jennifer Wilcox PDAS for Office of Fossil Energy, DOE × Cindy Yeilding Former Senior VP of BP Cindy Yeilding most recently served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Initiatives, BP America. Previous roles include VP Gulf of Mexico Exploration & Appraisal, VP of Basin Studies & Access and Global Geoscience Research & Technology Manager for BP. Cindy earned her MSc in Geology from UNC after receiving a BS in Geology from SMU. Cindy’s specialties include Exploration and Technology, and she most recently chaired the study team for the U.S. National Petroleum Council report on Carbon Capture, Use and Storage (CCUS). Cindy is Chair of the Offshore Technology Conference and served on the Board of Directors of BPX&P and the Greater Houston Partnership until end 2020. She was BP’s Executive Sponsor for Princeton University and is a member of the U.T. Jackson School’s Advisory Council. Cindy has served as an AAPG Distinguished Lecturer and was named a “Legend in Exploration” by AAPG. In 2021, Cindy joined the Board of Directors of Denbury Inc. and is a board member of the Center for Houston’s Future. Cindy has been recognized for her leadership in energy by numerous organizations, including the “Women in Energy Leadership” award from the Houston Business Journal, and has been recognized as one of Houston’s Top 15 Businesswomen by the National Diversity Council, one of Houston’s “50 Most Influential Women” by Houston Woman magazine and one of Hart Energy’s “25 Influential Women in Energy.” Cindy is active in promoting STEM and women’s education and created the OTC High School Energy Challenge and Women in Industry (WISE) programs for OTC. Close Cindy Yeilding Former Senior VP of BP WHAT IS THE CENTER FOR CARBON MANAGEMENT? LEARN MORE ABOUT CCME CCME RESEARCH Welcome message from CCME Director Charles McConnell Welcome to the UH Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME). Our world is changing rapidly and the need for greater amounts of energy to fuel global growth is challenged by the need to lower greenhouse gas emissions we produce as a society. Carbon management is central to our mission and vision and we aspire to be a world leading center for education, research and marketplace solutions. Critical to our success are the many globally recognized industry leading enterprises working in concert with world class researchers here at UH, as well as our extensive network of collaborators in academia, government and the NGO community. Our strategic intent will be guided by our Industry Advisory Board of Founding Members and aligned specifically to drive relevance and impact for our CCME investments and programs. The energy that will fuel the world in Oil & Gas, Petrochemicals and Electric Power will be transformed to meet the challenges of our carbon constrained future with solutions that demand cost effective and accretive impact in the market. The producers, consumers, workforce of the future and the next generation of our society can look to our CCME as a place where that transformation will be developed and integrated into our world. Our Mission The Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) is a UH Energy creation that will have the capability and capacity at the University of Houston to meet the lower carbon future energy transition challenges. Multi-disciplined, collaborative research from the required fields of engineering and science, business, law, regulatory and policy, as well as education for the marketplace, will be strategically aligned with our industry advisory board to address the needs of oil and gas, petrochemicals, and electric power markets. The CCME will engage directly with these marketplace challenges to reduce carbon emissions that impact the climate and in doing so provide an accretive pathway for investment in the energy transition. We believe we are uniquely situated in Houston, aligned with our university energy advisory members, and purposely linked to global external collaborators, to impact the marketplace and provide the required solutions for the future. The Mission of the Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) is to establish a globally recognized Carbon Management Center for Energy to identify the key challenges and solutions necessary to lead the lower carbon future for the energy industry and societal marketplace. CCME is strategically driven by the challenges in oil and gas production, petrochemicals, and electric power sectors (including renewable energy platforms), as well as the entire energy value chain to consumer end use, to advance innovative and transformative solutions for a sustainable energy future. Energy Sustainability is the Foundation Pursue all requirements in harmony –a balanced public view Global perspectives and Industry priorities -Developed and Developing worlds Embrace transformative approaches and policy to create the future New Energy ecosystems to transform science and technology development and investment in breakthrough materials, products, capabilities, and commerce CCUS COMMERCIALIZATION CONSORTIA LEARN MORE 2020 PRESENTATION SSEB.org WEBSITE Consortia Mission The mission of the CCUS Commercialization Consortia is to create a consortia of industry and public/private experts to promote the rapid and transformative deployment of CCUS in the US and globally. This consortia will accelerate commercialization of CCUS through policy, legal, business as well as science and technology innovation. CCME/SSEB Collaboration The mission of the CCUS Commercialization Consortia is to create a consortia of industry and public/private experts to promote the rapid and transformative deployment of CCUS in the US and globally. This consortia will accelerate commercialization of CCUS through policy, legal, business as well as science and technology innovation. Long-Term Goals A 5-year program will be initiated in Year 1 (2021) with the development of a roadmap of strategic challenges and objectives that is informed by the marketplace participation of our Leadership Team. Our long term goals are: Provide facility design support to projects and technologies in development Provide a robust set of stakeholder engagement opportunities with symposiums and workshops, conferences, and the establishment of sub groups of experts in key challenge areas Provide the workforce development in education and skills training for the existing and future workers in the CCUS market Provide a capability and competence for the entire US beyond the SSEB borders to support DOE CCUS partnership CCUS commercialization Consortia Support The UH CCME will serve as the convener and host for the events and knowledge-sharing and take advantage of not only the rich array of campus disciplines, students and research – but also to capitalize on the city of Houston and our ability to effectively connect members of the energy community. Our reach will extend to all of the US CCUS partnership efforts supported by DOE and the SSEB reach to international markets as well. CONSORTIUM FOR ENERGY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LEARN MORE FEATURES IN ESG ESG IN ENERGY PROGRAM Our Mission The University of Houston, in collaboration with a consortium of energy companies, is advancing the practice of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focused on the various sectors of the energy industry. We intend to educate and carry out research in collaboration with members of the Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR). The purpose of the CECSR organization is to enable a common platform for industry and academic subject matter experts to enable sharing of practices, development of common approaches, address many of the critical commercial and pedagogical issues, address critical research and deployment challenges that advance CSR knowledge and its translation to the energy business, all with the intent to advance the practice of CSR in the energy industry. The initial focus of CECSR will be on: Development of methodology and approach for addressing the business case for practice of CSR in the upstream, midstream and downstream energy industry Establishing processes and rubrics for CSR implementation in the various sectors of the energy industry Development of standards for CSR performance metrics Development of training materials and training of entry level, mature CSR professionals and energy industry executives UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies