News & Events - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to College of Medicine Search Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine About Why Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine? Leadership Faculty Future Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine Building Admissions Application Process Life in Houston Scholarships and Financial Aid Tuition and Fees Types of Scholarships and Financial Aid How to Apply for Financial Aid Managing Your Finances Policies & Procedures FAQs Education MD Program Graduate Medical Education Contact Tracer Training Departments Office of Medical Education Research Humana Institute Welcome Research Education Community Project Announcements Events & Programs Courses & Workshops Office of Research Welcome OHD PRIDE Current Students Academic & Conduct Policies Diversity & Outreach Learning Communities Student Life Student Organizations Office of Academic Support Office of Student Affairs Community Health Household-Centered Care Program Healthy Connections | Conexiónes Saludables Interprofessional Teams Community Partners Community Working Groups (East End & Third Ward) Coordinated Care Network Engaged Health – Research & Data Giving Giving Opportunities Make a Gift Today Thank You News & Events News Archive Dean's Newsletter Archive Featured Events Upcoming Events Healing Arts Houston: Innovations in Arts and Health Faculty in the News Contact Us COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Patient Care Direct Primary Care Clinic UH Health | Family Care Center UH Home Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine News & Events News & Events Page contents: UH News Dean's Newsletter Featured Events In the News News News Archive Collaborating to Conquer Loneliness Amid Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has made two things abundantly clear: While prevention and management techniques are well-intentioned and successful, social distancing strategies can have severe consequences for older persons who are already at risk for the disease; and university students have had fewer opportunities to learn in traditional settings. Bridging those two paradigms is a collaboration between the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work, UH College of Nursing and Fertitta Family College of Medicine to mitigate the pandemic’s unexpected consequences in Houston by connecting older persons in the Houston area with UH students in both colleges. Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Telemedicine Usage Persist During Pandemic Historical data shows minorities have long faced obstacles to getting the critical health care services they need. When COVID-19 arrived two years ago, telemedicine emerged with the promise of better access to care through virtual delivery of clinical services and consultations. But according to a new study led by the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine and published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine, the rapid implementation of telemedicine didn’t bridge the gap as much as people had hoped. Q & A with UH College of Medicine’s Assistant Dean of Diversity and Outreach As assistant dean of diversity and outreach at the University of Houston College of Medicine, Dr. Kenya Steele’s work extends well beyond the classroom. Her work impacts not only the culture and curriculum at the college, but also the future communities our students will serve and future of the health care industry. Dean's Newsletter Archive > August 2021 December 2020 May 2020 Newsletter Icon August 2021 Newsletter Icon December 2020 Newsletter Icon May 2020 Featured Events Innovations in Arts and Health: Collaborating for Medical Humanities, Professional Development, and Community Health brings together the brightest and most creative minds working at the intersection of arts and health in Houston, a global mecca for innovations in the arts, health sciences and medical education. The three-day conference is open to the public and will be a dynamic space for dialogue, learning and inspiration. Practicing artists, health care professionals, medical educators, and scholars are welcome to attend. Continuing Medical Education (CME) credit is available for physicians. Sept. 29 - Oct. 1, 2022 Learn more about the conference here. In the News Fox 26 Houston UH medical school named after Tilman J. Fertitta family following legacy-defining $50 million gift May 19, 2022 Sunny 99.1 FM Tilman Fertitta donates $50M to University of Houston medical school May 19, 2022 Forbes University Of Houston Announces $50 Million Gift For Its Medical School May 19, 2022 The Daily Cougar College of Medicine renamed after Tilman Fertitta’s ‘legacy-defining’ donation May 19, 2022 Houston Business Journal Tilman Fertitta family makes massive donation to UH College of Medicine May 19, 2022 CBS News, Channel 11 Fertitta family makes massive $50M donation to University of Houston College of Medicine May 19, 2022 NBC News, Channel 2 ‘New Era of Health Care’: UH College of Medicine renamed in honor of Tilman Fertitta after $50M pledge May 19, 2022 ABC News, Channel 13 UH names Fertitta Family College of Medicine after $50M donation from Houston entrepreneur May 19, 2022 Houston Chronicle Tilman Fertitta donating $50 million to UH medical school, which will be renamed after him May 19, 2022 University of Houston A Visionary Commitment to Houston's Health May 19, 2022 Family Medicine Journal When the Difficult Patient Was Me April 25, 2022 Fox 26 Houston Why telemedicine is not enough to address racial health disparities April 24, 2022 University of Houston Collaborating to Conquer Loneliness Amid Pandemic April 20, 2022 The Daily Cougar Electronic cigarette ban favored by some students, faculty April 19, 2022 University of Houston Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Telemedicine Usage Persist During Pandemic April 13, 2022 University of Houston Passion for Caring: Three New UH Health Clinics are Improving Lives March 29, 2022 Houston Chronicle A legacy of racism in the health care system is hurting patients, new research shows March 27, 2022 ABC News, Channel 13 Loss of COVID-19 funding for federal program could have ripple effects on Texas Health care systemsOrthodoxy (Part 2): Reinventing Medical Education March 25, 2022 4Sight Health Overcoming Medical Orthodoxy (Part 2): Reinventing Medical Education March 24, 2022 The Daily Cougar ‘They’re not helpless’: UH College of Medicine’s Household Centered Care program helps communities face-to-face March 23, 2022 University of Houston Coming Full Circle: UH Alumnus Returns to Join UH College of Medicine Founding Faculty March 2, 2022 University of Houston College of Medicine Q & A with UH College of Medicine’s Assistant Dean of Diversity and Outreach February 14, 2022 University of Houston College of Medicine STEM RISE 2022: UH Medical Students Step Up to Mentor Third Ward Students February 11, 2022 Houston Chronicle COVID Help Desk: Should we still wear masks as the omicron wave subsides? February 10, 2022 Univision, Channel 45 Universidad de Houston implementa medidas para combatir el covid-19 February 1, 2022 Yahoo!Finance 'We need to continue masking in schools,' doctor urges News Archive Office of Media Relations The Media Relations team seeks to maximize significant positive media coverage of the University and communicate effectively about the achievements of the institution, its faculty and students, externally and internally. Contact Information News Media Policy Filming at UH Follow Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies