Family & Guest Orientation - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Family & Guest Orientation Transitioning to college is a big step—one that can be overwhelming and confusing for students. That’s why we want to make sure you can help your student navigate this life-changing process by having all the infromation about the University of Houston at your disposal. Learn more about everything UH has to offer you and your student at Family & Guest Orientation. You'll get the opportunity to learn about resources available on campus, learn more about financial aid, and meet other families & guests joining the Cougar Family! For family and guests of incoming freshman, orientation is a two-day in-person experience. For family and guests of incoming transfer students, orientation is a one-day in-person experience. Register for Family & Guest Orientation Orientation Dates New Student/Freshman Orientation Two-Day Program ($60 fee/guest) Transfer Orientation One-Day Program ($40 fee/guest) June 2-3 May 26 June 9-10 June 1 June 16-17 June 15 June 21-22 June 24 June 27-28 June 30-July 1 Sample Schedule Sample Schedule Hotel Options for Family and Guests While we are only able to coordinate student housing for orientation, please see the discount codes below for discounts at area hotels! University of Houston Hilton Hotel 4450 University Dr. Houston, TX 77004 Discount Code: 0941920 Holiday Inn Express & Suites Houston Downtown Convention Center 1810 Bell St. Houston, TX 77003 Discount: No code needed. All you will need to do is ask for the “University of Houston” discount when booking. Best Western Plus Downtown Inn & Suites 915 W. Dallas St. Houston, TX 77019 Discount Link: Click here > Discount Code: University Ask Me Anything (AMA) Chats We wanted to give you a chance to connect with our Prospective and New Student Programs staff to ask questions, get information, and be directed through the orientation process leading up to enrolling in courses. We will be hosting virtual chats for family members and supporters to join throughout the orientation process. These chats will be held virtually on Zoom for an hour, and you can register using the links below. Families and Supporters AMA Chats Schedule: This session will provide the opportunity for families and supporters to ask important questions about orientation and transitioning to UH. Date Time Link Friday, April 8, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Register Here > Wednesday, May 18, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM Register Here > Orientation Fees and Refunds For in-person new student orientation sessions, the family and guest orientation fee is $60. For in-person transfer orientation sessions, the family and guest orientation fee is $40. For family and guest members who choose a virtual orientation option, the orientation fee is $0. All orientation fees for both students and family and guest members are non-refundable. Contact Us If you have any questions or concerns related to orientation that weren't answered above, please contact us at orientation@uh.edu or (713) 743-1010, option 4. We look forward to seeing you! University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies