EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP & POLICY STUDIES - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Education Submit Close COE Employee Intranet Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Education About Dean's Welcome Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Educator Preparation: Accreditation Support the College Houston is Home Office of Institutional Effectiveness Strategic Plan Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Graduate Recruitment Events Graduate Admissions UH at Sugar Land Programs Post-Baccalaureate (PB) Certificates & Certifications Financial Aid and Scholarships Degrees & Programs Departments Curriculum & Instruction Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences Student Services Financial Aid and Scholarships Certifications PEEPS Food Pantry Technology Services (CITE) Graduation Job Opportunities Advising (Undergraduate) Office of Undergraduate Studies Office of Graduate Studies Operating Procedures for Graduate Students Diversity and Support Research Study Participation Research Welcome from the Associate Dean for Research College of Education Office of Research Team Institutes & Centers Funded Grants and Projects Graduate & Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni Board Job Opportunities Giving Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Technology Services (CITE) Policies & Procedures MyCOE/Faculty & Staff Intranet EDUCATIONAL LEADERSHIP & POLICY STUDIES Page contents: Degrees & Programs News & Features Short Takes By the Numbers ELPS Quick Links Contact Us LEADING THE WAY The Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies at the University of Houston College of Education prepares compassionate, transformative leaders committed to the success of all students. As part of a Tier One public research university in a diverse, dynamic city, we strive to inform policy and practice to improve outcomes across the educational pipeline. ELPS offers graduate programs for aspiring principals, superintendents, special education professionals, higher education administrators, policymakers and researchers. We also offer undergraduate minors in special populations and Asian American studies. More about ELPS Information sessions Application information ELPS DEGREES & PROGRAMS The department’s graduate-level programs help educators and other professionals specialize and advance their careers. Our minors help undergraduate students gain critical knowledge and stand out among their peers. Higher Education Ph.D. in higher education leadership & policy studies M.Ed. in higher education (offered in-person and online) K-12 Leadership Ed.D. in professional leadership – K-12 M.Ed. in administration & supervision K-12 principal certification-only program Special Populations Ed.D. in professional leadership – special populations M.Ed. in special populations (online) Educational diagnostician certification Disability support certificate Minor in special populations Asian American Studies Minor in Asian American studies NEWS & FEATURES More ELPS stories Alumni, Community Partner Honored at Star Awards The College of Education celebrated its 2022 award winners for their leadership and service to the community. The winners included a college consultant, a Houston ISD principal, a literacy advocate and an accountant who provides global leadership training. Higher Education Alumna Wins 2022 Rising Star Award Chantelle George, who earned an M.Ed. from the College in 2015, has impacted hundreds of thousands of students nationwide. During the pandemic, she launched a consulting firm to help school districts, colleges and nonprofits prepare traditionally underserved students for postsecondary success. Professor Earns National Science Foundation Role Elsa Gonzalez will have the opportunity to help improve student success in STEM fields as a newly selected program director for NSF. “It’s a very important opportunity because of the impact it can have in underrepresented communities,” she said. UHCOE Online Programs Earn High Ranking The College’s online master’s degree programs were ranked 14th best in the nation on the 2022 list from U.S. News & World Report. “Our professors, rather than just lecturing at us for three hours, they incorporated breakout rooms. They still made it really engaging,” said recent M.Ed. graduate Elizabeth Rodriguez. Researchers Present at National Higher Education Conference Faculty, students and postdoctoral fellows from the College will share their research at the 2021 Association for the Study of Higher Education conference. “I’m excited to present our research in front of others and catch up with colleagues from across the country,” said postdoctoral fellow Susana Hernández. Assistant Professor Trains Next Generation of School Leaders Keith Butcher’s commitment to education and his students earned him a 2021 Teaching Excellence Award from the College. While he handles administrative work as a program director, mentoring and inspiring students will always be his priority. Assistant Professor Promotes Equity in the Classroom Ruth López, a professor of school leadership, provides her students the resources and space to reflect and discuss how they can improve education for all. Her commitment to equity earned her a UH Teaching Excellence Award for 2020-21. UH, HISD Partner to Grow Principal Pipeline Funded by a state grant, Future Forward Leadership allows aspiring principals to gain real world experience as administrative interns, learning how to manage finances, improve instruction and more. Research Debriefed: Intersectional Leadership Associate Professor April Peters-Hawkins discusses how recognizing race, gender and other identities can improve the learning experiences of historically underserved students. “I don’t just experience things because I’m Black or a woman. I experience things as a Black woman,” she said. UH Alumna Continues Push for Educational Equity Julie Fernandez has been named dean of the College of Education at Charleston Southern University in South Carolina. She earned an Ed.D. in professional leadership in 2012 and said the UH program gave her a strong foundation in leading effectively. Professor Works to Boost Latina Representation in STEM Fields Assistant Professor Elsa Gonzalez has received a $1.3 million grant from the National Science Foundation to identify factors that promote and hinder the success of Latina STEM majors at Hispanic-serving institutions, including UH. Survey Addresses COVID-19 Impact on Asian Americans at UH The Asian American Studies Center is sponsoring the study to learn if Asian American students, faculty and staff at UH have experienced microaggressions since the pandemic outbreak and determine how it can help support them. Research DeBriefed: Fighting for Equity in Higher Education In a recent journal article, Associate Professor Vincent D. Carales delves into the landmark lawsuit that improved higher education opportunities for Mexican Americans in Texas. SHORT TAKES More news briefs Numerous Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies faculty members were honored for their contributions to the second and third year of UH’s “50-in-5” research initiative. The follow professors were recognized for major grants unless indicated otherwise: Elsa Gonzalez (grant and National Science Foundation CAREER award), Jacqueline Hawkins, Cathy Horn, Dave Louis (Fulbright award), Lyle McKinney (Fulbright award), April Peters-Hawkins, Augustina Reyes and Kristi Santi. Associate Professor Elsa Gonzalez, alumna Miranda Wilson and research fellow Frank Fernandez earned a book-of-the-year award from the American Association of Hispanics in Higher Education. Alumna Khalilah Campbell-Rhone has been promoted to assistant superintendent of transformation in Houston ISD. She earned a doctorate in professional leadership and a master’s in administration and supervision. Keith Butcher, a clinical assistant professor and director of the M.Ed. in administration and supervision program, and Virginia Snodgrass Rangel, an assistant professor of educational leadership, have been selected as faculty fellows for 2022-23 by the Elizabeth D. Rockwell Center on Ethics and Leadership. Ruth M. López, an assistant professor in the Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies, and alumna Michelle Tovar have been selected as Latinos for Education board fellows. April Peters-Hawkins, associate chair of the Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies, will serve a three-year term as co-chair of the Mentoring Committee of AERA’s Administration, Organization and Leadership Division. Virginia Snodgrass Rangel, an assistant professor of educational leadership, has been elected vice president-elect of AERA’s Research, Evaluation and Assessment in Schools Division. BY THE NUMBERS 300+ELPS students 95%Pass rate on principal instructional leader exam 100%Pass rate on principal performance assessment 100%Pass rate on superintendent certification exam 3ELPS research centers and institutes 1.5MHouston-area K-12 students ELPS Quick Links Chair's Welcome Degrees & Programs Information Sessions Admissions/Apply Now Get Certified Mission and Strategies Administrative Team Faculty Policies & Forms Testimonials ELPS News CONTACT US Department of Educational Leadership & Policy Studies University of Houston College of Education 3657 Cullen Blvd. Farish Hall, Suite 112 Houston, Texas 77204-5023 Department phone: 713-743-7846 Email: delps@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies