Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Visitors Text to Pay / Virtual Meter Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Text to Pay / Virtual Meter Parking The University of Houston now uses a virtual meter payment system for visitor parking spaces located in parking lots across campus. There is signage at each of the virtual meter locations on campus (as well as UH Technology Bridge and UH at Sugar Land) explaining how to pay to park in these visitor spaces, which are clearly marked with orange striping. Payment is no longer accepted through physical meters. These spaces have to be paid for through the virtual meter system. Please note: This does not impact visitor parking in the parking garages, which will continue to utilize payment machines. Do not pay until you have parked. You must pay prior to exiting your vehicle, and you must be parked in an orange parking space. To pay, customers need to text the key word assigned to the lot to 25023. Each lot has its own key word. The key word is posted on signage at all of the locations. Make sure to text the key word that is written on the signage at the lot you are in. After you send the text, you will get a text back with a link. Click on the link and follow the prompts to pay. You will need to input your payment card number the first time, but it will be saved so that you do not need to re-enter it for any future parking payments. You are given an option to receive a text as your time gets close to expiring asking if you want to extend the time. You can pay to add more time if you so choose. HOW TO PAY Text the key word to 25023. (Key word is posted on signage at each location) Click on the link. Choose amount of time to purchase. Enter license plate number. Select payment method. Enter name and card information. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies