Who We Are - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Contact Us Who We Are Who We Are Our Office The Office of Admissions is made up of four main areas: Admissions Processing, Information Technology, New Student Programs (campus visits and orientation), and Student Recruitment. We’re among 29 departments and programs in the Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services. Our Mission To provide information, pathways, and resources that give access to world-changing opportunities at the University of Houston. We aim to recruit academically promising students, provide timely admissions evaluation, and deliver an orientation and enrollment experience that establishes a foundation toward college retention and graduation. Our Vision To create a diverse, inclusive, and academically competitive university that has been shaped by high-touch and data-driven initiatives. A place that’s relentless about college access, a destination for academically competitive students, and a model within the field of college admissions. Facts & Figures 60+ full-time employees and 50+ part-time student staff Regionally located in Austin, Dallas/Ft. Worth, McAllen, and Los Angeles (CA) 48,000+ undergraduate applications annually Incoming students represent nearly every county in Texas and every state in the U.S. as well as 90+ nations around the world. Our Leadership Dr. Mardell Maxwell Executive Director mrmaxwe2@central.uh.edu Dr. Mardell Maxwell joined the Office of Admissions in April 2017. He provides leadership and administrative oversight to undergraduate admissions, prospective student recruitment, new student orientation, and enrollment. Prior to moving to Houston, he served as an admissions professional at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and Kansas State University. Kriston Burroughs Director, Admissions Recruitment kpburrou@central.uh.edu Kriston Burroughs joined the Office of Admissions in August 2021. He oversees the Welcome Center Admissions staff and manages the admission of first year, transfer and graduate applicants to the university. He is originally from St. Louis, Missouri and received both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Prior to moving to Houston, he served as an admissions professional at Washington University in St. Louis. Dr. Joey Ratcliff Director, New Student Programs jhratcli@central.uh.edu Dr. Joey Ratcliff joined the Office of Admissions in April 2015. He oversees the campus visit and orientation programs for future Coogs. He’s originally from Brookhaven, Mississippi and received both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Mississippi and earned his doctoral degree in ethical leadership from the University of St. Thomas in Houston. Prior to moving to Houston, he served as an orientation professional at Purdue University. Gabrielle Sowell Director, Admissions Processing admissions@uh.edu Gabrielle Sowell joined the Office of Admissions in September 2019. She oversees the processing of freshman and transfer admissions applications, transfer credit evaluations, and college review decisions. A Native Houstonian, she received her bachelor’s degree in administration of justice from Texas Southern University and earned her master’s degree in education at the University of St. Thomas in Houston. Knowledgeable in different areas of enrollment services that provide assistance to prospective and current students, Gabrielle understands the importance of serving students and helping them reach their educational and professional goals. Go Coogs! Derrick Alex Lead, International Admissions admissions@uh.edu Derrick Alex joined the Office of Admissions in January 2019. He has a comprehensive background in the admissions field and international student recruitment. Derrick is from India and previously worked at Indiana University of Pennsylvania – University of Indiana (IUPUI). Meet Your Admissions Representative Our Advisory Board The Counselor Advisory Board is a group of highly recommended school counselors who advise UH in admission policies and practices aimed to better serve students through the college-going experience. The advisory board is a two-year commitment that consists of a one-day campus meeting in the fall and spring semesters. The benefits of membership include, but are not limited to: Cultivate rapport with the Office of Admissions and other counselors; Seek guidance from the Office of Admissions and other counselors specific to college admissions and counseling; Establish a network to discuss educational trends and opportunities for college access. Offer first-hand information to your school community regarding initiatives that impact student success. Texas Members Amy Hollie The Woodlands High School Bonnie Baker Cedar Hill High School Brian Williams Elkins High School Demetra Durham Berkner High School Dwana Burgens IH Kempner High School Erica Ramos Memorial Early College High School Greg Forge Plano East High School Jackie Magness Del Valle High School Kristy Dozier Allen High School Michelle Snyder Crockett High School Pamela Mason Anderson High School Paul Harris Alamo Heights High College Center Sujey Doctoroff Saint Angnes Academy Vilma Wolfe Saint Joseph Academy Out-of-State Members Submit a nomination University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies