Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Sugar Land Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Map Sugar Land Shuttle Service WCJC Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Sugar Land Parking In order to park a vehicle at the University of Houston at Sugar Land, all students, faculty and staff must have a valid UH parking permit. (Please note: Parking and Transportation Services no longer provides shuttle services to the Smart Financial Centre.) Overview of Parking Permit System Sugar Land permits can be purchased through AccessUH by logging into the myParking icon and clicking the “Get Permit” button. Purchases and returns can be made at any point during the semester and are prorated weekly. Permits will be mailed to the address selected. The UH at Sugar Land permits are valid at the following locations: UH at Sugar Land: any unrestricted space, 24/7 UH main campus Zone E, 24/7 Any ungated lot at main campus - Monday-Thursday after 3 p.m. and Friday-Sunday. All active UH parking permits are permitted to park at UH at Sugar Land, with the exception of the UH at Katy permit. The evening-weekend permit cannot be used until 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. 2021-2022 Permit Prices The 2021-2022 Sugar Land parking permits are $295 for University of Houston at Sugar Land students and faculty. The cost of the permit prorates over the course of the year. To be eligible for the UH at Sugar Land permit, a UH student must be taking the majority of their credit hours for the semester in face-to-face classes on the Sugar Land campus. Eligible students who do not see the Sugar Land permit option in their parking account should contact Parking and Transportation Services, who will verify eligibility. Information about other UH parking permits can be found here. WCJC students, faculty and staff can find permit information here. Parking Citations Violators of the University's parking rules and regulations can receive citations. Habitual or flagrant disregard of the rules and regulations is grounds for suspension of campus parking privileges or stronger action by the University. Parking citation appeals must be received by Parking and Transportation Services. Visitor Parking Hourly parking is available via the gated visitor lot in front of the University Branch Library. UH parking permits will not grant entry into the visitor parking area. Payments can be made upon exiting via credit or debit card only. The rates are: 0-1 hour: Free 1-2 hours: $2 2-3 hours: $4 3-4 hours: $6 4-5 hours: $8 5-24 hours: $10 Additional visitor parking is available in Lot 1A, which is behind Brazos Hall. This map shows its location. Payment will have to be made by credit card through text to pay virtual meters by using your smart phone to text UHSL to 25023, then following the prompts. The text to pay rates are: 0-1 hour: $2 1-2 hours: $4 2-3 hours: $6 3-24 hours: $10 Other UH System Permits The University of Houston has a reciprocity agreement with the other UH System campuses to honor their parking permits on a temporary basis for business needs. Vehicles must display a current UH System Campus permit and are permitted to park at UH at Sugar Land. The reciprocity agreement is intended for business visitations only and not for multiple consecutive uses. For special considerations, please contact Parking and Transportation in advance at parking@uh.edu to discuss. A transfer of employment or classes would necessitate the purchase of a UH parking permit. Event Parking Please contact UH at Sugar Land Parking office at parking@uh.edu for more information. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies