Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Visitors Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Visitor Parking Visitor parking is available across campus. This map shows the options. Here are the visitor parking rates. Visitor parking spaces not in a gated location have converted to a text to pay system only. Signage is posted at these areas explaining how to use the text to pay option. These spaces are marked with orange striping to distinguish them from non-visitor spaces. Visitor parking in the garages accepts credit cards and cash as payment options. No matter which payment option is used, you must park at the location that you paid. You cannot move from one location on campus to another unless you pay at both locations. Please note: Parking permits are not a substitute for paying to park in a visitor space. Evening/Weekend/Event Parking During periods of high parking volumes, Parking and Transportation Services will be converting surface lots in the high volume areas from valid UH permit only parking to evening/weekend/event parking on weekdays after 4 p.m. and all day on weekends. Each of these areas will be staffed with easily identifiable parking attendants who will pre-collect the parking fee and issue event parking tickets to each vehicle not displaying a valid UH parking permit. The cost of event parking will be $10 and payment can be made with either cash or credit card. There will be times, such as on athletic game days and University sponsored events, where these evening/weekend/event parking areas will not be staffed by PTS for guest/event parking. Visit the Special Event Parking Page for more details on these events. On these days, guests will need to utilize one of the other campus parking options. In the event that no attendants are in place, evening/weekend/event parking will only be available in visitor garages and meter parking. Any vehicle parked on UH campus without the proper and valid UH parking permit or having paid for guest/event parking, will be subject to citation or tow. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies