Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Diagrams: Materials and Methods Friday, May 6, 2022 1:00 pm - 2:30 pm Simplified, schematic, abstract. Diagrammatic representation offers an attenuated impression of the physical world. Yet diagrams are themselves physical artifacts—manufactured objects with a material history that has informed their production, use, and interpretation. Bringing together scholars and artists whose work engages the material history of the diagram, this panel explores the tension between abstraction and materiality at the heart of every diagrammatic practice. A series of object-focused case studies from the early modern period to the present will ground a collective discussion about 1) the shifting material, visual, and semiotic qualities of diagrams drawn from differing contexts over time and 2) available theoretical approaches for understanding diagrams and the epistemologies they capture. Panelists: Elizabeth Bacon Eager, Assistant Professor of Art History, Meadows School of the Arts, Southern Methodist University Mimi Gellman, Associate Professor in the Faculty of Culture and Community at Emily Carr University of Art and Design Nydia Pineda de Ávila, Assistant Professor in the Department of History and the Science Studies Program at UC San Diego Trevor Stark, Assistant Professor of Art History in the Department of Art and Art History, University of Calgary Moderated by Natilee Harren, Associate Professor of Art History, University of Houston School of Art Advance. Registration is required to attend. Registrants will receive the connection link via email. This online panel discussion is sponsored by Rare Book School’s Andrew W. Mellon Society of Fellows in Critical Bibliography (SoFCB) and the University of Houston School of Art’s Program in Art History. Mimi Gellman, Invisible Landscapes (detail), 2017, conté on Japanese Obonai paper, 63.5 x 48.3 cm. Location Virtual Cost Free Contact Natilee Harren noharren@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies