About University of Houston - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home About UH About UH Page contents: UH at a Glance Recognition History & Traditions UH in the Community Welcome to the Powerhouse Established in 1927, the University of Houston empowers students in their pursuit of learning, discovery, leadership and engagement. Located in a sprawling metropolis, our premier Tier One campus provides students with cutting-edge programs including undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, distance and continuing education studies. Ranked among the best colleges in America, UH is home to award-winning faculty, innovative research centers, alumni who have become international leaders and one of the most diverse student populations in the nation. At the University of Houston, we prepare students to envision their future, emerge as leaders and launch careers that transform the world. Our Mission Diversity University Leadership Launch Experience $6.4 BILLION University of Houston Greater Houston Impact UH is essential to the economic vitality of the city, developing a skilled workforce, providing research-based solutions to real-world problems and serving as an anchor institution for the community. And it’s a great investment, with society gaining $12.60 for every $1 invested in UH. View UH Economic Impact Analysis UH at a Glance Student Body Demographics Post-Grad Employment Stats (TXCREWS) Notable Faculty 47,000+Students 2,800+Faculty 255Undergrad Majors & Minors 111Master's Degrees 51Doctoral & Professional Degrees 36Research Centers Recognition UH Among the Best in the Nation for Success of Hispanic Students Hispanic Outlook on Education Magazine UH Wolff Center Again Ranked No. 1 in Entrepreneurship by the Princeton Review The Princeton Review U.S. News & World Report Ranks UH Among Best Colleges for 2021 U.S. News & World Report University of Houston Online Graduate Education Programs Rank Among Nation’s Best U.S. News & World Report Princeton Review Names Bauer College Program as No. 1 in the Nation The Princeton Review University of Houston is a Top Producer of Fulbright U.S. Students U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs #7 College that Pays Off the Most CNBC Students are choosing to attend UH in record numbers and for many reasons. They benefit from award-winning faculty, opportunities to connect with industry trailblazers, our pioneering approach toward equipping tomorrow’s leaders and our robust student-life experiences.Watch Our Student Story Now History & Traditions Whose House? Coogs House! Founded in 1927, the University of Houston has a proud heritage of academic excellence and continues to develop strong traditions. From wearing red on Fridays to proudly displaying the cougar paw sign or visiting Shasta at the Houston Zoo, UH has a strong history and rich traditions. Learn More History & Traditions UH in the Community UH prides itself on student success and regularly engages students with the Houston community through outreach projects, internships, industry partnerships and alumni leadership. UH has been recognized by the Corporation for National and Community Service for its outstanding service to the community. Cougar-driven projects cultivate excellence, address community challenges and place students on the lifelong path of civic engagement. Find Out More About UH in the Community Shasta’s statues sit in front of the E. Cullen Building, and UH tradition says rubbing the paw brings good luck. Whether students are about to take a final exam or are headed to the big game, Shasta's always available to the Cougar family. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies