UH Graduate School - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Graduate School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate School COVID-19 Updates Prospective/Admitted Students Current Students Admissions Where to Begin How to Apply Programs and Colleges Online Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Dual Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Program Admission Contacts and Deadlines International Students International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information GRE/GMAT Waiver Check Application Status Admitted Students Academics Graduate Programs Masters Programs Doctoral Programs Online Programs Graduate Certificates Dual-Degree Programs Accelerated Pathway Programs Doctoral Characteristics Graduate Program Review Academic Advising Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Student Handbook Thesis & Dissertation Outstanding Thesis Award Outstanding Dissertation Award Dissertation Accelerator CIRTL Co-curricular PD Registration International Students Where to Begin How to Apply International Applicants English Language Proficiency Transcript Information International Admitted Students I-20 and Financial Backing Information Graduate Funding How to Fund Graduate School Tuition & Fees Forms & Procedures Events Graduate Appreciation Week Calendar Graduate Orientation Graduate School Fair 3MT Ombuds About Graduate School Team Graduate & Professional Studies Committee (GPSC) Graduate & Professional Students Association (GPSA) Contact Us Contact Us FAQ's UH Home UH Graduate School Welcome to the UH Graduate School Virtual Information Session Would you like to learn more about what programs are offered at the University of Houston Graduate School? Register now for a UH Graduate School Information Session! The University of Houston Graduate School hosts virtual information sessions for prospective students. Our information sessions are similar to an open house, where you participate in the following: Presentation on what future students need to know about our admission requirements, admission deadlines, financial aid, degree requirements, student life in our college, etc. Connect and Interact with our college’s program managers and advisors – who can connect you with the program you are interested in! Open Q & A session These sessions will be held virtually through zoom. Once you sign up you will be sent a zoom invitation to attend the Information Session. The following Spring Virtual Informational Sessions dates are scheduled below: April 26th at 1:00pm May 3rd at 2:00pm May 5th at 1:00pm May 10th at 1:00pm May 12th at 2:00pm May 17th at 1:30pm May 19th at 1:00pm May 24th at 1:00pm May 26th at 1:30pm June 2nd at 1:00pm https://bit.ly/385SsbL Please register with the above link. Apply Now Start your journey down the path of success. Apply to the University of Houston Graduate School. Graduate Programs Jump start your career with a degree from one of the nation's top-ranked graduate programs. Explore them now! Tuition & Fees Discover the affordability of the University of Houston Graduate School. Financial Aid & Scholarships Find out how to pay for graduate school. Search financial aid and scholarships. Why the University of Houston Graduate School? The University of Houston was founded in 1927 and is now the third-largest school in the state of Texas. The Graduate School oversees over 6,000 students in a broad spectrum of programs, including master’s, doctoral, advanced certificate, professional, and joint degree programs. The University of Houston aims to actively recruit a diverse student population and challenge our scholars to develop new ideas and technology through hands-on application and mentoring under experienced professors who will become an integral part of your professional preparation. Our goal is to maintain our position at the forefront of research, innovation, and scholarship by providing opportunities for intellectual growth. Students at The University of Houston Graduate School experience unparalleled professional development opportunities, program flexibility, and academic support. Explore your future college below. Architecture & Design The Arts Business Education Engineering Hotel & Restaurant Management Law Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Natural Sciences & Mathematics Nursing Optometry Pharmacy Public Affairs Social Work Technology Our Mission Across over 150 graduate and professional programs, the University of Houston provides superior educational opportunities to its students at all levels of education. The mission of the Graduate School is to promote excellence in education by enabling graduate and professional students to research, study, and prepare professionally in an environment that fosters the growth of ideas and the spread of information. The University of Houston is committed to promoting diversity in both the culture of our student population and in the influx of knowledge we advocate as an institution. We continuously seek to create real-world applicable skills and aid our students in personal growth and development, while maintaining the highest level of academia. Our focus is you, and our goal is to provide you with an education you can be proud of. Top 50 Programs in US News & World Report 150+Master's, doctoral and professional degrees Top 14Ranked Online Graduate Education Program 15Fully Online Masters Programs Graduate School Events Graduate Orientation Date: Tuesday, August 17, 2021 Time: 9 AM (First Session) 1:30 PM (Second Session) Location: TBD This event will provide an overview of university services, procedures, and resources as they relate to graduate students, as well as an opportunity to meet students from other University of Houston programs. Graduate Research Showcase Date: TBA Time: TBA Location: TBA This event will showcase the rich array of groundbreaking research undertaken by University of Houston graduate students across all disciplines, provide networking opportunities, and celebrate the research, scholarship and creative endeavors of our students. Graduate School Fair Date: TBA Time: TBA Location: TBA The Graduate School Fair is the perfect opportunity for University of Houston undergraduate students to learn more about master's, doctoral, and professional programs at the University of Houston. Let's get social! Facebook Instagram Snapchat Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Tweets by UHGradSchool 4302 University Dr, Rm 102 Houston, TX 77204-2012 (713) 743-5284 A - Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Health Center Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies