Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Reservations University of Houston at Katy About Us News & Events Strategic Planning Campus and Academic Services Room Request Printing Services Campus Security Vending Services Reservations Parking Room Reservations at Katy Procedures, forms, policies and helpful information about the reservation process. Request a Room Reservation To request a room reservation, please use the UH at Katy Room Request Form. A room request is required to reserve all general and educational spaces at the site. Requests will be reviewed and assigned based on availability and compliance with University and site policies and regulations. Requests received less than 10 business days prior to the event may be denied due to insufficient time and/or space available to process and accommodate the request. A reply email will be sent to you, within 48 business hours, to confirm if your request has been approved. If approved, you will be provided all necessary details with regards to using the space. Please read the UH at Katy & Sugar Land Facilities Reservation and Use Policies (coming soon) External Clients, please refer to UH MAPP 09-03.01 – Facilities Use and Oversight to review the UH sponsorship requirements to host an event on our sites. For more information on UH sponsorship and/or questions regarding hosting an external event on site, please contact ktevents@central.uh.edu for more info. Event Set-Up and Clean-Up Procedures All set-up information should be included in the room reservation request. Please ensure to account for the set-up and breakdown time of your event on the room reservation form. Space(s) will only be made available during the times confirmed on the room reservation form. Requests for changes/additions to room set-up with less than 48 business hours’ notice will not be fulfilled. Leaving the facility in an unclean condition or damaging facilities and/or equipment may result in additional charges to the group for cleanup and/or recovery of losses. It also may result in loss of future privileges to reserve space. No items are permitted to be taped or nailed to the walls. Any damages sustained from such violations will be subject to additional charges. If room is not unlocked at the scheduled time of your event, please contact site Security at 832-842-3911 for a room unlock. Parking Parking permits are not required to park in the UH at Katy parking lots. Event Forms and Helpful Links UH MAPP 09-03.01 – Facilities Use and Oversight UH at Katy & Sugar Land Facilities Reservation and Use Policies (coming soon) Temporary Food Dealer’s Permit Request Form Open Flame Permit Form Vendor Tent Permit Request for Police Services UH Dean of Students Alcohol Policy Registration of Alcohol Beverage Distribution Form UH Logo Use for Marketing – Intellectual Property Use Permission Form The Fresh Fork – Catering at the University of Houston Questions? For any further questions, please contact the UH at Katy Academic Support team at ktevents@central.uh.edu. 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies