Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Cougar Ride Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Summer Schedule The Cougar Ride service will not be in operation May 13-Aug. 13. It will resume Aug. 14. REQUEST A RIDE! (Note: Link will not be active during times when the service is not running) Rides can be requested through the UH Go app. When requesting ride, check box if ADA access is needed. Cougar Ride Hours: 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. Sunday-Thursday The Cougar Ride After-Hours Shuttle Service is a program from Parking and Transportation Services that provides rides to and from all on-campus shuttle stops, as well as MD Anderson Library and Cougar Village/Moody Towers. The service is part of the multi-faceted approach of the Transportation & Security Work Group. This service is: * A late-night ride service that is a supplement to the Cougar Line Shuttles that operate during the day This Service is NOT: * Uber. The drivers will not take you to your door or vehicle. The Cougar Ride Van will drop you at your selected shuttle stop or stops at MD Anderson Library/Cougar Village/Moody Towers Please Note: * Be at the pick-up location when you make your ride request. Do not request a ride while still travelling to campus * Make sure you know which shuttle stop you are at when requesting your ride * Cougar Ride will not operate on days that home football games are held *Days/hours subject to change due to holidays or other unforseen circumstances. Notifications of changes will be posted to Parking and Transportation's social media, which can be found on the left side of the page. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies