Majors - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Majors At the University of Houston, you’ll find degree programs that will pave the way to the future you envision—whether you want to build the physical foundations of the future as an engineer or architect, shape young minds as an educator, or study how far humanity has already come as an anthropologist. Here are the areas of study available at UH, taught by world-renowned professors. Don't Know Where To Start? Take this assessment to find what majors and career options fit you best. Majors Freshman Majors with Additional Requirements - These majors have additional admissions requirements for freshman students. Please review our freshman majors with additional requirements to see what other criteria must be met for admittance into these majors. Transfer Majors with Additional Requirements - These majors have additional admissions requirements for transfer students. Please review our transfer majors with additional requirements to see what other criteria must be met for admittance into these majors. Online Program - These degree programs are also offered fully online. Nationally Ranked* *Some programs do not have a national ranking system. Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Architecture Environmental Design* Industrial Design Interior Architecture *All new Environmental Design students should select Architecture as their major when applying. Learn more about the Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design. Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Art Art History Dance Graphic Design Music Music Composition Music with Elective Studies Areas: Music Education, Music Marketing, Music Nonprofit Leadership Music Performance Music Theory Painting Photography/Digital Media Sculpture Theatre Learn more about the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts. C. T. Bauer College of Business Accounting Entrepreneurship Finance Management Management Information Systems Marketing Supply Chain Management All new students are admitted as Pre-Business. Once you complete the required University and business core classes, you're able to declare a specific major in business. Learn more about the C. T. Bauer College of Business. College of Education Health Human Development and Family Studies Teaching and Learning Learn more about the College of Education. Cullen College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Engineering and Analytics Construction Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Systems Engineering Learn more about the Cullen College of Engineering. Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership formerly the Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management Global Hospitality Leadership Learn more about the Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership. College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences African American Studies American Sign Language Interpreting Anthropology Chinese Studies Communication Sciences and Disorders Communication Studies Economics English Exercise Science Fitness and Sports French Health Communication History Human Nutrition and Foods Journalism Liberal Studies Media Production Philosophy Political Science Psychology Religious Studies Sociology Spanish Sports Administration Strategic Communication Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies World Cultures and Literatures Learn more about the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biochemical and Biophysical Sciences Biology Chemistry Computer Science Earth Science Environmental Sciences Geology Geophysics Honors Biomedical Sciences Mathematical Biology Mathematics Physics Learn more about the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. College of Nursing Pre-Nursing Nursing, BSN (RN-BSN) Nursing, BSN (Second Degree) Hobby School of Public Affairs Public Policy Learn more about the Hobby School of Public Affairs. College of Technology Biotechnology Computer Engineering Technology Computer Information Systems Construction Management Digital Media Electrical Power Engineering Technology Human Resources Development Mechanical Engineering Technology Retailing and Consumer Science Supply Chain and Logistics Technology Technology Leadership and Innovation Management Learn more about the College of Technology. Exploratory Studies Exploratory Studies is a short-term preparatory major for students still considering their major options and for those admitted because they didn't meet the specific admissions requirements for their chosen majors. Student Success Advocates will help you make informed career decisions and complete your prerequisite preparation so you can apply to change majors as soon as you are eligible. Learn more about Exploratory Studies. Pre-Professional Tracks Pre-Dentistry Pre-Law Pre-Medicine Pre-Optometry Pre-Pharmacy Pre-Physical Therapy Pre-Veterinary Medicine These are not majors, but if you choose a pre-professional track, your advisor will work to align your degree plan with prerequisite requirements for professional school. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies