Energy Leadership Certificate Series - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us Energy Leadership Certificate Series UH Energy and the Energy Coalition at the University of Houston are proud to announce our Energy Career & Leadership Webinars and the Certificate in Energy Leadership. These programs are based on a four-part webinar series, and are designed to prepare UH students for careers in energy, and for roles as future decision-makers within industry. Focusing on non-curricular aspects of leadership and team-building skills this non-credit program provides UH students with unique hands-on and practical information to further their career in the energy industry. The webinars feature some of the brightest minds of the marketplace. This educational opportunity will explore how the energy transition is transforming energy careers, as well as providing insights in leadership and team-building, which are crucial skills in the rapidly-changing energy industry. Webinar Registration: Webinar registration is open to all, but pre-registration is required: REGISTER NOW After you complete and submit the registration form, you will receive a unique, personal Zoom link for all four webinars. Alternative joining options (e.g., dial-in) will also be provided. Certificate in Energy Leadership Registration: The Certificate in Energy Leadership is a non-credit certification open to UH students only. All candidates must register for the webinar series, attend at least three of the live webinars, and achieve passing grades in online tests. To enable us to verify attendance, certificate candidates must enter “UH” or “University of Houston” in the “Organization” field, and provide their student ID in the “Student ID” field when they register for the webinars. When joining each webinar, they must use their unique, personal Zoom link. Failure to follow these instructions may disqualify candidates from receiving their certificates. Candidates who are unable to fulfill all of the above requirements (e.g., they cannot attend the live webinars due to schedule conflicts) should contact the program coordinator, Alan Rossiter aprossit@central.uh.edu before the first webinar. Webinar Recordings: We plan to record each session in this 4-part series, and will make those recordings available in the corresponding session panels below a few days after each live event. SERIES SESSIONS Session 1: Future of Leadership in Energy Organizations - February 11, 2022 | 10am - 11am Session Overview: The 5Cs that predict the success of an energy leader (Compatibility, Career, Capabilities, Capacity and Character) Guest Speaker: Chad Covey, Consultant, Spencer Stuart Chad is a consultant in Spencer Stuart’s Houston office and a member of the firm’s Energy, Industrial, CEO and Boards practices. Chad recruits and advises leaders in the energy, technology and financial services industries, with focus on board and C-level assignments. Chad holds an M.B.A. from the University of Houston and a master’s in international management from Thunderbird School of Global Management. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor’s degree in advertising. He is fluent in Spanish. SPEAKER ORGANIZATION WEBSITE SESSION RECORDING SPEAKER PRESENTATION SLIDES Session 2: Energy Careers Entering the Energy Transition - February 25, 2022 | 10am - 11am Session Overview: The major technological themes underlying the energy transition are driving the creation of new types of positions for energy professionals. In this presentation, we shall discuss the various stages of a job search, from soul-searching, to defining personal objectives and priorities, to applying for jobs, generating offers, and evaluating them. Guest Speaker: Saurabh Chaugule, Global Product Owner - Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage, Chevron New Energies Saurabh Chaugule is the newly-appointed Global Product Owner - Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage with Chevron New Energies. Previously he was Senior Program Manager - Strategic Planning & Energy Transition, at Shell Deer Park Refinery. Saurabh is a Chemical Engineer with a BS from University of Mumbai and a PhD from Purdue University. He is an Agile Senior Program Manager, and a strategic leader of global cross-functional teams with over 11 years of techno-economic experience in energy & chemical manufacturing industry. He is experienced in developing and implementing innovative technical solutions and lean business process improvements across the entire innovation value chain - from research & development to deployment and commissioning at integrated refinery and chemicals assets. He is passionate about accelerating energy transition and digitalization to ensure affordable sustainable supply of energy to a growing global populace. SPEAKER ORGANIZATION WEBSITE SESSION RECORDING SPEAKER PRESENTATION SLIDES Session 3: Leadership Skills for Renewable Energy - March 25, 2022 | 10am - 11am Session Overview: Renewable energy is projected to continue to grow in the energy transition. New leaders will emerge to lead and grow the industry. What leadership skills are needed to support this growth? What steps can a professional take at different stages of their energy career to prepare for leadership roles? How can the next generation of leaders shape the industry? Guest Speaker: Kay McCall, President and Executive Director, Renewable Energy Alliance Houston Kay McCall, President and Executive Director of the Renewable Energy Alliance Houston. Kay began her career as a trial lawyer but became the CEO of renewable energy company two decades later, a position she held for eight years. She also served as a member of the senior leadership team of GE Oil & Gas, and held other leadership positions in both large and small companies. Kay holds two degrees from the University of Houston (B.A, Political Science, J.D) and serves on the advisory board of the Gutierrez Energy Management Institute, C. T. Bauer College of Business. SPEAKER ORGANIZATION WEBSITE SESSION RECORDING SPEAKER PRESENTATION SLIDES Session 4: Building Effective Teams in an Evolving Energy Industry - April 8, 2022 | 10am - 11am Session Overview: How effective teaming can help individuals and organization better face the challenges of today’s energy sector Guest Speaker: Chad Covey, Consultant, Spencer Stuart Chad is a consultant in Spencer Stuart’s Houston office and a member of the firm’s Energy, Industrial, CEO and Boards practices. Chad recruits and advises leaders in the energy, technology and financial services industries, with focus on board and C-level assignments. Chad holds an M.B.A. from the University of Houston and a master’s in international management from Thunderbird School of Global Management. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor’s degree in advertising. He is fluent in Spanish. SPEAKER ORGANIZATION WEBSITE SESSION RECORDING SPEAKER PRESENTATION SLIDES UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies