International Freshman - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are International Freshman Page contents: Admissions Requirements English Language Requirements Deadlines Application Process I-20 (F1 Visa) Student Life Contact Scholarships for International undergraduate students are available. Learn more Scholarship Opportunities Scholarships for International undergraduate students are available. Learn more Exceptional Education. Extraordinary Experiences. Here, diversity is more than just a buzzword. It’s a way of life. It’s what happens when you drop a diverse student body into the middle of the fourth-largest city in America, surrounded by astronauts, Fortune 500 businesses, and magnetic sports teams. It’s what happens when your students come from over 45 states and 130 countries around the world. It’s what happens when your campus is truly a place for everyone. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. Apply with ApplyTexas Apply with the Common App Request Info Speak with an admissions expert International Freshman Students Read the brochure in Mandarin Admissions Requirements You'll apply as an international freshman student if you plan to attend the University of Houston: with citizenship from a country outside the U.S. have no college coursework (or have less than 15 credit hours from an accredited university). have an equivalent GPA 3.0 or higher (4.0 scale).* meet English Language Requirements.* Learn more. *Some majors have additional requirements other than the ones listed above, including SAT/ACT scores. For more information, visit uh.edu/freshman-majors-ar. See all International Freshman admissions requirements and instructions Majors with Additional Requirements Some majors have additional requirements on top of the ones listed above (like supplementary applications, different GPA needs, essential high school coursework, etc.). For more information, visit uh.edu/freshman-majors-ar . Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C.T. Bauer College of Business Cullen College of Engineering College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics College of Nursing College of Technology Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design The College of Architecture and Design admits students for the fall semester only. Applicants are required to meet general University requirements in order to be considered by the College. All applicants should submit an application and portfolio by the priority application deadline of February 1. Portfolio submission is strongly encouraged. Visit the College of Architecture and Design website Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts All College of the Arts applicants must submit a separate College of the Arts application. In addition, music, theatre, and dance applicants must also participate in an audition. Art, graphic design, painting, photography/digital media, and sculpture applicants must submit a portfolio. Art history applicants must submit an essay. Visit the College of the Arts website C.T. Bauer College of Business Applicants must meet the following requirements: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Admission Type Top 20% 1270 | 27 3.80 Assured Admission 21-50% or No Rank 1310 | 28 3.90 Assured Admission 51% and Lower 1310 | 28 3.90 Individual Review International Applicants: All applicants with international transcripts (coursework from a non-U. S. accredited high school) will go through individual review. Visit the College of Business website Cullen College of Engineering Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1270 (630 ERW) | 27 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 26-50% 1320 (630 ERW) | 28 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 51-75% 1400 (630 ERW) | 31 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 All Others 1420 (630 ERW) | 32 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 Visit the College of Engineering website College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1170 | 24 3.70 26-50% or No Rank 1220 | 25 3.80 51% and Lower Individual Review Individual Review In addition, applicants to the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, or Physics: 2 units English: 4 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus: 1 unit Visit the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics website College of Nursing Applicants must meet the following requirements for assured admission: Class Rank With a Test Score SAT | ACT Without a Test Score Calculated Unweighted GPA Top 25% 1220 (630 ERW) | 25 (54 ENG + READ) 3.70 26-50% 1270 (630 ERW) | 26 (54 ENG + READ) 3.80 51% and Lower/No Rank 1300 (630 ERW) | 27 (54 ENG + READ) 3.90 In addition, applicants to the College of Nursing must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, and 2 other advanced science courses: 4 units English: 4 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus or other advanced math: 1 unit Visit the College of Nursing website College of Technology Applicants to the College of Technology must complete the following high school coursework: Biology, Chemistry, or Physics: 2 units Algebra: 2 units Geometry: 1 unit Pre-Calculus: 1 unit English: 4 units Visit the College of Technology website English Language Requirements All applicants, regardless of citizenship status, must demonstrate proficiency in English to obtain admission to the university. To fulfill this requirement, you must satisfy at least one of the following criteria: Earn a high school diploma, Associate of Arts, Associate of Science, bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited U.S. high school, college or university. Complete the equivalent of a high school education or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree in a recognized English-speaking country. See list of recognized English-speaking countries Take the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) OR IELTS (International English Language Testing Service) OR the Duolingo English Test. See all test score minimums below. Complete Level 6 of the Intensive English Program at the University of Houston's Language and Culture Center. Test Score Requirements TOEFL (iBT) IELTS Overall Duolingo English Test SAT Total / Creative Writing* ACT Composite / English* 79 6.5 105 1170/530 24/21 The testing agency should mail official IELTS score reports to the University of Houston, Office of Undergraduate Admissions. *SAT/ACT scores are only required for special programs. Learn more about English Language Requirements Important Dates and Deadlines Spring 2022 Application Due: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 5, 2021 Summer 2022 Application Due: April 1, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: April 8, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Due: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 Fall 2021 Transcripts & Additional Materials July 19, 2021 Fall 2022 Scholarship Priority Deadline Application Due: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 15, 2021 Codes Use these codes to send your test scores to us directly from the testing agency: SAT: 6870 ACT: 4236 TOEFL 6870 *Supporting information includes application fee, test scores, and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Application Process Expand All Collapse All 1 Apply Online & Pay Application Fee Use ApplyTexas or the Common App to apply. Submit just one application. The application is where you’ll indicate to be reviewed with or without ACT or SAT test scores. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your achievements and extracurricular activities. Pay the $90 Application Fee for international students ($75 for U.S. applicants) when you submit your online application. 2 Submit Test Scores English Language Proficiency Requirement Have your TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English test score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. To learn about accepted test scores and exemptions, view our English language requirements. Admissions with (ACT or SAT) Test Scores Have your ACT or SAT score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. Admissions without (ACT or SAT) Test Scores If you applied for “admissions without a test score,” then skip this step. 3 Submit Academic Records Send official* secondary school or high school academic records (transcripts, mark sheets, graduation certificate, etc.), preferably submitted electronically through your school counselor via email or the Common Application. 4 Check Your Application Status Check your application status in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. 5 Receive Your I-20 Admitted students are notified by email and provided instructions to receive an I-20. Submit these materials after admission: Passport ID Financial Documents International Address Form Learn more about receiving your I-20 6 Become an #OfficialCoog Register for your mandatory Orientation in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Then, complete the International Student Check-In. Learn more about the International Student Check-In process at uh.edu/oisss/students. Receiving Your I-20 The following items are required to apply for an F-1 visa or maintain F-1 visa status. Upload your documents to your myUH self-service account at accessuh.uh.edu. (All documents must be uploaded as a PDF file.) Please note that the I-20 form and its required items do not need to be completed by application deadlines. Expand AllCollapse All Statement of Financial Support Form The Statement of Financial Support Form must be less than six months old from the date of the sponsor(s)’ signature(s). Bank Statement The bank statement must be less than six months old, and it must indicate a minimum balance of USD $41,410 or the equivalent. To upload: If you have more than one page, please save all pages into one PDF file before uploading. Copy of biometric page of current passport Submit a copy of your biometric page of your current passport (and U.S. visa, if available). International Address Form International students seeking an I-20 from the University of Houston must provide a physical address outside the United States in their home country using the International Address Form. Delivery and Pick Up Options Choose how you want to receive your I-20 from the three options below. Option 1: Regular Overseas Mail Overseas mail takes 4-6 weeks. If you want your I-20 sent by regular overseas mail, no response is required. Your I-20 will be sent by regular overseas mail to the address indicated on your International Address Form. Please do not e-mail to confirm your overseas address. Option 2: Express Mail With this option, you will receive your I-20 within 5 days after processing. Express mail is at the expense of the student. To select express mail: Go to the University Express Mail Service (UEMS) Select "Student Sign Up" Create an account Select the University of Houston as your school and the Office of Admissions as the department Enter your mailing, payment, and myUH ID Option 3: Pick Up Student I-20’s will be available for pick-up upon receipt of the I-20 Release Form. A confirmation e-mail for pick-up will be sent 3-5 business days from the date the release form is submitted. Student Life Housing Want to learn and grow in your own space? Living on campus is a great option. With multiple housing options to accommodate your campus experience, we can't wait to welcome you home! Get Involved 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sport teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. So, between classes and making memories that’ll last a lifetime, you’re going to have plenty to do. Guided Virtual Tours The Office of Admissions is now offering virtual campus visits. Register for an opportunity to receive a live campus tour from a UH student ambassador and a brief information session from an admissions representative. This visit is approximately 30 minutes. ISSSO International Student and Scholar Services (ISSSO) provides support for the special needs of international students and exchange visitors related to their status as non-immigrants of the United States. They offer many services such as facilitating official campus check-in and orientation, assisting with maintaining visa status and U.S. regulation compliance, providing counseling and advocacy services, and more. Questions? Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment Phone (713)-743-1010, option 4 Email admissions@uh.edu Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Instagram Reddit TikTok Coogcast View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies