Cost & Aid - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost & Aid 2021 Best Value College Our affordability and the quality of our academic programs are just two reasons the University of Houston was named one of The Princeton Review's "Best Value Colleges." Cost of Attendance Estimated Tuition & Fees for 2021-2022 Academic Year Resident Non-Resident Tuition $10,856 $26,096 Required Fees $1,014 $1,014 Total $11,870 $27,110 Tuition and fees are based on two 15-hour semesters in the 2021-2022 academic year. This is an estimate as costs may vary based on your academic college. Check out our tuition and fee calculator. See if you qualify as a Texas resident. Other Costs On-Campus Living at Home Off-Campus Room & Board $9,962 $4,409* $9,404* Books & Supplies $1,367* $1,367* $1,367* *Indirect expenses, not paid to the University of Houston, will vary based on individual choices. Financial Aid Scholarships UH has several scholarships for freshmen and transfer students. Scholarship criteria varies from one scholarship to another, but most scholarships are based on academic credentials like class rank, GPA, and/or standardized test scores. Here's what you need to do to be eligible for a university-funded scholarship: Complete the University of Houston application for admission using either the Apply Texas Application or The Common Application. Submit just one application. Complete your application for admission by the priority scholarship deadline. Scholarships may continue to be awarded after the priority deadline as long as funds are available. Scholarship Award Apply by Criteria for Consideration* Freshman Transfer Academic Excellence Scholarship Up to $6,000 per year; renewable up to four years Nov. 1, 2021 Varies from year-to-year. For Fall 2021, the average awardee had a 1350 SAT or 29 ACT and top 11% class rank National Merit Scholarship Full tuition and fees each year + research/study abroad stipend eligibility Nov. 1, 2021 National Merit Finalists Tier One Scholarship Full tuition and fees up to four years + two years of on-campus housing and meal plan + research/study abroad stipend eligibility Nov. 1, 2021 Varies from year-to-year. For Fall 2021, the average awardee had a 1474 SAT or 33 ACT and top 10% class rank. Includes an additional selection process. Cullen Leadership Scholarship $1,000 per year Nov. 1, 2021 Competitive academic profile and demonstrated leadership skills Transfer Excellence Scholarship $1,000 per year June 30, 2022 3.0 transfer GPA; 48+ transferable hours from a regionally accepted U.S. institution *We've gone test optional. For admission and scholarship consideration, our calculated unweighted GPA will be used in lieu of test scores. All UH Scholarships Get Help Grants Grants are financial awards that don't need to be repaid. In other words, it's free money! Grants are typically awarded based on financial need—unlike scholarships, which are usually based on merit. Loans Educational loans come from a variety of sources. The federal government, for example, provides several loan programs that offer below-market interest rates and other beneficial features. Other loan options, such as private bank loans, provide valuable help to students who need additional funding or may not qualify for federal loans. Work Study Through the work-study program, students with demonstrated financial need work a part-time job, on- or off-campus to earn money toward their college expenses (and gain valuable job skills, too!). Most students work 12 to 20 hours each week during the academic year. Students who wish to be considered for Work-Study should indicate interest on the FAFSA or contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. UH's Federal School Code: 003652 Apply for Financial Aid Get Help University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies