Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Education Submit Close COE Employee Intranet Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Education About Dean's Welcome Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Educator Preparation: Accreditation Support the College Houston is Home Office of Institutional Effectiveness Strategic Plan Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Graduate Recruitment Events Graduate Admissions UH at Sugar Land Programs Post-Baccalaureate (PB) Certificates & Certifications Financial Aid and Scholarships Degrees & Programs Departments Curriculum & Instruction Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences Student Services Financial Aid and Scholarships Certifications PEEPS Food Pantry Technology Services (CITE) Graduation Job Opportunities Advising (Undergraduate) Office of Undergraduate Studies Office of Graduate Studies Operating Procedures for Graduate Students Diversity and Support Research Study Participation Research Welcome from the Associate Dean for Research College of Education Office of Research Team Institutes & Centers Funded Grants and Projects Graduate & Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni Board Job Opportunities Giving Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Technology Services (CITE) Policies & Procedures MyCOE/Faculty & Staff Intranet Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences Page contents: Our Programs About PHLS Apply Now PHLS News & Features Short Takes Research Upcoming Events College Snapshot Contact Us The University of Houston’s Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences department is an interdisciplinary collection of scientists, scholars and educators committed to innovative research and academic excellence. We are dedicated to breaking down the traditional silos that place restrictions on how and what students learn. We are a forward-thinking institution committed to developing forward-thinking leaders who will face down the challenges of our modern world. And we do all this in a multicultural, multilingual campus (and city) that provides students and faculty members numerous opportunities to learn and grow in the classroom and out in the field. PHLS Faculty Directory Leadership How to apply Our Programs Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Our counseling psychology program generates new knowledge and trains community-engaged change agents. We provide our students the tools they need to help others navigate the modern world. Measurement, Quantitative Methods, & Learning Sciences Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) We help students develop a broad understanding of psychological and learning theories while also receiving strong quantitative methods training. School Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Our program is home to faculty and students committed to impacting the academic, behavioral and social-emotional functioning of children. Our faculty teaches students how to apply the core principles of school psychology inside and outside of schools. Counseling Master of Education (M.Ed.) We help students develop a deep understanding of counseling theories, skills and techniques. Our students gain an understanding of the role and influence of the counselor in providing services to a diverse population. Health Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Our program is dedicated to meeting the increased needs for public health educators, health promotion specialists and allied health professionals. We prepare graduates to work in a variety of settings. Human Development & Family Studies Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) & Bachelor of Science (B.S.) We provide a broad study of the intellectual, emotional, social and moral development of individuals and families. We prepare students for such careers as elementary school or special education teacher, human services administrator or day care director. About PHLS Expand AllCollapse All Department Overview We welcome you to the Department of Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences. We train the next generation of counseling, school, quantitative and learning science professionals. We prepare undergraduate students for work in the fields of health and human development & family studies. Our students and faculty are a vibrant group. We may practice different disciplines, but we're drawn together by a desire to right society's wrongs. We work to ensure people of all backgrounds have the opportunity to live healthy and productive lives. Our diversity — of thought, discipline, and background — unites us. This diversity will solidify our place among the top departments of our kind in the nation. It will also nurture what makes us unique amongst our peers. Mission Statement The mission of our department is to advance scientific knowledge, effect real-world change, maximize student potential for global competitiveness and enhance the quality and length of life in all segments of society. This mission has three critical goals: Leverage both innovative research and academic excellence to offer nationally competitive and internationally recognized degree programs — related to psychological, health and learning sciences — that prepare a diverse student body to serve an increasingly diverse society. Build an interdisciplinary enterprise that advances innovative scientific inquiry and services that have a measurable impact on the elimination of global disparities in health and education. Lead in the advancement of Houston’s future by establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships with local school districts; medical and mental health service agencies; and community-based organizations, coalitions and stakeholders. Program Values EXCELLENCE Engaging in innovative research and providing rigorous and pioneering programs of study that have significant social/educational impact and public health relevance. STUDENT SUCCESS Fostering robust mentoring relationships and providing exceptional undergraduate and graduate programs that prepare future professionals to solve real-world challenges and improve the lives of those they serve. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Sustaining strong long-term relationships that enable and enhance our collective impact on local, national and international communities through our research, teaching and service. DIVERSITY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE Valuing diversity and promoting social and academic inclusion to enrich learning, inform scientific inquiry and facilitate the development and delivery of culturally-informed services within a uniquely diverse metropolitan context. Furthermore, this involves challenging structural inequities to reduce disparities and promote social justice locally and globally. ACADEMIC INTEGRITY Fostering an educational culture that promotes collegiality, honesty, fairness, empowerment, transparency and collective responsibility. Apply Now Tour Campus Our Programs PHLS NEWS & FEATURES More stories News briefs Media mentions Top Graduates Ready to Transform Education Thirteen top graduates share their goals and advice on how to earn 4.0 GPAs. “Do not be afraid to ask questions, seek help when needed, stay focused, be positive and believe in yourself,” said Larry Chan, who is graduating with a B.S. in teaching and learning. School Psychology Student Leads with Empathy An immigrant from Costa Rica, Ph.D. student Elías Loría once struggled to assimilate to a new culture. He’s now using his voice to advocate for social justice as president of UH’s Graduate and Professional Student Association. Study: Latino Students in Rural Communities Left Behind Amid COVID-19 Professor Jorge Gonzalez found that one third of the Latino families surveyed in south central Texas did not have access to the internet and over half lacked digital devices. “Our findings are really important because it exposes a digital divide,” he said. Researchers Study Vaccine Hesitancy Amid COVID Rise Associate Dean for Research Ezemenari Obasi, who leads the UH HEALTH Research Institute, is working to mitigate COVID risk and illness with culturally responsive strategies. “What we want to do is empower people with strategies that make sense from their cultural standpoint,” Obasi said. Professors’ Program Trains Diverse Nutrition Educators Norma Olvera and collaborators received a $500,000 grant to create a paid internship program to increase the number of Hispanic and Black nutrition educators and address health disparities among children of color. “It’s an excellent opportunity,” Olvera said. Study: Anti-Gay Slurs Not Targeted Just at Gay Men Associate Professor Nathan Grant Smith explored whether heterosexual men who had their status threatened were more likely to use anti-gay slurs against other heterosexual men. “It is our hope that our research can help men to develop healthy masculinities that lift up all men, gay and straight alike,” Smith said. Professor Finds STEM Stereotypes Begin Young Assistant Professor Allison Master’s study found that children develop beliefs as young as six that boys are more interested than girls in STEM fields. “By the time they reach high school, many girls have made their decision not to pursue degrees in computer science and engineering because they feel they don’t belong,” Master said. Professors’ STEM Research Earns $500,000 Grant Allison Master and Weihua Fan have developed a series of studies to boost girls’ interest and participation in computer science by counteracting stereotypes. “We are interested in gender disparities in STEM because these have such important implications for our society,” Master said. COVID-19 Stress Hinders Parents’ Ability to Feed Children Associate Professor Leslie Frankel’s research found that psychological distress and anxiety induced by the pandemic has made it difficult for parents to gauge when their child is hungry or full, which can harm them in the long run. Counseling Psychology Alum Earns Noteworthy Board Certification Alum Laura Priorello earned board certification from the American Board of Professional Psychology in clinical health psychology. “This is a huge accomplishment that took approximately three years to complete,” she said. Award-Winning Staffer Supports Health Equity Research Research associate Isabel Martinez Leal won a 2020-21 Staff Excellence Award from the College for her efficiency, strong collaborative skills and commitment to health equity. “The most rewarding aspect of this work is to contribute to people improving their health,” she said. Professor Works to Eradicate Smoking Lorraine Reitzel, director of Taking Texas Tobacco Free, received a $1.9 million grant from the Cancer Prevention & Research Institute of Texas to expand the program to reach people struggling with addictions in rural communities. Research Looks to Improve Work for Marginalized Groups Associate Professor Blake A. Allan’s recent article discusses the causes and psychological effects of precarious work to advance research on the issue and help develop safety nets for people with risky jobs. Despite Challenges 2021 Grads Made their Mark Read about four undergraduate students who maintained 4.0 GPAs while showing strength and flexibility during the global pandemic. “The time at UH prepared me with significant experience for the job market,” said health major Dalia Hatem De Khattar. Short Takes Numerous Department of Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences faculty members were honored for their contributions to the second and third year of UH’s “50-in-5” research initiative. The follow professors were recognized for major grants unless indicated otherwise: Consuelo Arbona, Ann Chen, Virmarie Correa-Fernández, Marcel de Dios, Jorge Gonzalez, Milena Keller-Margulis, Rosenda Murillo (high-impact publication), Ezemenari Obasi and Lorraine Reitzel. Professor Norma Olvera has been elected president of the Hispanic Health Coalition for a two-year term. Alum Eduardo Elizondo has been named senior career advisor specialist within Houston ISD’s Career Readiness Department. Elizondo earned an M.Ed. in educational psychology from the College in 1995. Diane Elmore Borbon, who earned a Ph.D. in counseling psychology in 2002, has been named executive director of the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies. She earned the College’s Distinguished Alumni Award in 2019. David Graham, who earned a bachelor’s in health – kinesiology in 2009, won Administrator of the Year at Texas City High School in Texas City ISD. This is the second consecutive year he has won the honor. Research Research Grants and Opportunities Our faculty members’ research programs have received funding from federal and state organizations such as the Institute of Education Sciences, National Institute on Drug Abuse and Cancer Prevention & Research Institute of Texas. It is our mission to advance scientific knowledge, effect real-world change and enhance the quality and length of life in all segments of society. Our department is uniquely positioned to have a measurable impact on the elimination of global disparities in health and education. Learning, Instruction, & Student Success Innovative Measurement & Research Methods Development of Risk & Resilience Behavioral Health & Health Disparities Multiculturalism & Social Justice Program and Research Videos The following is a collection of brief video overviews of some of our most recent research findings. If you would like to learn more about our research, please visit our degree program pages. UPCOMING EVENTS View UH Calendar Jun 06 12:00 am Spring/Summer 2022: Key Dates Please note these key dates for the regular semester: The last day of class is Saturday, May 2. UH College of Education graduation is Sunday, May 15 at 2 p.m. at the Fertitta Center. The first day of classes for the summer mini semester is 5/16 and for summer sessions one, two and three is 6/6. Enjoy the rest of the semester! Jul 01 12:00 am Apply Now for Grad School! Do not miss the upcoming application deadlines for the College of Education. Upcoming: Apply for the Ed.D. in professional leadership — literacy education by June 1, 2022 and the M.Ed. in curriculum and instruction by July 1, 2022 for fall admission. Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 First Lecture returns to an in-person event. Kick off the academic year with inspirational speakers as they provide insights for moving forward toward a better future. Students, faculty, staff and community members are invited to this free event on Friday, Aug. 19, 2022 in-person at the University of Houston. COLLEGE SNAPSHOT Learn more about the College of Education’s programs, research, community engagement and more in our new magazine. Prospective students won’t want to miss this useful guide! Read on. Contact Us Department of Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences at the University of Houston Department Chair: Dr. Nathan Grant Smith UH College of Education Stephen Power Farish Hall 3657 Cullen Blvd., Room 491 Houston, TX 77204-5023 Department: 713-743-7397 Undergraduate: coeug@uh.edu or 713-743-5000 Graduate: coegrad@central.uh.edu or 713-743-7676 General: coecomm@uh.edu or 713-743-5010 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies