Test Optional Admissions - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Test Optional Admissions Page contents: What is Test Optional Admission? The Process Admission Requirements FAQs Apply Now Freshman applicants have the option to apply for admission with or without a test score for the following academic terms: spring 2022, summer 2022, and fall 2022. So, what exactly does that mean? Learn more below. What is test optional admission? Typically, when applying to college, freshman students would be required to submit SAT and/or ACT scores with their application. These scores would usually be taken into account as colleges determine admission decisions. However, due to the ongoing effects of COVID-19, the University of Houston has introduced test optional admission—students now have the choice to apply with or without these test scores. 3 Things You need to Know 01 You are not disadvantaged by applying without a test score. Please review your academic record and determine the best application option for you. 02 Apply through the Common App or ApplyTexas. Submit just one application. This is where you’ll indicate whether you want to be reviewed with a test score or without a test score. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your extracurricular activities. See the admission requirements 03 You can change how you are considered for admission after you submit your application. Just fill out the Admissions Review Option Change Form. If you already received a decision, however, you will not be able to change how you are considered for admission. Complete the form The Process Applicants can apply for admission to the University of Houston through CommonApp or ApplyTexas. For the Apply Texas Application, if you are applying for spring 2022, visit applytexas.org. If you are applying for summer 2022 or fall 2022 (and beyond), visit goapplytexas.org. This is where you'll specify whether you want to apply with or without a test score. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your extracurricular activities. If applying with a test score: Have your ACT or SAT score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. University of Houston ACT Code:  4236 University of Houston SAT Code:  6870 To comply with Texas Success Initiative standards, scores may not be more than 5 years old at the time of submission. If applying without a test score: All applicants applying without a test score must submit a short admissions essay and extracurricular activities—both can be submitted through Common App or ApplyTexas. Make sure to complete these sections before you finish and submit your application. You will not be able to go back and add your admissions essay or extracurricular activities once you’ve submitted your application. If you don't meet the assured admissions requirements, we may require additional documentation (like updated grades), which we'll request from you to help us make our decision. Changed your mind? If you want to change how your application is reviewed (with or without a test score) fill out the Admissions Review Option Change Form. You cannot submit this request if you have already received an admissions decision. Admission Requirements Admission requirements are different if you choose to apply without a test score. The admission criteria for each choice is below. WITH TEST SCORE Class Rank SAT or ACT Admission Type Top 10% No Minimum No Minimum Assured Admission 11 - 25% 1080 21 Assured Admission 26 - 50% 1170 24 Assured Admission 51% and Lower, No Rank —   —   Individual Review* WITHOUT TEST SCORE Class Rank Calculated Unweighted GPA** Admission Type Top 10% No Minimum Assured Admission 11 - 25% 3.40 or higher Assured Admission lower than 3.40  Individual Review* 26 - 50% 3.45 or higher Assured Admission lower than 3.45 Individual Review* 51% and Lower, No Rank —  Individual Review* *If you don’t meet the assured admissions requirements, we may consider additional factors in the admissions process. If we require additional documentation, we’ll request those materials from you.  **This unweighted GPA will be calculated by the University of Houston (out of a 4.0 scale) using English, math, science, and social studies grades on your transcript. Extracurricular classes will not be included.  Majors With Additional Requirements Some majors have additional requirements on top of the ones listed above. For more information, visit uh.edu/freshman-majors-ar. FAQs Expand AllCollapse All Which option should I choose? Everyone’s situation is different, so we recommend reaching out to your recruitment specialist to see which option may be best for you. The great thing is, whatever option you choose, can be changed later. So, if you decide that you want to change from applying with test scores to without or vice versa, there’s a form that can be filled out on our website. Remember, you can only submit this form if you have not received an admissions decision yet. Will I be less likely to be admitted if I apply without a test score? Not at all! You’re not penalized in any way for choosing to apply without a test score. Just keep our assured admission criteria in mind. If I choose to apply without a test score, what other documents will I need? It depends. If you meet the assured admissions criteria, we won’t need anything other than your official transcript. If you don’t, we’ll individually review your file. For that, we’ll need a resume and a personal statement. We’ll let you know if we need those documents. I already applied without a test score, but now I wish I had applied with a test score instead. Can I change how my application is reviewed? Yes. If you have already submitted an application, but would like to change how you'll be considered for admission (with or without a test score), please complete the Admissions Review Option Change form. You can only submit this form if you have not received an admissions decision yet. If I choose to apply without a test score, will I still be eligible for scholarships? Yes! Students who apply without test scores are still eligible for scholarships and will be reviewed by our Office of Scholarships & Financial Aid for our merit scholarships. Ready to apply? Apply with the Common Application Apply with the Apply Texas Application Learn more about freshman admissions University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies