Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Zoned Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Zone Parking The ungated parking lots on campus are broken down into six different zones for the 2021-2022 academic year. Click on each zone name below to pull up more information. Zone permits can be purchased by students, faculty and staff. Zone A Zone A comprises lots 16D, 16E, 17A, 17C and 17D on the north side of campus. Close to: General Services Building, Houston Public Media, Schroeder Park, Cullen Intramural Fields Google Street View Lot 16D Google Street View Lot 16E Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Zone B Zone B is located on the north side of campus, just south of Elgin Street, and comprises lot 16B and 16C (ungated). Close to: Blaffer Art Museum, Moores Opera House, Moores School of Music, Wilhelmina's Grove, Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design, Jack J. Valenti School of Communication, Fertitta Center Google Street View Lot 16B (view 1) Google Street View Lot 16B (view 2) Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Zone C Lots 21A, 19C, 18A, 19D and 21B make up Zone C, which is near University Lofts and the UH Law Center. Close to: University Lofts, UH Law Center, Melcher Hall, Cemo Hall, Durga and Sushila Agrawal Engineering Research Building, Student Center North and South, University Classroom and Business Building, Cullen College of Engineering 1 and 2 Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Zone D Zone D is on the southeast side of campus and includes ungated lots 4A, 3B, 3A, 5C, 5D, 5E and 6C. Close to: Bayou Oaks, Moody Towers, Moody Towers Dining Commons, Health 1, Health 2, Welcome Center, South Park Annex Google Street View Lot 4A (view 1) Google Street View Lot 4A (view 2) Google Street View Lot 3B Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Zone E The largest zone on campus is Zone E, located south of Wheeler Avenue. It includes lots 8A, 9C, 8B, 9B and 10A. Close to: Cullen Oaks, Cambridge Oaks, Quadrangle, Cougar Woods Dining Commons, Cameron Building, Clinical Research Services Center, Student Services Center 1, Student Services Center 2, Cougar Villages I and II, Justin Dart Jr. Center for Students with Disabilities Google Street View Lot 8A (view 1) Google Street View Lot 8A (view 2) Google Street View Lot 9C (view 1) Google Street View Lot 9C (view 2) Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Zone F Zone F comprises lot 12A, 12B, 15C and 11B, near TDECU Stadium. Close to: TDECU Stadium, Cougar Place, UH Police Department, Cougar Woods Dining Commons, McElhinney Hall, Heyne Buiding, Fleming Building, Science Teaching Laboratory Building, Child Care Center, A.D. Bruce Religion Center, Farish Hall, R. Cullen Building, Garrison Gym and the Fertitta Center. Google Street View Lot 12A (view 1) Google Street View Lot 12A (view 2) Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Campus Zones 2021-2022 Map (click to enlarge) Do NOT park in restricted spaces, including reserved, disabled, 20-minute unloading and metered. If you park in a metered space with your permit, you must pay. Campus Zones 2022-2023 Map (click to enlarge) WHICH ZONE IS BEST FOR YOU? The six parking zones are located in different parts of campus. Students deciding which zone to select can use the following guide to help them make the choice that works the best for them. Nearest by College Zone A Nearest to colleges listed for Zone B (Zone A is just north of Zone B) Zone B Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Graduate College of Social Work College of Technology Zone C C.T. Bauer College of Business Cullen College of Engineering UH Law Center Zone D Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership College of Optometry College of Pharmacy Zone E Nearest to the colleges listed for Zone F Zone F College of Education Hobby School of Public Affairs Note: The various departments within the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences are located in different parts of campus. For help deciding which zone is closest to each of the CLASS departments, contact Parking and Transportation Services at parking@uh.edu or 832-842-1097. Nearest by Residential Community Zone A Not near any on-campus residential communities Zone B Not near any on-campus residential communities Zone C University Lofts Zone D Moody Towers Cougar Village I Cougar Village II Zone E Cullen Oaks Cambridge Oaks Quadrangle Zone F Cougar Place University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies