Arts Leadership - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Arts Leadership About Instructors Program Graduates Community Partners Admissions Academics Master of Arts Dual Degree Program Arts and Health Certificate Museum and Gallery Management Certificate Resources News Giving JOIN THE NEXT GENERATION OF ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT LEADERS The Arts Leadership in the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts at the University of Houston takes an entrepreneurial approach to preparing creative professionals to launch, administer and maintain arts organizations of all sizes. Advanced Studies. The degree program provides advanced study in the management and promotions of arts organizations across artistic disciplines. Flexible Schedule for Working Professionals. The arts leadership master's degree program is designed to accommodate students who are working professionals. Those who wish to continue full-time or part-time employment may complete this program within five years. All core courses are offered during evening hours. Real World Experience. All students will be required to complete internships with established, professional, arts organizations in in the greater Houston area. They will have access - through guest lecturers, workshops and panels both in class and in the community - to interact with local and national leaders of distinction in the fields of arts, entertainment and culture. The Latest University Updates on COVID-19 Apply Now Instructors Giving Master of Arts The graduate program in Arts Leadership will provide advanced study in the management and promotion of arts organizations across artistic disciplines. Dual Degree Program The dual degree options present a unique opportunity for performers, studio artists, and scholars to combine discipline-specific arts practices with the field of professional arts administration. Arts and Health Certificate The graduate certificate in Arts and Health combines the fine and performing arts into the areas of health, healthcare and well-being. Museum and Gallery Management Certificate Museum management is transferable across various types of museums, including children’s museums, history museums, natural science museums, etc. “The Arts Leadership Program is impressively crafted. The professors are not only industry professionals themselves but they increase access to other industry professionals through guest speaking. The projects assigned are practical and relevant and send students out into the community, which only contributes to each student’s network. Most importantly, my fellow MAAL students are equally impressive, all in their own right. My relationships with them are, by far, my most valuable outcome.” Isabelle Dom (MA ’17) 3700 Cullen Blvd, Room E128 Houston, TX 77204-4039 713-743-3019 Contact Us Arts Leadership Director: Fleurette Fernando 713-743-4817 arld@uh.edu Admissions 713-743-5934 Schools and Centers Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 School of Art 713-743-3001 School of Theatre & Dance 713-743-3003 Arts Leadership 713-743-4817 Blaffer Art Museum 713-743-9521 Center for Art & Social Engagement 713-743-4281 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts 713-743-7008 ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies