Self-Guided Tours - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Visit Self-Guided Tours Self-Guided Tours Virtual tours Explore all the hot spots across 600 acres of the University of Houston’s campus. Whether you’re interested in campus life or an academic college, this virtual visit will give you an in-depth look at what it’s like to be a student at UH. Campus Life Virtual Visit You've never seen a campus like this before. Get a holistic look at everything our University has to offer. From the restaurants in our Student Center to the rock wall in our Recreation and Wellness Center, we have everything you could ever want or need. (Yes, seriously. A rock wall.) Launch Experience Academic College Virtual Visit Curious about a specific academic college? Or want to know a little bit about all we have to offer? Take a look at this virtual visit, which will show you everything from the stock ticker at the C. T. Bauer College of Business to the breathtaking design of the Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture. Launch Experience Self-Guided Tour Map Exploring the University of Houston in-person? Use our self-guided tour map to help navigate through our various academic colleges, activity areas, restaurants, and essential student resources. View the Self-Guided Tour Map Parking on Campus The most central visitor parking on campus is located near our Welcome Center. Type "University of Houston Welcome Center Parking Garage" (4434 University Dr, Houston, TX 77204) into your preferred navigation app and you will be correctly routed. Parking charges will apply. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies