Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Students Students DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. YOU BELONG HERE. At the University of Houston at Sugar Land, you’ll experience an engaging classroom culture that will transform your future. From nursing to digital media, our programs drive students to discover innovative solutions to real-world situations. Volunteerism and community service are also a big part of UH’s commitment to engage students directly with local agencies and nonprofit organizations. We are UH, Tier One in Fort Bend County. View our Degree Programs > Contact an Advisor > Guide to Undergraduate Programs offered at UH at Sugar Land > CoT Transition to Sugar Land Following the vision of University of Houston President Renu Khator, the College of Technology is beginning its journey to Sugar Land. View Timeline, FAQs and more > WELCOME TO THE POWERHOUSE Tour our Campus > Our scenic campus is located on 270 acres near the banks of the Brazos River. Come see our state-of-the-art facilities and public art collection. Find Your Degree Program > Whether planning for a career or looking to make a change, UH at Sugar Land can be part of your success. We offer 10 undergraduate programs and 11 graduate programs. Apply, Register and Enroll > The Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services provides special events and support services on select days of the week so you can easily enroll and register for classes. Scholarships and Financial Aid > The UH Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid provides financial assistance to students through grants, loans, scholarships and employment. Students specifically attending classes at the Sugar Land instructional site may be eligible for private donor scholarships. Tuition & Fees > EXPLORE & CONNECT Get Involved Successful students are involved students. Learn more about UH student organizations hosted at Sugar Land: • Supply-chain Industrial Distribution Organization (SIDO) • Graphic Communication Education Association • UH Nursing Alumni Association Find Study Space Study with a group or quietly alone in the many study areas at UH at Sugar Land. • Library • Open Computer Lab • Student Lounge • Silent Study Space Library Resources The University Branch Library located at UH at Sugar Land offers many academic resources for students, faculty and staff. From research assistance to reserving library materials to getting a library card—academic liaisons are ready to help. Learn about all the University Branch Library resources > Some programs and/or classes are offered exclusively at UH at Sugar Land. Meet the incredible team of academic advisors who can answer your questions regarding program and course offerings. Meet the team > Need Help? The University of Houston at Sugar Land is located at the intersection of US-59 south and University Boulevard, just northeast of the Brazos River, one exit south of Sweetwater/First Colony Boulevard. We offer large state-of-the-art classrooms, computer and multimedia laboratories, as well as a campus library and bookstore. Explore our full list of campus services and student resources below. CAMPUS INFORMATION Building Hours Parking Services Transportation Services Directions to Campus Library Bookstore Get a Snack INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Contact IT Service Desk Connect to WiFi Learn about Computing Services Computer Labs MEDIA RELATIONS Emergency Notifications Momentum Newsletter The Cougar UH Today UH Magazine OTHER Contact Security Request a Security Escort 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies