Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Information Technology Faculty & Staff IT Services Campus Services Information Technology Faculty & Staff IT Services Active Learning Classroom IT Service Catalog IT Staff Student IT Services Printing Services Library Dining Services Campus Security Facilities Room Request Bookstore Shuttle Service Parking Campus Safety Room Reservations Faculty & Staff IT Services UH at Sugar Land has a variety of technology resources for use by faculty. This includes classroom technology, computing resources & support, videoconferencing and telecommunications resources. A listing of all IT services available at the University's Sugar Land location is found in the IT Service Catalog. Need Help? Call 832-842-2999 | Email SLTech@uh.edu | Web Online Service Desk Summer Hours of Operation June 6 - August 14 Intercession Hours Reduced hours will be in effect between semesters. Regular hours will resume on June 6. Reduced Hours: May 16 – June 5 MON-THU | 8:00 a.m. – 6:45 p.m. FRI | 8:00 a.m. – 4:45 p.m. SAT-SUN | Closed IT Service Desk (AMG 304) hours MON-THU 7:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT-SUN CLOSED Building hours (AMG, BH2 and SAB1) MON-THU 7:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT-SUN CLOSED The University is closed May 30, 2022 for Memorial Day and July 4, 2022 for Independence Day. Please call 832-842-2999 to inquire about hours during holidays or between semesters. Faculty and Staff Resources Connect to Wireless Faculty and staff can connect their mobile devices to the Internet via the UH wireless network Faculty Lounge Computer Workstations The Faculty & Staff Lounge in AMG 107 has 7 individual carrels with computers for “come and go” users, along with a black & white laser printer. CougarNet Password Wizard Faculty and staff use their CougarNet account to log on to the computers. Those who need to reset their CougarNet password, or another UH account password, can use the CougarNet Password Wizard Software Software for use on faculty or staff’s personal laptops or home computers is available to download from the UIT Software Download site. To request new software be installed or upgraded on computers in a classroom or computer lab, please log into the Sugar Land intranet and fill out the “Classroom Software Request” form under the IT Services section. Schedule Technology Rooms All the room technology at UH at Sugar Land is reserved via the room reservation process. For details about the technology in the rooms at UH at Sugar Land, please view the IT Service Catalog. 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies