Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to DSAES Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Home About Us A Message from the VP Vice President's Staff Executive Leadership Assessment and Planning Marketing and Communications Advancement DSAES Committees Assessment Committee Development Committee Diversity and Inclusion Committee Marketing Communications Group Professional Development Committee Student Auxiliary Committee Customer Service Standard Division Recognition DSAES Awards Golden Paw Employee of the Month Annual Reports and Presentations Strategic Planning Contact Us and Organizational Chart News Student Employee Spotlight Departments Department List Enrollment Services Get Involved Get Support Live on Campus Stay Healthy Events UH History and Traditions UH SAES Leadership Conference DSAES Event Calendar CoogNews eBlast Contact Us Resources Students Faculty/Staff DSAES Staff Consumer Information Sexual Violence Prevention Education Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ DACA: What You Need to Know DACA-FAQ Philanthropy Cougar Emergency Fund Diamond Family Scholars Program Student Scholarship Spotlight CoogsCare Supporting Student Success The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Teaching Students to Stay Healthy We offer programs and services that address the mind, body, and spirit. Our students have many fitness and athletic options to explore and have access to excellent healthcare services. Leading Students to Get Involved We help students get involved on campus to better develop leadership skills, character, and discipline. We create global citizens who are ready to contribute to the world. Providing Ways to Get Support We provide opportunities for students to achieve their goals by offering services that complement their academic experiences. We support students' general needs that, when met, provide a foundation for academic and personal success. Encouraging Students to Live On Campus Living in a residence hall provides access to many services and resources, as well as the support to focus on academics and the experience of being a part of a diverse community. Empowering Students to Take Charge We support prospective and admitted students through a variety of resources and touchpoints throughout their college life-cycle that lead to retention and timely graduation. Thank you to these donors from DSAES for supporting UH! Dr. Daniel M. Maxwell, Ms. Suzanne L. Harrington, Dr. Raven L. Jones, Ms. Janelle Renee Brown, Mr. Kenneth Mauk, Mr. Keith T. Kowalka, Mr. Lawrence Daniel, Mr. Ghazanfar Ali, Ms. Georgeann W. Smith, Miss Alicia V. Whitmire, Ms. Briget A. Jans, Mr. Kamran Riaz, Ms. Hope Suzanne Pacheco, Ms. Janet Clemenson, Mr. John A. Shiflet, Ms. Gayle D. King, Mrs. Maria Rendon, Mrs. Katina D. McGhee, Mr. Anthony D. Stott, Ms. Kimberley R. Monroe, Mr. Eura C. Miles Headlines DSAES News Graduation ceremony honors UH international students International students at the University of Houston were part of the 6,000 Coogs who earned their diplomas this spring. They may have been lost in the larger crowd, but the International Student and Scholar Services Office made sure they received special recognition for their hard work. Trina Lowery joins Center for Student Empowerment Trina Lowery has joined the Center for Student Empowerment as its new assistant director. Alyssa Veteto named new assistant dean of students Alyssa Veteto has been named the new assistant dean of students in the Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services. Veteto joined the Dean of Students Office in the Division on May 9, and as assistant dean she will work with student conduct process, supporting students through advocacy and resource referrals, reviewing policy, and supporting the office’s work. Laura Zavala-Membreno named interim director of Women and Gender Resource Center Laura Zavala-Membreno has been named the new interim director of the Women and Gender Resource Center in the Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services. Zavala-Membreno will oversee the day-to-day operations of the Center, which challenges gender inequities on campus to help all students, faculty and staff succeed. Follow us on social media Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Powered by Curator.io UH at Sugar Land UH at Sugar Land is a location of the University of Houston and home to many UH programs. The Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services (DSAES) provides support services and events throughout the academic year. All students are invited to use these resources. Learn more about the DSAES departments at UH at Sugar Land. Learn More about UH at Sugar Land UH at Katy The University of Houston at Katy brings Tier One higher education to a growing region rich in ambition, drive and vision. The 80,000-sq.-ft-facility features state-of-the-art labs and studios for students pursuing studies with the UH College of Nursing and the UH Cullen College of Engineering. Learn More about UH at Katy University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies