Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event A Small Molecule Activator of the TET2 Tumor Suppressor Tuesday, May 3, 2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm About the Event TET2 is a tumor suppressor gene that is frequently mutated in hematological cancers. TET2 protein is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of 5-methyl-cytosine and DNA demethylation. Bin Guo, Ph.D., discovered a small molecule compound that directly activates the enzyme activity of TET2. It has demonstrated strong antitumor activity in leukemia cells and mouse models. About the Speaker Bin Guo has a broad background and research expertise in both cancer pharmacology and drug discovery. His current research focuses on developing new cancer therapeutics including RNA nanoparticle-carried small RNAs and small molecule drugs targeting epigenetic regulators. His lab has published papers in high-impact journals (including Nature Nanotechnology, Gastroenterology, and Cancer Research). REGISTER Location Zoom Cost Free Contact Diana Burke DDI University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies