School Counselors - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are School Counselors The University of Houston provides school counselors with admissions resources to help students learn more about educational opportunities available here. We are committed to providing future students the best answers to questions about our community. We understand that students, parents, counselors, and teachers need to be well informed in order to make decisions about higher education. Choosing UH Established in 1927, the University of Houston empowers students in their pursuit of learning, discovery, leadership and engagement. Located in a sprawling metropolis, our premier Tier One campus is home to award-winning faculty, innovative research centers, alumni who have become international leaders and one of the most diverse student populations in the nation. 47,000 + Students 250 + Undergraduate Majors and Minors 37 Research Centers 16 Academic Colleges 23:1 Student-to-Faculty Ratio Diversity and Inclusion Made up of students from 137 different countries, our student body is one of the most diverse in the country. Visit the Center for Diversity and Inclusion Campus Organizations 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sport teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. Get Involved Scholarships and Financial Aid The Princeton Review named the University of Houston a Best Value College for 2021. We offer various forms of financial aid, including merit scholarships and programs like the Cougar Promise. Go to the Scholarships and Financial Aid website Majors and Minors Your student will find more than 110 degree programs across our 10 undergraduate academic colleges. View all undergraduate programs Campus Traditions From a lovable feline to an all-campus fiesta, the University of Houston builds community and generates fun with a variety of time-honored traditions. Learn more about campus traditions Previous Next Diversity and Inclusion Made up of students from 137 different countries, our student body is one of the most diverse in the country. Visit the Center for Diversity and Inclusion Campus Organizations 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sport teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. Get Involved Scholarships and Financial Aid The Princeton Review named the University of Houston a Best Value College for 2021. We offer various forms of financial aid, including merit scholarships and programs like the Cougar Promise. Go to the Scholarships and Financial Aid website Majors and Minors Your student will find more than 110 degree programs across our 10 undergraduate academic colleges. View all undergraduate programs Campus Traditions From a lovable feline to an all-campus fiesta, the University of Houston builds community and generates fun with a variety of time-honored traditions. Learn more about campus traditions UH Class of 2025 At a Glance 47,000 students enrolled 35,000+ freshman applications received 24% increase in international students 1215 -> 1240 average SAT score increase $232 million dollars in financial aid distributed every year 39th in the nation in the social mobility index 62% 6-year graduation rate 46.3% first-generation students 17 programs in or around Top 50, according to U.S. News and World Report Preparing Applications Admissions Requirements Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Residency Requirements Texas Uniform Admissions Policy Sending Supporting Information Expand All Collapse All Submitting Transcripts To expedite admission decisions, the University of Houston requires U.S. freshmen applicants to self-report high school grades as part of the admissions application process. Applicants must report grades from all English, math, science, and social studies courses. Learn more about self-reporting View our transcript submission guidelines Submitting Test Scores Have ACT or SAT score(s) sent to us directly from the testing agency. Our code for ACT is 4236; SAT is 6870. If your student is applying test-optional, they will not have to submit test scores. Learn more about test-optional admissions Changing Majors Newly admitted students and Freshman and Transfer applicants can use this form to request a change of major. Freshman Change Major Request Form Transfer Change Major Request Form Changing Terms Undergraduate applicants may request to change the admission term of their application by completing the Application Term Change Request Form. This form is due by the application deadline for the new term. Request to change an application term Meet Your Admissions Representative Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Find Your Representative Advising Access UH Applicants can log into AccessUH with their myUH ID to access their self-service portal, check their application status, and view their To-Do list items. Log into AccessUH. AP Test Program & International Baccalaureate Did you earn college credit in high school? See what exams and courses qualify for credit. Learn more. Honors Application The Honors College application has specific requirements students have to meet before they are accepted into one of the programs. Find out more. Undergraduate Catalog A full list of the courses available at the University of Houston with descriptions. Check it out. Transferring Credit Transferring college credits can be confusing. Meet our Transfer Credit Estimator, a new tool designed to help you and your students estimate how many course credits may transfer to their chosen degree program at the University of Houston. More About Transferring Credit Launch the Transfer Credit Estimator View Transfer Equivalency Guides Visiting UH Group Visits The Office of Admissions is now offering 90-minute, in-person group tours. At this time, we are are only able to provide group tours for up to 60 people, including chaperones, to groups of students 9th - 12th grade or prospective transfer students. If your group does meet this criteria, please explore our virtual group visit opportunities! Register for a Group Visit. Counselor Visit Program Cougar Travel is a counselor fly-in event that allows school counselors to explore our campus, academic departments, and on-campus programs that support student success. It is by invitation only. If you're interested in attending,  fill out the form. Submit a nomination. Counselor Updates Join representatives from the University of Houston and Texas Tech University for a one-hour virtual information session with important updates from our two institutions. We'll cover the latest on admissions, scholarship and financial aid opportunities, and important updates and policy changes for the academic year. Fall 2021 Counselor Updates have concluded. Please check back here for updates on future events. Cost & Aid Tuition Everything you need to know about the cost of attending the University of Houston. Find out more. Scholarships & Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid can answer all your questions on how to help your student get financial assistance. Find out more. FAFSA To be considered for federal financial aid, student must file the FAFSA by April 1. The University’s FAFSA code is 003652. Find out more. COVID-19 Financial Aid Beginning September 1, 2021, the University of Houston has emergency grant funding available to assist students whose households have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Request an application. Supporting our counselors Join the Counselor Mailing List View Details Get the inside scoop on all things UH admissions sent straight to your inbox. Sign-up for the mailing list Back Request UH Swag View Details Spread the Cougar red spirit with your students and request swag from the University of Houston! Get your UH swag Back Counselor Advisory Board View Details The Counselor Advisory Board is a group of highly recommended school counselors who advise UH in admission policies and practices aimed to better serve students through the college-going experience. Express Your Interest Back College Readiness View Details It's never too early to start planning for college. Our Access and Outreach team empowers students grades K-12 by educating them on the benefits of a college degree. Learn more about College Readiness Back Admissions Brochures View Details View the Freshman brochure View the Transfer brochure View the International Freshman brochure View the International Transfer brochure Back Counselor Handout View Details Check out our counselor handout, designed for counselors to share with their students. This handout gives an overview of UH admissions information. View the Counselor Handout Back University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies