Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Research Research Reports Carbon Mgmt Survey 2020 UH Energy About UH Energy Energy Events Research Unconventional Resources Forbes Blog Contact Us Connections Newsletter Energy News Energy Events Archive SED Program EDAC Program ESG Program Micro-credentialing Hub Carbon Management: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action Between October 15 and 22, 2020, the Hobby School of Public Affairs and UH Energy conducted a survey of 1,500 respondents to assess public opinion towards climate change, support for polices aimed at curbing carbon emissions, and the public’s willingness to pay for decarbonized electricity, gas, and fuel. We find that reducing the human carbon footprint is a salient concern among respondents in the US, as well as in Texas, the center of energy production in the country. That concern translates to expectations of policy changes and environmental stewardship practices by government, firms, and consumers. The survey also revealed that there has been a significant shift in public opinion in Texas, with respondents expressing views similar to the rest of the country. While there is broad-based support for reducing emissions and concern about climate change, our survey shows that respondents had overall little knowledge of climate policies and mitigation efforts, such as cap and trade or carbon tax. VIEW THE REPORT MEDIA RELEASE Carbon Management: Changing Attitudes and Opportunity for Action Webinar Carbon Management: Changing Attitudes and Opportunity for Action Webinar WATCH NOW Webinar held on: December 18, 2020, 12pm A webinar discussing the highlights of the University of Houston's Hobby School and UH Energy 2020 Carbon Management Survey. Contributors: Gail Buttorff, PhD, co-Director of the Survey Research Institute, Hobby School of Public Affairs, UH Francisco Cantu, PhD, co-Director of the Survey Research Institute, Hobby School of Public Affairs, UH Aparajita Datta, PhD Candidate, Department of Political Science, University of Houston Ramanan Krishnamoorti, PhD, Chief Energy Officer, University of Houston Yewande Olapade, PhD, Post-Doctoral Fellow, Hobby School of Public Affairs, UH Pablo M. Pinto, PhD, Director, Center for Public Policy, Hobby School of Public Affairs, UH Oil And Gas Industry Must Get Serious About Climate Change To Compete For Millennial And Gen Z Workforce The oil and gas sector has an image problem among the workforce it needs for the future. To compete with the tech, medical and other industries, it will have to do more than pay lip service to addressing climate change. EMILY PICKRELL | JANUARY 12, 2021 2 Texas House Bills Look To Curb Natural Gas Flaring One bill would significantly limit the practice of natural gas flaring and venting. The other House Bill directs the state to further study the impacts. KYRA BUCKLEY | JANUARY 6, 2021 Editorial: The transition from fossil fuel is an opportunity for Texas The Texas Alliance of Energy Producers represent more than 3000 members across the state who are mostly small, independent producers of oil and gas. THE EDITORIAL BOARD | JANUARY 4, 2021 Attitudes in Texas are warming up to climate change, study reveals. The Lone Star State appears to be warming up to the idea of climate change. Researchers from the University of Houston say most Texans currently believe climate change is real and are even willing to pay more for low-carbon products; mirroring the general opinion shared by the nation. ASHLEY PEPPRIELL | DECEMBER 28, 2020 Climate, Energy, And Essential Infrastructure In Texas Essential infrastructure spending and regulation is on the agenda of the upcoming biennial session of the Texas legislature. Some believe that there are competing interests are at play—wind and solar energy versus oil and gas producers. ED HIRS | DECEMBER 23, 2020 Survey Summary Findings A brief summary of the findings are as follows: About 80% of Americans and almost 81% of Texans say they believe climate change is happening and almost two-thirds of respondents are either very or somewhat worried about climate change. Among those who believe in climate change, 75% believe that it is cause mostly by human activities. About two-thirds say oil and gas companies should adopt carbon management technologies. More than 50% of respondents believe that the government should promote, incentivize, and subsidize carbon management technologies. By far, the largest share of respondents (43%) believe that if the government were to implement a tax on carbon emissions, it should use the revenue to fund and support research for energy and the environment. 64% of people nationally, and 61% of Texans, say hydraulic fracturing has a negative effect on the environment. Almost two-fifths of respondents either strongly or somewhat support the expansion of natural gas pipelines; 35% neither supported nor opposed. Mitigation strategies aren’t well understood. 61% have heard of carbon taxes, while less than half are familiar with carbon management and just 33% have heard of carbon pricing. Younger people and those with more education had higher levels of awareness. More than 70% of respondents said that the governments of developed countries as well as the oil and gas industry were either very or somewhat responsible for climate change; however, attributing responsibility to various entities increased with respondents’ issue knowledge. Over 90% of respondents said they would be willing to pay a non-zero amount on carbon neutral fuel; 82% were willing to pay $1 to $5 more. Only about a quarter of respondents were willing to pay $1-10 more per month on their electricity bill for 100% renewable energy. However, Texans are willing to give up a higher amount for renewable energy compared to respondents from other states. Over 30% of respondents reported they are willing to pay between $1 and $10 more per month for natural gas-based electricity produced without methane flaring or venting and 35% are willing to pay between $11 and $50 more. Although one-third of respondents said they were not interested in buying natural gas-based electricity produced without flaring or venting for their homes, a quarter of respondents said they could certainly afford to pay this increase and over 20% believed that the increase offers good value. 30% of Texans said they could certainly afford a $5 increase on their monthly electricity bill and another 30% said it offered good value. Nearly 70% of respondents were willing to pay more than $10 more per month on their electricity bill if the US were to set a price of $40 per ton of carbon dioxide. When it comes to carbon-neutral fuel, however, consumers were much less willing (and able?) to pay more. 27% said that a $1.70 increase per gallon would be too expensive for them and 30% said they were uninterested in buying a carbon-neutral fuel. Less than 10% believed the increase represented a good value for carbon-neutral fuel. Figures You may have heard that the world's temperature has been changing over the past 100 years, a phenomenon referred to as climate change. What is your personal opinion regarding whether or not this phenomenon is happening? Belief in climate change harm to self and future generations Agree or Disagree: Oil and gas companies should adopt carbon management technologies Agree or Disagree: Government should promote, incentivize, and subsidize carbon management technologies If the government implements a tax on carbon emissions, what would you think is the best way to spend that revenue? Which of the following terms have you heard or read about? A $5 Increase in electricity scenario: Texas and other states (reduced sample) UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies