Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Students New Coogs Provost Summer Read Program Provost Summer Read Program About Library Contact Information Email psrbook@uh.edu for questions regarding the Provost Summer Read Program. Suggest a book Have a recommendation for next year's book? Email us at psrbook@uh.edu Social Media SaveSave Provost Summer Read Program About the Program The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book that is read by all first-year students to strengthen a sense of community and provide a shared experience for your entering class. The accomplished and dedicated members of our academic community are eager to support you in achieving your dreams. You will find that your faculty have integrated the Provost Summer Read selection into several of your first-year courses. The author of this year's Provost Summer Read book is Trevor Noah, a South African comedian, political commentator, and host of “The Daily Show.” Noah’s story relates his experience growing up under the apartheid government of South Africa in the 1980s. This was during a time when being of mixed race was illegal in the country, and Noah is the son of a white Swiss father and black Xhosa tribe woman. He describes his upbringing as “growing up in the shadow of a giant.” His mother is the heroine of his story who teaches Noah how to navigate the confines of racism and violence in South Africa with grace and humor. Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood creates a space for students and faculty to examine issues of inequality and identity. The themes of this book are timely and relevant to current events in our own country. As new Cougars and future University of Houston graduates, I invite you to reflect on these themes as you read Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood. I look forward to the start of the fall semester and hope that you enjoy reading about Noah’s inspiring journey from hopelessness to award-winning comedian and international star. Overview The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book that is read over the summer by all first year students. After first year students arrive on campus to begin their fall semester of classes, they will participate in a meaningful dialogue with faculty and your peers, inside and out of the classroom. About the Author Trevor Noah is the host of the Emmy® and Peabody® Award-winning The Daily Show on Comedy Central. The Daily Show recently received two 2019 Primetime Emmy nominations, including Outstanding Variety Talk Series and Outstanding Interactive Program. Trevor has written, produced, and starred in 8 comedy specials, most recently including Son of Patricia on Netflix. Trevor's success has also spanned to sold out shows over 5 continents. Trevor is currently crossing North America on his first ever arena outing with the “Loud & Clear Tour 2019”. In April 2019, Trevor launched his new podcast series On Second Thought: The Trevor Noah Podcast exclusively on Luminary. Trevor Noah is the author of the #1 New York Times bestseller Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood and its young readers adaptation It’s Trevor Noah: Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood, which also debuted as a New York Times bestseller. The book received the Thurber Prize for American Humor and two NAACP Image Awards, one for Outstanding Literary Work by a Debut Author and another for Outstanding Literary Work in the Biography/Auto-Biography category. The Audible edition of Born a Crime, performed by Trevor, remains one of the top-selling, highest-rated, and most-commented-on Audible performances of all time. To date, Born a Crime has sold over 1 million copies across all formats. Trevor’s production company, Day Zero Productions, recently partnered with Viacom and has several projects in development, including the feature film adaptation of Born a Crime starring Academy Award winner Lupita Nyong’o, and a half-hour comedy with Roy Wood Jr. and Aaron McGruder at Comedy Central. In April 2018, Noah launched The Trevor Noah Foundation, a youth development initiative that enhances youth preparedness for higher education or entry into the workforce. Frequently Asked Questions What is the Provost Summer Read Program? The Provost Summer Read Program is built around a common book read by all first-year students during the summer. The final selection for the 2020 book is under review. How do I obtain a copy of the selected book? The Office of the Provost is pleased to provide first-year students with an electronic copy of the book which will be distributed during the summer. Students can buy additional or replacement copies at the University bookstore or other retail outlets. Electronic versions can also be purchased through popular bookselling websites. Who participates in the Provost Summer Read Program? All incoming freshmen will read the selected book and participate in a meaningful dialogue with faculty and your peers, inside and out of the classroom. Who should I contact if I have additional questions about the Provost Summer Read Program? We are eager to answer your questions and provide further information about this program. Please email one of our program specialists at psrbook@uh.edu for a prompt reply. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies