Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation COAST Alternative Transportation Program Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Houston METRO Vanpools through METRO Star Zipcar Carpooling Cycling Uber/Lyft Eligibility Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 In an effort to better serve UH’s ever-growing campus and community, Parking and Transportation Services offers eligible faculty, staff and students the opportunity to join COAST (Coogs on Alternative and Sustainable Transportation), an incentive program for individuals who carpool or utilize alternative and sustainable options to get to campus. COAST was launched in 2016 and aligns with a critical goal of the University's long-term growth plan that aims to minimize the number of vehicles traveling to and parking on campus, while also reducing Houston’s carbon footprint by relieving traffic congestion and improving the region’s air quality. Individuals who are interested in participating in COAST or learning more about it can reach out to the COAST team by: Setting an appointment to meet in person through the COAST Express online appointment booking system, or Sending an email to coast@uh.edu. Please note, COAST participants will be asked to sign a commuter pledge that states that members of COAST agree to not participate in any other UH PTS subsidized programs. Find out if you qualify to participate! The COAST program is located in the Parking and Transportation Services customer service office in University Lofts, Suite 101. Tips for Carpooling During Pandemic If possible, use larger vehicles to encourage social distancing. Stagger passengers by row and left to right to the extent possible. Wear a face covering. Disinfect frequently used surfaces in the vehicle (seats, seatbelts, armrests, door frame/handles) with an EPA- or CDC-approved disinfectant. Follow good hygiene practices. All carpoolers are encouraged to wash their hands before and after each carpool. Carry hand sanitizer. Do not eat in the vehicle. Turn on the fresh air setting. Do not recirculate the air. Carpoolers are encouraged to increase the airflow into the car during trips by opening the front passenger window and the diagonal rear window. Carpoolers are discouraged from using air conditioning during trips. Drivers and passengers should each handle their own personal items. . Alternative Transportation Options METRO PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION For individuals planning to ride METRO buses, the rail or both. CARPOOL Discounted permits and premium parking spaces are offered to those who commute to campus with three or more individuals in their vehicle. METRO STAR VANPOOL For individuals interested in joining or starting a vanpool group to commute to campus. ZIPCAR COAST offers two incentive packages for students, faculty and staff who prefer to use this car-sharing program. CYCLING COAST also offers a cycling incentive. In addition, the UH community can take advantage of the BCycle stations. UBER/LYFT Uber is one of the COAST incentives, and Lyft will soon be added as well. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies