Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Students New Coogs UHin4 UHin4 UHin4 Home Academic Maps Fixed Rate Tuition Plan Find an Advisor UHin4 Brochure Contact Us: For more information, email uhin4@uh.edu or call 713-743-0289. Social Media: UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Overview Four-Year Graduation Plan Join UHin4 Frequently Asked Questions Student Resources Remote Resources Overview The University of Houston is committed to creating an educational environment where students thrive. The University is equally dedicated to offering a world-class education without breaking the bank. The UHin4 program was created to simplify the process for students to earn both a high quality and affordable education. The UHin4 program is a partnership between the University and students to support graduation within 4 years. The program provides a comprehensive plan to help students navigate their 4-year college experience. Graduating in 4 years saves families time and money by helping students enter the workforce or begin their graduate studies as quickly as possible. Click to download the UHin4 Brochure. UHin4 Students have access to: Priority enrollment Academic maps Course availability Option to join the Fixed Rate Plan Who Can Join UHin4? All incoming freshmen in an eligible major enrolling at the University of Houston for the first time in Summer 2022 or Fall 2022. Transfer students with less than 30 transfer credits in an eligible major enrolling at the University of Houston for the first time in Summer 2022 or Fall 2022. Please note: Transfer students with over 30 transfer credit hours are not eligible for UHin4, but they may be eligible for the Fixed Rate Plan. Four-Year Graduation Plan Download the 2021 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan For Past Graduation Plans, Click Here The University of Houston is committed to creating an educational environment in which student success can be ensured. In support of this goal, we strive to provide students with tools and resources needed to facilitate degree completion. This graduation plan has been developed as a mechanism to help students identify and pursue clear paths for completing their undergraduate degree in a timely manner. Graduation within four academic years of initial fall enrollment at the University of Houston is ensured conditioned upon the satisfaction of student eligibility requirements as outlined below. Please note: The Four Year Graduation Plan provides students with access to a fixed rate tuition option. Students are not automatically placed into the fixed rate tuition. Students must choose either the fixed or variable rate. Student Eligibility and Responsibilities: To be eligible for the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan, the student must sign up through AccessUH by the published deadline, August 26, 2022, and satisfy the following conditions: Enroll at the University of Houston for the first time as a freshman during the summer 2022 or fall 2022 semester. Be admitted to an eligible major or as an undeclared student at the time of enrollment for the fall 2022 semester. Enrollment in non-degree, non-academic professional and public programs or other off-campus programs does not qualify. Enroll in at least 15 semester credit hours at the University of Houston in the fall 2022 semester. Developmental courses are not counted toward the 15 credit requirement. To remain eligible for the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan, the student must satisfy the following conditions: Successfully declare an eligible major by the first day of the fall 2023 semester if initially admitted to the University of Houston as an undeclared student. Successfully complete a minimum of one quarter of the required credits for the selected eligible degree program each academic year. Most University of Houston undergraduate degree programs consist of 120 total credit hours requiring successful completion of at least 15 applicable credit hours per semester or 30 credit hours per academic year for continued plan eligibility. A list of minimum semester or annual credit hours for eligible majors can be found at www.uh.edu/UHin4; specific degree requirements for each major can be found in the undergraduate catalog http://publications.uh.edu/index.php. Continuous enrollment each fall and spring during the term of the plan. Summer enrollment is not required but credits completed during the summer can be used toward the minimum credits required for the selected eligible major. Any other interruptions of attendance, with the exception of participation in a University sponsored cooperative employment/learning experience, may result in disqualification from the plan. Students participating in a University sponsored cooperative employment/learning experience are responsible for meeting with their academic advisor prior said participation to ensure involvement does not delay four year graduation. Remain in good academic standing each semester during the term of the four-year agreement. Meet applicable university, college and department academic requirements pertaining to course and degree progress. Resolve issues such as advising holds and financial holds that may delay timely enrollment. Meet with an academic advisor prior to the designated enrollment appointment each semester to discuss course selection and progress toward graduation. Enroll for each semester within 48 hours of the start of the designated enrollment appointment. Enroll in courses consistent with the four-year academic map for the selected eligible major. Enroll in additional minors, majors or certificates or change majors only if, at the time of change, the additional requirements can be met within the original four-year period. Monitor degree progress and act on advice provided by academic advisors to remain on track for four-year graduation. Submit annual applications for financial assistance in a timely manner, if applicable. Notify the University that graduation may be delayed due to course unavailability through needaclass@uh.edu during the enrollment period prior to the term when an unavailable course University of Houston Responsibilities As part of the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan, the University of Houston will: Provide a four-year academic map for eligible majors. Provide academic advising during the initial enrollment period during Orientation and before registration each subsequent semester to review course selections from the recommended four-year map provided by the academic department. Ensure the availability of courses to enable eligible students to complete the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan. Provide students with tools including an academic planner and online degree audit to assist with monitoring degree progress. Conduct an annual evaluation of degree progress, determining compliance with the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan and steps needed to continue or restore compliance if appropriate. If the student meets all the conditions of the 2022-2023 Freshman Four-year Graduation Plan but is unable to graduate with a bachelor’s degree in four consecutive academic years due to course unavailability, the appropriate department(s) and college(s) will first try to substitute an equivalent course(s) or an independent study assignment(s), or to waive the requirement(s) to be met by the unavailable course(s). If the Dean(s) of the college(s) determines that none of these adjustments is academically acceptable, the appropriate academic college(s) at the University of Houston will pay the tuition for the student to take the course(s) required for degree completion within the next academic year at the University of Houston. Join UHin4 If you are a new student admitted for summer 2022 or fall 2022, you are not yet able to join UHin4. You will be able to join in later May. An email will be sent to you notifying you when the registration portal is available to you. Follow the instructions below to access and apply for a plan. Instructions Freshman Four Year Grad Plan View Instructions as PDF Login to AccessUH . Click on the myUH (PeopleSoft) Login tab. Enter your PeopleSoft Login ID and password. Click on the Login to AccessUH button. Click on the myUH Self-Service icon. On the Homepage, click on the Advising tile. Select UHin4 Graduation Plan from the Advising menu. To view information about the Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan, click on the View Plan button. Make your selection and click on the Submit button. If you choose to decline or remain undecided, you will have another opportunity to make a selection prior to the submission deadline. Based on your selection, you will receive a confirmation message. The message below is for those that have opted to participate in the UHin4. To participate in the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan, click on the Fixed Rate Tuition button. Scroll down to view all information about the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan. Make your selection and click the Submit button. A confirmation message will appear at the bottom of the page based on your selection. Transfer Fixed Rate Tuition Plan View Instructions as PDF Transfer students with more than 30 hours cannot opt into Fixed Rate Tuition through the Four Year Grad Plan process; they are not eligible for the Four Year Grad Plan and therefore cannot access the Fixed Rate as part of that process. Please follow the steps below to opt into the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan: Log in to AccessUH . Click on the myUH (PeopleSoft) Login tab. Enter your PeopleSoft Login ID and password. Click on the Login to AccessUH button. Click on the myUH Self-Service icon. On the Homepage, click on the Student Financials tile. Select UHin4 Fixed Rate Tuition Plan from the left menu. If the transfer student with more than 30 hours is eligible, a message stating the requirements for the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan will show along with a yellow submit button. If the transfer student is not eligible, a message similar to the one below will show. Please contact Student Business Services at 713-743-1010. Frequently Asked Questions What is the difference between UHin4 and the Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option? Are they the same program? UHin4 and the Fixed Rate Plan are two separate programs managed by two different offices. UHin4 is managed by Retention and Graduation Initiatives while the Fixed Rate Plan is managed by Student Business Services. UHin4 has been developed as a mechanism to help students identify and pursue clear paths for completing their undergraduate degree in a timely manner. Graduation within four academic years of initial fall enrollment at the University of Houston is ensured conditioned upon the satisfaction of student requirements. The Fixed Rate Tuition Plan option is a budgeting tool to help students and parents accurately prepare their educational budget by establishing the same tuition rate for four years. If I am in UHin4, do I have to participate in the Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option? No, students in UHin4 have the option to choose from the variable tuition rate which is established by the State of Texas each year or the Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option. Students may not, however, participate in the Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option without being in UHin4. If I am in UHin4 and graduate in less than four years, what are the consequences? If UHin4 students graduate in less than four years, there is no expectation that they enroll in courses for four years. UHin4 has been created to assist students towards timely degree completion, not penalize for early degree completion. What if I am bringing in transfer/AP credits? Students with transfer/AP credits are eligible to opt in UHin4. Transfer/AP credits will give students a surplus of credits they can use to meet UHin4 requirements if the credits are applicable to their degree plan. All UHin4 students must enroll in 15 credit hours their first semester. Having transfer/AP credits does not exempt you from this requirement. How do I know if I am in an eligible major? A complete list of eligible majors and degree plans can be found among our UHin4 Academic Maps; non-eligible majors include degree plans that cannot be completed within 4 years. An example of a non-eligible degree plan is the 5 year Bachelor of Architecture. As a UHin4 participant, do I have to enroll in 15 hours every semester? Students must enroll in at least 15 semester credit hours their first fall semester. Developmental courses are not counted toward the 15 credit requirement. It is not required for students to enroll in 15 credit hours every semester after their first fall semester. However, students must complete a minimum of one quarter of their degree plan each academic year. Some students may enroll in less than 15 credit hours per semester and still remain eligible for UHin4 because they have AP/transfer credit, enroll in winter/summer courses, or enroll in additional courses (over 15 credit hours) a semester. If I opt in the UHin4, am I automatically considered for the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan? No, students must opt in both UHin4 and the Fixed Rate Tuition Plan to be considered for both of the programs. What is priority enrollment? Priority enrollment allows students to enroll in courses before open enrollment begins. Priority enrollment decreases the chances of courses being full. Student Resources Set up an appointment with your advisor Online GPA Calculator Tuition Calculator For Resources per Graduation Year, search below: Class of 2024: 2020 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2020 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option 2020 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option 2020 Academic Maps Class of 2023: 2019 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2019 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option 2019 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option 2019 Academic Maps Class of 2022: 2018 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2018 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2018 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2018 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2018 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2018 Academic Maps Class of 2021: 2017 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2017 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2017 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2017 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2017 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2017 Academic Maps Class of 2020: 2016 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2016 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2016 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2016 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2016 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2016 Academic Maps Class of 2019: 2015 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2015 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2015 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2015 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2015 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2015 Academic Maps Class of 2018: 2014 Freshman Four-Year Graduation Plan 2014 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2014 Freshman Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2014 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Texas Resident 2014 Transfer Student Fixed Four-Year Tuition Option: Non-Resident 2014 Academic Maps As the university transitions courses online, we want to share tips for you to take charge of your academic success. Learn remotely- for official university updates and information about online learning, click here. The list of resources below will be monitored. University Online Resources Online and Special Programs Online and Special Programs provides students with resources for online learning. Click here to learn more. Remote Learning Tools Resources for Smartphones and Mobile Devices How to set up Office 365 apps and email > How to get Microsoft Teams > How to use Zoom > How to use CamScanner > Resources for Desktops and Laptops How to access UH Blackboard > How to use Zoom > How to use Microsoft Teams > How to use Respondus Monitor > Online Learning Tips > Online Tutoring > Internet Access Connecting to the internet is vital for remote learning and can be accomplished via WiFi or by using your cellular network. Here are some resources to help keep you connected. Please note the University does not endorse or promote any specific vendor and this information is provided in case one of these options may be right for you. Need help or have questions? Go to Getting Help. How to improve your internet connection > How to learn on your smartphone > What is "Keep Americans Connected" > What are the major carriers offering > How to access Xfinity WiFi Free > Remote Learning Tips The University of Houston is committed to your academic journey, especially in these challenging times. Use these resources to help facilitate the transition to remote learning. How to adjust to online learning > How to access online tutoring > Online learning tips > Getting Help Learning remotely doesn't mean students are on their own. University offices and support services are available and ready to help. Students may find academic, technical and well-being support using the links below. Don't see what you need? Contact 713-743-3327 or via email at UHonline@uh.edu What is the latest update on COVID-19 > How to contact University IT > Remote Student Services Campus Recreation and Wellness Center The Campus Recreation and Wellness Center is committed to providing a variety of wellness services to help the Cougar community achieve their health and fitness goals. Follow Campus Recreation on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook (@uhrecreation) to participate in remote workouts, challenges, and live group fitness classes. You can view the rec sports activity schedule here. Click here to learn more. Counseling and Psychological Services(CAPS) CAPS offers services intended to meet students’ needs where they are. From traditional individual and couples therapy to workshops, group therapy, and single-session therapy(SST). CAPS is assisting students remotely. They will contact students who have an existing appointment to offer various options. Click here to learn more. Latest Updates from UH CAPS as of March 24, 2020 In compliance with the, “Stay Home Work Safe” order, CAPS will operate remotely via Teletherapy (phone and video) starting at 8 am, March 25. During business hours, you may contact 713.743.5454 for assistance during normal business hours procedures. After business hours, you may contact 713.743.5454 and follow the prompts to leave a message or to be connected to the after-hours clinician. Center for Student with DisABILITIES The Center for Students with DisABILITIES equalizes our students’ learning, discovery, and engagement by fostering self-advocacy, inclusion, and success. The Center for Students with DisABILITIES is assisting students remotely. If you need Extended testing time: You should inform instructors and they will extend your time. If you have any questions about this or would like any other assistance with accommodations, you may contact a CSD counselor. If you need to speak with a CSD Counselor: Cheryl Spadaccia, Director (713) 743-5395 camoruso@uh.edu Crystle McDonald, Assistant Director (713) 743-5460 crmcdona@central.uh.edu Ciara Evans, Counselor (713) 743-0927 cevans3@central.uh.edu If you need to speak to someone about Interpreting/Captioning services: Interpreting/Captioning Services Team: DHHCoougs@central.uh.edu For general questions, email UHCSD@central.uh.edu or call (713) 743-5400. Click here to visit their website and learn how to register with CSD and more. International Student and Scholar Services Office The International Student and Scholar Services Office works with UH students and scholars from outside the U.S. to answer questions, streamline paperwork, explain financial information and more. The International Student and Scholar Services Office is remotely assisting students by telephone and email. Mailing documents to their office is no longer be an option, since UH will be restricted from handling on-campus mail. If you have already sent documents in the mail, please email your documents again to isssohlp@central.uh.edu. Please submit documents under 5mb if possible. It is best to use a phone app such as Cam Scanner to submit documents in PDF format. Click here to visit their website and learn more. LGBTQ Resource Center The LGBTQ Resource Center cultivates safe spaces on campus and within the Center’s programs, empowering LGBTQ students to develop their authentic identity, and become proud, successful, engaged members of the UH community. The LGBTQ Resource Center is providing virtual activities and programs. They are available to assist you Monday through Friday, 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM through email: lgbtq@uh.edu and phone: 832-842-6191. Click here to view their virtual activities and programs. Visit their website here to learn more. Libraries The University of Houston Libraries serves University of Houston students, faculty, staff and the scholarly community. Click here to visit their website learn how UH libraries are assisting students remotely. The website also includes information on how to access library materials, returning and delivery items, etc. You can contact UH libraries here. Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid provides financial assistance to students through grants, loans, scholarships, and employment. The Welcome Center Financial Aid staff is working remotely until further notice and has the call center open to assist students during normal business hours. You can reach a financial aid representative at (713)-743-1010, option 5 or at sfa@central.uh.edu. When calling or emailing, be sure to include or have your UH ID ready. For information on how to upload requested documents to your To Do List items, please visit uh.edu/sfaupload. Click here to visit their website and learn more. Student Health Center The Student Health Center offers non-emergent, outpatient medical care as well as several specialty clinics. In compliance with the, "Stay Home, Work Safe" order, the Student Health Center has suspended all in-person services and will operate remotely via Telehealth from March 25, 2020 through April 3, 2020. If you are experiencing a medical emergency, call 911 or proceed to the nearest emergency department. During business hours, you may contact the Student Health Center at 713-743-5151 and they will assist you per normal business hours procedures. TeleHealth TelePsychiatry Campus Pharmacy Contact by Secure Messaging or Phone Alternative Options Student Health Insurance If you have symptoms and questions, this tool from Harris County will help determine whether you may need further assessment or need to be tested for COVID-19, and direct you to testing sites. University Career Services(UCS) UCS is a full-service career center offering students and UH alumni resources and assistance in the formulation and implementation of their career plans. UCS is virtually assisting students with career preparation. Click here to view the UCS event calendar and details. Academic Resources LAUNCH LAUNCH lets student success take off, with Peer Tutoring for over 100 separate courses, Success Workshops, and Individual Academic Counseling. LAUNCH can help students prepare for exams and reach academic success. LAUNCH is offering online/remote services such as tutoring and academic counseling. Seeking a LAUNCH tutor? Please send an email with your name, ID, course, and professor name to LAUNCH@central.uh.edu.  They will connect you to the virtual tutoring site from the hours of 9-5 Monday through Friday.  Please make sure you have downloaded Microsoft Office Teams (under Access UH) before sending your email. Seeking a LAUNCH academic counselor? In the Navigate Student app, click the purple Appointments icon, select Schedule an Appointment, Support Services, and LAUNCH.  Follow the remaining prompts to make your appointment in the LAUNCH "Online/Remote Appointments" location. They will follow up with you and create a virtual appointment. Please make sure you have downloaded Microsoft Office Teams (under Access UH) before sending your email. Seeking a LAUNCH Success Workshop? Students who signed up online will be contacted via email.  If you are interested in a future workshop, please email lheidel@uh.edu. Writing Center The Writing Center offers one-on-one consultations in which trained Writing Consultants may assist students with various types of writing. The Writing Center is currently offering services to students, faculty, and staff in a fully online format. Click here to visit their website and select "Schedule Now" to sign up for an online, individual consultation, or contact us at (713) 743-3016 or at writingcenter@uh.edu if you need assistance. Looking for information about additional campus resources not listed? Email us at uhin4@uh.edu. Tips to Prepare for Online Courses Tips to Prepare for Online Courses Time management: Determine the amount of the time required for each course and plan to accommodate the workload. Review materials 20 minutes before and after class for greater retention and block out time in your schedule to study. Click here to learn about how to effectively plan your time. Identify a space to have class: Choose an environment that will help you learn. For example: If possible, you may want to study in a quiet space in your house where you can focus. We know this might be challenging, do the best you can. If you have access to headphones, consider using them. Most are noise cancelling and it will help you zero in even more.  Ensure you have access to technology/materials required for your online courses: Review communication sent from your professors to find what you need to complete coursework. Familiarize yourself with educational technology: Get familiar with the technology: There may be a little bit of a learning curve, but we will all get the hang of it. There are resources that can help you navigate technology you may not be familiar with. If you are not sure what technology skills you need for classes, click here to view technological considerations for online classes. The pdf also includes qualities of successful distance education students. Establish expectations: Although you will learn the same content online, you will find that factors such as communication will differ. For example: If you have a question about course material, you may not receive immediate feedback in the way you would in a face to face course. However, this is not a barrier to success. Study in a way that works best for you: A benefit of online courses is that you have a flexible schedule. You can choose when to study based on your preference and/or responsibilities. How to Engage in Online Courses Motivation: Click here to learn how you can use motivational strategies while taking online courses. Self-directed learning: Be aware of your learning needs, set S.M.A.R.T goals and reflect on the learning strategies that work best for you. Participate: Find ways to actively participate in class and interact with your classmates and your professor. Ask questions through the class chat function, by virtually raising your hand, or speaking into the microphone. Engage in learning conversations with your professor and classmates. How to Engage in Online Courses Create a community: Connect with one or two people in your class and form a study group for accountability. You can also communicate with classmates via discussion boards, email, GroupMe and Navigate. Do not procrastinate: Stay on top of your assignments, click here to learn about procrastination causes and cures. Take notes: It may be challenging to take notes while looking at class content but note-taking is essential in helping you learn and focus in class. Engage in virtual communication with your professors: Ask your professor questions about course material and ask for guidance when needed. Dedicate time to study each week: Plan your schedule and set a time to study every week. Stay on top of your study skills. Academic resources are available online, including tutoring. Click here to view handouts on time management, note-taking, college success and more. Utilize academic resources: The University of Houston is continuing to support academic learning and student success remotely. Click here to learn about how various resources on campus are providing services remotely. Please email us at uhin4@uh.edu if you have any questions University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies