Discover & Connect - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Discover & Connect Discover & Connect WELCOME TO THE POWERHOUSE What exactly does it mean to be a University of Houston Cougar? It means being a part of one of the most diverse student bodies in the country. It means joining a group of forward-thinkers that have one goal in mind: your success. It means being a part of a 200,000+ strong family that includes powerful politicians, CEOs, innovators, disruptors, and more than a few astronauts. Check out our Admissions Viewbook for an in-depth look into the University of Houston, including information on applying, majors, cost, and more. Download the Admissions Viewbook > Our Value If you’re looking for a place to make your mark, look no further. 45k+ students 130+ countries represented in student body 25+ research centers Top 50 Performers for Social Mobility "Best Value School" 2021 America's Top Colleges 2019 "Best 386 Colleges" "Colleges That Create Futures" "#1 Top School for Entrepreneurship Studies" 2021 Our City Houston is many things, but it’s one thing above all else: a city that always looks forward, never back. Here are some things you should know about the city you’ll soon call home. 4th largest city in the U.S. Largest medical center in the world 24 Fortune 500 company headquarters 145 languages spoken in Houston Our Programs What’s your passion? Whatever your answer, we want to give you the tools and knowledge to fuel it, shape it, and wield it into something that can change the world. And we have over 110 degree options and 10 undergraduate academic colleges to help you do it. Learn more about them here. 16 academic colleges 110+ undergraduate majors 23:1 student-to-faculty ratio 4 professional schools 200 graduate programs Our Campus The epicenter of Coog life, where cultures converge and lifelong friends meet. We promise you’ll never be bored—we have everything from restaurants to art exhibits to celebrity lectures to athletic events. 550+ student organizations 35+ fraternities and sororities 20+ outdoor adventure clubs 15+ campus ministries 100+ multi-cultural organizations 30+ intramural teams Our Opportunities Our degrees aren’t just degrees. They’re the key to your future, your connection to a family of alumni and peers who want to see you go places, and a gateway to a lifetime of opportunities. $57,500 median starting salary for UH grads with bachelor’s degree 350+ student businesses launched at UH 4,000+ companies worldwide are led by UH alumni 295,000+ alumni 65% of UH alumni live in Houston University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies