Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Connections Newsletter UH Energy About UH Energy Energy Events Research Contact Us Connections Newsletter Energy News Energy Events Archive SED Program EDAC Program ESG Program Micro-credentialing Hub CCUS Executive Education TribFest Hydrogen Course Redirect ECO Bottle Drive EV Toolkit Connections Newsletter The UH Energy Connections Newsletter features and recognizes faculty and students for notable achievements in research, education, innovation and outreach. To receive the Connections Newsletter please JOIN OUR MAILING LIST 2022 March 2022 ▼ Features - March 2022 Leading Energy: University of Houston Creates Energy Transition Institute with $10 Million Commitment from Shell By Chris Stipes A $10 million gift from Shell USA, Inc. and Shell Global Solutions (US) Inc. has enabled the University of Houston (UH) to establish the Energy Transition Institute focused on the production and use of reliable, affordable and cleaner energy for all through a just and equity-driven pathway. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Researchers Develop 3D Imaging Technique to Understand How Dendrites Form in Batteries By Karn Dhingra As the world lessens its dependence on fossil fuels, industries and manufacturers are turning to lithium-ion batteries to power the machines that make modern life possible. READ FULL ARTICLE Tracking Disruptions: Bauer Researcher Uses Big Data to Track Oil Refinery Disruptions By Julie Bonnin New research from the C.T. Bauer College of Business uses big data to track operational disruptions at U.S. oil refineries that cause significant reductions in production capacity. READ FULL ARTICLE Fact-check: With time and money, US can replace banned Russian imports with domestic oil By Madison Czopek As Russia’s aggression toward Ukraine has intensified, so has criticism of the U.S. buying Russian oil. On March 8, President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian energy imports. READ FULL ARTICLE UH SCLT, Houston Maritime Center Honors Ernest Moniz With Maritime Education in Energy Transition Award during CERAWeek By Margaret Kidd and Ed Bailey The University of Houston’s Supply Chain and Logistics Technology (SCLT) program, alongside the Houston Maritime Center (HMC) honored former Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz for his contributions within the energy transition. READ FULL ARTICLE February 2022 ▼ Features - February 2022 UH Energy and the Energy Coalition Begin Certificate in Energy Leadership By McKenzie Ganders The University of Houston maintains its goal to prepare students for professions in energy through learning crucial skills needed for success in the marketplace. With this in mind, UH Energy and the Energy Coalition are pleased to announce the Certificate in Energy Leadership. This four-part webinar opportunity provides insights to critical skills such as team-building and leadership, and is aimed toward those currently in and aspiring to work within the energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE January 2022 ▼ Features - January 2022 UH Energy White Paper Series: Oil Pipelines - Due Diligence Considerations By Jim Crump in Collaboration with UH Energy The U.S. crude oil pipeline network, a key component of energy infrastructure, has prompted vigorous public debate. READ WHITE PAPER UH Energy's Certificate in Energy Leadership By UH Energy UH Energy and the Energy Coalition at the University of Houston are proud to announce the Certificate in Energy Leadership. This program is based on a four-part webinar series, and is designed to prepare UH students for careers in energy, and for roles as future decision-makers within industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Paper Finds 46 Cullen College Professors Among Most-Cited By Stephen Greenwell According to an updated paper from researchers at Stanford University, 46 past and present professors affiliated with the Cullen College of Engineering are among the Top 2 percent of cited research papers in the world. READ FULL ARTICLE Carbon ships? Path to net-zero may take an overlooked approach by sea By Ramanan Krishnamoorti and Aparajita Datta It’s no secret that we urgently need to address climate change. The IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report called for net-zero carbon dioxide emissions from all human sources to stabilize the global climate. READ FULL ARTICLE ERCOT: Power generators 'ready' if another freeze sweeps Texas By Shelby Webb Officials with Texas' electric grid manager say they have inspected more than 300 electric generation units -- which make up about 85 percent of the capacity that was knocked offline during the February freeze -- as part of their efforts to have the state better prepared for freezing weather. READ FULL ARTICLE 2021 December 2021 ▼ Features - December 2021 Down to the Wire: The 'Super Cool Conductor' Developed at UH Advances in Prestigious DOE Competition By Karn Dhingra As the world embarks upon the energy transition, improved electrification will be key to powering an efficient low carbon global economy. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Researchers Among World’s Most Highly Cited Three University of Houston researchers have been recognized as the “world’s most influential researchers” for ranking in the top 0.1% of highly cited papers. The recognition comes from Clarivate, a global leader in providing insights and analytics to accelerate the pace of innovation. READ FULL ARTICLE Petroleum Engineering Recognized As No. 6 Program By Stephen Greenwell The Petroleum Engineering Department at the Cullen College of Engineering has again been recognized for productive graduates and return on investment from its degrees, as it was named No. 6 on Steppingblocks' 2022 list of universities for petroleum engineers. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Energy offers companion resources for the 23rd Annual World Petroleum Congress By UH Energy Returning to the United States for the first time in 30 years, the World Petroleum Congress is the oil and gas industry's most prestigious event. VIEW RESOURCES Companion Resource: WPC Promotes Shaping the Energy Future and Houston Leading the Energy Transition By UH Energy Companion Resource: Learn more about the University of Houston's multi-faceted, strategically-focused efforts toward addressing carbon management within the realm of energy. VIEW RESOURCES November 2021 ▼ Features - November 2021 An interview with Neha Bhat, the new Energy Coalition Chair By McKenzie Ganders With the new school year off and running, the Energy Coalition (EC) is ushering in a new era of leadership. Among that board is the sixth chair to serve in that capacity since the group’s inception, Neha Bhat – a senior simultaneously working towards her bachelor’s and master’s in accounting. READ FULL ARTICLE CCME completes Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage Executive Education Course By: McKenzie Ganders The Center for Carbon Management in Energy at the University of Houston (CCME) wrapped up a successful executive education course in Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS), setting the stage for future learning chances for energy industry professionals next spring. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Energy 2020 - 2021 Year-End Report By UH Energy The University of Houston’s vision is to be recognized as The Energy University – the leader for energy related education, research and innovation. VIEW THE REPORT Houston University's Falcon in Pipeline Leak Solution By Saab Seaeye Called SmartTouch, the solution involves integrating innovative robotic manipulator controls into the Falcon that provide multiple stress wave sensors for touch-based inspection of bolted joints, along with the latest structural health monitoring and inspection technologies. Video cameras and scanning sonars are also integrated into the system. READ FULL ARTICLE Big Oil Responds To Congressional Scapegoating With Stellar Earning Results By Ed Hirs Congress has laid the blame for carbon emissions at the feet of Big Oil, who continues to post strong financial results amid a global energy crisis. It's clear that voters -- and industry -- want decisive action on climate change, but that action comes with a cost to consumers. In his latest Forbes blog entry, UH Energy Fellow Ed Hirs details how a hard look in the mirror on Capitol Hill can determine who's really at fault, and why it's best to act now instead of paying later. READ FULL ARTICLE October 2021 ▼ Features - October 2021 Impact of Winter Storm Uri on Texas' Petrochemical Industry By Ramanan Krishnamoorti, Victor H. Edwards, Thomas E. Rehm, Julie D. White During Feb. 14-18, 2021, much of Texas was slammed by Winter Storm Uri, which led to the general failure of electricity and natural gas systems. Texas' independent electric grid managed by ERCOT was four and a half minutes away from complete collapse, which could have crippled the state for several weeks, perhaps many months. READ FULL ARTICLE Kulkarni, Neffati, Purdue Researchers Describe New Methods For Intermetallic Strength By: Stephen Greenwell Nobody would want to drive a car made of a very strong material that shatters in a collision, so the design of materials with high strength as well as high ductility – or less brittleness – has been the holy grail of materials science since the beginning of mankind. READ FULL ARTICLE NSF Grant Funds Research By Pan, Fu Into Wireless For AI By Stephen Greenwell A pair of researchers from the Cullen College of Engineering have received $500,000 from the National Science Foundation to lower energy consumption and service delay, two key components of federated learning's practical implementation in wireless networks. READ FULL ARTICLE EVolve Houston YouTube Series: How Does EV Technology Work? By EVolve Houston UH Energy has partnered with Evolve Houston to become thought leaders in the realm of electrification of society’s transportation needs. Through monthly webinars, we educate our audience through discussion of the opportunities, threats, latest trends, misconceptions and more regarding EVs. Click here to tap into the conversation. VIEW YOUTUBE SERIES UH Energy TribFest Panel: A Sustainable Energy Transition By UH Energy The energy transition means that changes abound, and they must ensure affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy. During the Texas Tribune’s TribFest, UH Energy held a special edition of the UH Critical Issues in Energy Symposium, A Sustainable Energy Transition, where we will examined what a sustainable energy transition required. Click here to check out this pivotal dialogue on one of the most important issues facing our society. LEARN MORE September 2021 ▼ Features - September 2021 Carbon Capture Utilization Storage: Executive Education Opportunity By McKenzie Ganders The University of Houston is a key player in preparing the future workforce for the energy industry. New skills, knowledge, insights and capabilities are required to be successful in the new energy world that is in transition to a lower carbon future. Making it happen and doing it sustainably is the key. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Elizabeth Killinger By: McKenzie Ganders The University of Houston prides itself on being a powerhouse of innovation, and Elizabeth Killinger is applying that same mindset to her walk of life. Since graduating from UH in 1991, Killinger has turned her attention to being a leader in the quest of reforming the energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Bauer Dean Awarded National Science Foundation Grant By Julie Bonnin C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, Texas A&M University, and Temple University are partnering in this research, titled “Advanced Learning for Energy Risk Tracking,” (ALERT), which is designed to prevent and mitigate costly and potentially devastating electricity outages such as the 2021 winter storm that caused billions of dollars of damage and the loss of over 100 lives in Texas. READ FULL ARTICLE The Hydrogen Economy: Capstone Project Winners By Alan Rossiter We recently completed the first cohort of our new micro-credential program, The Hydrogen Economy. The culmination of the program was the capstone project. This involved developing and defending a business plan for start-up and commercialization of a clean hydrogen venture, demonstrating knowledge of the principles taught in the course. SEE THE WINNERS August 2021 ▼ Features - August 2021 Geology Graduate Wins 2021 AAPG Jules Braunstein Memorial Award By Rebeca Trejo The American Association of Petroleum Geologists awarded the University of Houston’s Michael Fonseca, Lori Hathon and Tom Lapen the Jules Braunstein Memorial Award. It recognizes the best poster session paper presented at the association’s Annual Convention and Exhibition the previous year. READ FULL ARTICLE AMPing Up Delivery of Superconducting Wires By: Laurie Fickman Superconductivity, where electrical resistance vanishes, remains a technology that both powers science and mystifies scientists. It charges MRI scanners, enables new drug discovery through advanced spectroscopy machines, and is used to create the kind of powerful magnets that help smash atoms as scientists work to uncover how the universe is made and how it works. READ FULL ARTICLE Understanding the ERCOT Grid Failure By Cory Thaxton Winter Storm Uri caused chaos all over the state of Texas. Houston, and its surrounding cities, saw the worst of it. Hundreds of people lost their lives and there are billions of dollars worth of damages. Still, neither Houston nor the state knows the full impact that the February 2021 winter storm and the resulting grid failure will have on the economy. READ FULL ARTICLE How Power Flows To Your Houston Home — And Why It Failed To Do So During The Winter Freeze By Kyra Buckley The deadly winter freeze gave many Texans a glimpse into how complicated – and in many ways, vulnerable – the state’s electricity system is. Half a year later many Houstonians are still figuring out what parts of that system actually failed. READ FULL ARTICLE July 2021 ▼ Features - July 2021 Lars Grabow - Engineering Dynamic Solutions By Nicole Johnson Distinguished researcher and chemistry professor Lars Grabow is about to change the game. Having received significant financial backing from the U.S. Department of Energy, Grabow is working to revolutionize processes within the carbon fiber industry, leading to more cost-effective and safer products for us. Here’s how. READ FULL ARTICLE Huang's Industrial Expertise Joining Cullen College Of Engineering By: Stephen Greenwell With decades of expertise in aviation industry and electrification, Dr. Hao Huang joins the Cullen College of Engineering as its newest faculty member. Huang is tasked with preparing the next generation of UH Engineering students for the next revolution in aerospace – a challenge he’s more than ready to undertake. READ FULL ARTICLE John Hofmeister: A Visionary Who Called For A More Inclusive, Less Insular Energy Industry By Loren Steffy A pragmatic and unique thinker, the late John Hofmeister became one of Houston’s top energy and business leaders thanks to unconventional yet thought-provoking insight into the industry. Here, UH Energy Scholar Loren Steffy pens a heartfelt recollection of Hofmeister’s impact on the energy world as an executive and visionary. READ FULL ARTICLE Subsurface Geophysics is Key to Geological Carbon Dioxide Storage By Nicole Johnson The date is set. According to not only the Paris Agreement but also with support from the city of Houston, 196 participating countries – including the United States, must meet a net-zero carbon emission goal by 2050. With Houston already the energy capital of the world, it is no surprise that the city is positioning itself as the up-and-coming carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) hub of the U.S. Reaching the target means not only pushing green energy, but also supporting more energy efficient, sustainable and environmentally conscious fossil fuels. READ FULL ARTICLE Hobby School Accolades By The Hobby School of Public Affairs Center for Public Policy Director Pablo Pinto, Promoted to Full Professor. Pinto started with the Hobby School in 2017 after serving as associate professor in the UH Department of Political Science since 2014, and as associate professor of political science at Columbia University in New York City, which he joined in 2004. Senior Director Renée Cross receives League of Women Voters-Houston Award. Her contributions to Texas and Houston politics, civic engagement, public service and mentoring the next generation of community leaders are the Hobby School’s Renée Cross’ lasting legacy. READ FULL ARTICLE June | July 2021 ▼ Features - June | July 2021 Reliability and the Texas Power Grid in the Aftermath of Winter Storm Uri By Gail Buttorff, Ramanan Krishnamoorti, Pablo M. Pinto, Sunny M.C. Wong During the third week of February, Winter Storm Uri brought freezing temperatures to the state of Texas. Unprepared and unequipped to handle the extreme weather, power generators failed to meet the higher demand from Texans trying to keep warm. READ FULL ARTICLE Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the US Transcended Partisanship? By Gail Buttorff, Francisco Cantu, Ramanan Krishnamoorti, Pablo M. Pinto As scientific evidence quantified the increased rate of climate change in the last 50 years, this poignant topic pushed to the forefront of political policy and subsequently emerged as a source of partisan dissent in the U.S. Original questions pertaining to the validity of climate change are no longer under scrutiny, but instead transitioned to what can be done to mitigate climate change. READ FULL ARTICLE Looking Objectively at Energy Solutions By Sarah F. Hill The Texas grid outage of 2021 prompted many difficult questions. Why did Texas lose power, and why for so long? Were we not prepared? Were greedy market participants trying to make money in the wake of unfortunate circumstances? And perhaps most importantly, would this happen again? Looming over these uncertain times is the question of whether or not we can transition to a future with a smaller carbon footprint. Our region is positioned as a leader in this quest for cleaner, more efficient and environmental-friendly energy going forward. READ FULL ARTICLE 2021 Energy Career Fair By UH Energy, The Energy Coalition and University Career Services Whether you’re a decision maker or one of the top up-and-coming talents within the Energy Capital of the World, the UH Energy Career Fair is your chance to make your mark on the future. A collaboration between UH Energy, the UH Energy Coalition and University Career Services, this event brings together the movers and shakers of the energy industry – fossil fuels, nuclear power, non-profits or anything in between – with some of the Powerhouse’s sharpest young minds to further grow the industry. With a wide variety of participating organizations, students from all majors are invited to attend the career fair to network toward exceptional opportunities within the energy sector. Register today! MORE INFORMATION February 2021 ▼ Features - February 2021 Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage – Lynchpin for the Energy Transition White Paper By UH Energy in collaboration with the Gutierrez Energy Management Institute and the Center for Houston’s Future The energy transition will require a number of new technologies, none more critical than the broad commercial deployment of carbon capture, utilization and storage, or CCUS. The ability to decarbonize the existing energy value chains in the oil and gas, petrochemical and electric power industries is essential both to immediately impact emissions and to create a commercially sound pathway to a sustainable energy future. READ WHITE PAPER Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Clay Neff By Janet Miranda Clay Neff, president of Chevron Middle East, Africa, South America Exploration and Production, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his start in the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board and his advice for students who want to join the energy sector during difficult times for the industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Forbes Blog - Renewables Debate Is Just A Sideshow Amid Epic Texas Power Failure By Emily Pickrell Just like there are no atheists in foxholes, it is doubtful that many Texans pride themselves on anti-federalism in a house that’s lost heat and electricity when it’s 4 degrees outside. Rick Perry, former U.S. energy secretary and ex-governor of Texas, prides himself on exactly that. READ FULL ARTICLE New Catalyst Moves Seawater Desalination, Hydrogen Production Closer to Commercialization By Jeannie Kever Seawater makes up about 96% of all water on earth, making it a tempting resource to meet the world’s growing need for clean drinking water and carbon-free energy. And scientists already have the technical ability to both desalinate seawater and split it to produce hydrogen, which is in demand as a source of clean energy. READ FULL ARTICLE January 2021 ▼ Features - January 2021 Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Keith Mosing By Janet Miranda Keith Mosing is currently the Chairman, CEO and President of the Mosing Group as well the owner and CEO of Katy Nissan. Mosing Group previously owned Western Airways, Inc. where he was the Chairman and CEO. READ FULL ARTICLE University of Houston Receives Licensing Executive Society’s 2020 Deal of Distinction in CEEM Sector By Rebeca Trejo The University of Houston’s Low Frequency Seismic Technologies Consortium was awarded the Licensing Executive Society’s 2020 Deal of Distinction in the Chemicals, Energy, Environment, and Materials Sector. READ FULL ARTICLE Forbes Blog - Oil And Gas Industry Must Get Serious About Climate Change To Compete For Millennial And Gen Z Workforce By Emily Pickrell Younger Americans are the most adamant about their belief that climate change is real. More than 87% of those between 30 and 45 acknowledge that climate change is happening, according to a recent survey conducted by the University of Houston, almost 10 points higher than for people who are 45 and older. READ FULL ARTICLE Forbes Blog - Carbon Management In 2021 By Emily Pickrell If 2020 marked the year that the U.S. formally left the Paris Agreement, 2021 could well be the year it starts to get serious about climate action. The time is ripe: an international pandemic has raised awareness about our independency, while incoming President Joe Biden has called climate change action a top priority. READ FULL ARTICLE 2020 December 2020 ▼ Features - December 2020 Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Greg Leveille By Janet Miranda Greg Leveille, chief technology officer for ConocoPhillips, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his start in the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board and his advice for students. READ FULL ARTICLE Subsea Systems Institute Receives $9.5 Million for Research, Economic Development By Jeannie Kever A national research center focused on offshore energy has received $9.5 million for workforce training and to develop new technologies and practices that can improve the safety and sustainability of the offshore industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Discoveries Highlight New Possibilities for Magnesium Batteries By Jeannie Kever Magnesium batteries have long been considered a potentially safer and less expensive alternative to lithium-ion batteries, but previous versions have been severely limited in the power they delivered. READ FULL ARTICLE October 2020 ▼ Features - October 2020 Energy Advisory Board Spotlight - Andy Krieger By Janet Miranda Andy Krieger, senior vice president of wells for BP Global Wells Organization, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his start in the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board and his advice for students. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Law and Center for Carbon Management in Energy Create Summer Fellowship Program By Janet Miranda A group of six law students and recent UH graduates participated in a six-week summer fellowship, where they researched various topics in energy law for the Center for Carbon Management in Energy. READ FULL ARTICLE Professor of Subsea Engineering Recognized as Distinguished Member by Society of Petroleum Engineers By Janet Miranda The Society of Petroleum Engineers recently named Phaneendra Kondapi, a professor of subsea engineering, assistant dean of engineering programs at UH Katy and former director of Subsea Engineering, as a Distinguished Member. The accolade is the second-highest distinction offered by the society, recognizing members who have made significant contributions to the industry. READ FULL ARTICLE UH researchers asked to provide second opinion to Brazilian petrochemical company Braskem By Janet Miranda A team of University of Houston geophysicists analyzed subsidence and seismic activity in and around the Brazilian coastal city of Maceió as part of a project for Braskem, a major petrochemical company in the South American nation. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Announces Funding for Carbon Management Projects By Janet Miranda The Center for Carbon Management in Energy at the University of Houston has awarded $275,000 in research funding for projects focused on carbon management and the energy transition. The projects cover a range of projects, from converting carbon to fuel and other useful products to a proposed new wireless monitoring system for carbon capture storage. READ FULL ARTICLE August 2020 ▼ Features - August 2020 Energy Coalition Spotlight: Chair Makpal Sariyeva Highlights Initiatives for New Academic Year By Janet Miranda The Energy Coalition welcomes a new board of student directors. Chair Makpal Sariyeva shares her vision for the new academic year amid COVID-19 and other industry challenges. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Kevin Mitchell By Janet Miranda Kevin Mitchell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Phillips 66, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his start in the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board and his advice for students who want to join the energy sector during difficult times for the industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Summer Research Opportunities for Students Promise Great Impact for Low Carbon Energy By Janet Miranda UH Energy and C.T. Bauer College of Business along with the Center for Houston’s Future has teamed up to create new research initiatives for students this summer amid the COVID-19 internship cancellations. The new low carbon energy research aims to provide a framework for the necessary infrastructure for implementation. READ FULL ARTICLE July 2020 ▼ Features - July 2020 UH Society of Petroleum Engineers Wins Student Chapter Excellence Award By Janet Miranda The University of Houston chapter of the Society of Petroleum Engineers won its first Student Chapter Excellence Award for the 2019-20 academic year. The 34-member board coordinated and planned an ambitious student involvement strategy, which yielded 86 successful events and six awards. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Alex Juden By Janet Miranda Alex Juden, secretary and general counsel at Schlumberger Limited, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his start in the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board and his advice for students who want to join the energy sector during difficult times for the industry. READ FULL ARTICLE A Roadmap to Better Multivalent Batteries By Jeannie Kever Lithium-ion batteries are recognized for their high energy density in everything from mobile phones to laptop computers and electric vehicles, but as the need for grid-scale energy storage and other applications becomes more pressing, researchers have sought less expensive and more readily available alternatives to lithium. READ FULL ARTICLE June 2020 ▼ Features - June 2020 Return to Work at the Office? Energy Workers Say 'Not So Fast' By Jeannie Kever As Texas and other states begin to reopen retail and other businesses, workers who have been working from home – for some, for seven weeks or longer – face the prospect of returning to corporate offices and business workplaces. A study of the energy workforce released Thursday found that more than 70% of workers prefer to continue working remotely. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Joseph Mills By Janet Miranda Joseph Mills, president and chief executive officer of Samson Resources II, LLC, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about the outlook for the energy industry, his role on the Energy Advisory Board, and his tips for students who want to join the energy sector during the downturn. READ FULL ARTICLE Petroleum Engineering Alum Named As One Of TWA's Energy Influencers By Stephen Greenwell Dr. Pushpesh Sharma, a May 2019 graduate from the University of Houston's chemical engineering and petroleum engineering programs, has earned distinction for his work as a doctoral student and with the start-up Inveniam Asset Management by being named one of The Way Ahead's 2020 Energy Influencers. READ FULL ARTICLE New Material, Modeling Methods Promise Advances in Energy Storage By Jeannie Kever The explosion of mobile electronic devices, electric vehicles, drones and other technologies have driven demand for new lightweight materials that can provide the power to operate them. Researchers from the University of Houston and Texas A&M University have reported a structural supercapacitor electrode made from reduced graphene oxide and aramid nanofiber that is stronger and more versatile than conventional carbon-based electrodes. READ FULL ARTICLE TC Energy Summer Scholars Academy Empowers Incoming UH STEM Majors By Kathy Major The University of Houston is proud to announce a partnership between TC Energy and the University of Houston’s College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM) to help high school students interested in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) majors prepare for the transition to college. READ FULL ARTICLE May 2020 ▼ Features - May 2020 UH Energy offers new Engineering Ethics 2020 Online Course By Alan Rossiter The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) hosted a daylong workshop on Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance, known as ESG in the energy sector. The workshop featured ESG energy experts, panels and workshop case studies exploring how to navigate this new arena. LEARN MORE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight: Scott Nyquist By Janet Miranda Scott Nyquist, Senior Partner at McKinsey & Company, sat down with UH Energy for a conversation about his career in the energy world, his role on the Energy Advisory Board, and the future of the energy industry for students interested in pursuing an energy career. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Engineer Honored For Work in Crystal Engineering By Jeannie Kever An engineer from the University of Houston has received the state’s top honor in engineering for his pioneering discoveries about how crystals form and how they can be dissolved. Jeffrey Rimer, Abraham E. Dukler Professor of Chemical Engineering at UH, has received the 2020 Edith and Peter O’Donnell Award in Engineering from The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas, known as TAMEST. READ FULL ARTICLE University of Houston’s Center for Carbon Management in Energy Introduces Webinar Series By Janet Miranda The University of Houston’s Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) announced its webinar series, which began April 2, to address key topical areas and issues facing the energy industry during this unprecedented time. The six-part series ended in early May and was designed to continue communication and interaction with the energy industry. Topics ranged from legal and business policy to transformative technologies, along with the impact the coronavirus has had on the energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Energy hosts webinar for students about navigating the future energy industry By Janet Miranda UH Energy hosted a student-focused webinar on the current outlook for the energy industry and provided tips for students who want to enter the industry. The webinar, "Future Energy Outlook and Desired Workforce Skillsets for Students," was livestreamed and included energy experts who provided advice and answered questions. The panel included Scott Nyquist, director and senior partner at McKinsey & Company; Bill Maloney, director of Trident Energy and energy advisor for Warburg Pincus; and Cindy Yeilding, senior vice president at BP. READ FULL ARTICLE April 2020 ▼ Features - April 2020 The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility Hosts ESG workshop By Janet Miranda The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) hosted a daylong workshop on Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance, known as ESG in the energy sector. The workshop featured ESG energy experts, panels and workshop case studies exploring how to navigate this new arena. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy summer course ready to enroll students amid remote academic instruction for summer session By Janet Miranda “Energy, Society and the Middle East” is a 4-week online course that blends social sciences with technical concepts, providing technical students with a cultural context while exploring the future of the region. The course, taught by associate professor and Middle Eastern Studies program director Emran El-Badawi, has begun enrollment for the upcoming 2020 summer session II, amid the move to remote instruction due to the coronavirus pandemic. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Team Places Second in 2020 Gulf Coast Section of AAPG’s Imperial Barrel Award Competition By Jeannie Kever Under the leadership of team captain Maddie Bishop, the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences’ Imperial Barrel Award (IBA) team placed second at the annual American Association of Petroleum Geologists IBA Competition for the Gulf Coast Section. The five-member team consisted of graduate students in geology and geophysics, including Bishop (M.S.), Mei Liu (Ph.D.), Michael Fonseca (M.S.), Ben Miller (M.S.) and senior undergraduate student Brook Runyon. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight - William Maloney By Janet Miranda William “Bill” Maloney is on the board of directors of Trident Energy, ATX Energy and serves as an energy advisor to Warburg Pincus. Before that, he was executive vice president at Equinor, which was then known as Statoil, retiring in 2015. In that capacity he played a key role on Statoil’s Corporate Executive Committee, leading business area development and production in North America. READ FULL ARTICLE February 2020 ▼ Features - February 2020 Law Center Student Wins International Energy Law Writing Competition By Janet Miranda Megan Rollag, a third-year UH Law Center (UHLC) student, won top honors in the 2019-2020 Association of International Petroleum Negotiators Writing Competition. Her paper titled, “Future of Cross-Border Pipeline Projects in AMLO’s Mexico: What’s the Risk” is about the multifaceted nature of $1 billion international investment projects in the oil and gas industry. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Hosts Congressional Hearing About the Future of Carbon Capture Research By Janet Miranda On Nov. 22nd the University of Houston hosted the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science, Space & Technology for a field hearing on future research and development on carbon capture, utilization and storage. The hearing was held at the Hilton University of Houston. READ FULL ARTICLE Can Mindfulness Keep Offshore Energy Workers Safe? By Jeannie Kever The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) at the University of Houston (UH) will host a day long workshop on Environment, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG) as applied to the different sectors of the energy industry on February 27, 2020. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight - David Ramm By Janet Miranda David Ramm currently serves as the, and chairman and CEO of BrightSource Energy Inc., a leading provider of concentrating solar thermal technology and managing partner of Dymar Development LLC, a Houston-based energy development and consulting company. READ FULL ARTICLE January 2020 ▼ Features - January 2020 Inside Research: Taking Robotics to a New Frontier By Janet Miranda Aaron Becker, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and director of the Robotic Swarm Control Lab talks to UH Energy about his research involving underwater robotics in subsea environments. READ FULL ARTICLE Geophysics Students Organize Exploration Software Bootcamp By Rebeca Trejo The SEG Wavelets is the student chapter of the Society of Exploration Geophysicists at the University of Houston. The group organized a software bootcamp that brought in professionals from companies Schlumberger and StructureSolver to teach the class for students. READ FULL ARTICLE Navigating the Ever-Changing World of ESG in the Energy Industry By The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) at the University of Houston (UH) will host a day long workshop on Environment, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG) as applied to the different sectors of the energy industry on February 27, 2020. REGISTER NOW 2019 December 2019 ▼ Features - December 2019 Q&A: Forbes Scholar Sara Haq’s 30 Under 30 Summit Experience By Janet Miranda Sara Haq is a supply chain senior and student board member of the Energy Coalition. She recently attended the Forbes 30 Under 30 Summit as a Forbes Scholar. Haq talks to us about her experience and advice for students interested in attending. READ FULL ARTICLE November 2019 ▼ Features - November 2019 UH Energy has $1.6 billion economic impact on local region By Janet Miranda A new study reports that UH Energy, which oversees efforts across University of Houston to serve as a strategic partner to the energy industry, added $1.6 billion to the Greater Houston economy during fiscal year 2017-2018. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Energy Participates in Energy Day Festival in Downtown Houston By Janet Miranda UH Energy participated in the ninth annual Energy Day Festival last month, hosted by the Consumer Energy Education Foundation and the Consumer Energy Alliance at Sam Houston Park. READ FULL ARTICLE Low Frequency Seismic Prototype to Expand Seismic Capability By Rachel Fairbank The University of Houston received a 78,000-pound Counter Rotating Eccentric Mass Vibrator – eXperimental Prototype, or CREMV-XP for short. The device is the first of its kind and will support the mission of a new industry-supported research consortium at UH. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Hosts IPAA/PESA Exploring Energy Conference By Janet Miranda The University of Houston hosted the two-day Exploring Energy Conference High School Conference at the Student Center South on Oct 23-24. READ FULL ARTICLE September | October 2019 ▼ Features - September | October 2019 UH Delegation Visits National Energy Laboratory in Pittsburgh By Charles McConnell Representatives of the University of Houston discussed some of the University’s key energy initiatives during a recent daylong exchange with executives from the Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL). READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight on member Ajay Mehta By Janet Miranda Ajay Mehta, General Manger for New Energies Research & Technology at Shell, is one of 25 energy leaders who make up the University of Houston’s Energy Advisory Board (EAB). READ FULL ARTICLE UH Energy Launches Executive Education Program By Janet Miranda UH Energy and the Center for Carbon Management in Energy are launching a new certificate program, the Executive Certificate in Sustainable Energy Development. The certificate is aimed at both senior and future energy executives and will prepare them for the rapidly changing global energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE August 2019 ▼ Features - August 2019 Inside Research: Welch-UH Center director sets sights on ‘broader scope’ of polymer research By Janet Miranda Polymers, often overlooked, have become a ubiquitous feature of modern life. That’s what Eva Harth, director of the Welch-UH Center of Excellence in Polymer Chemistry would have you know. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Coalition Spotlight: New Year, New Vision By Janet Miranda The Energy Coalition is the largest energy-centered organization on campus, connecting students with key energy leaders and organizing energy events. READ FULL ARTICLE South Korean Delegation Visits the University of Houston By Janet Miranda A South Korean delegation visited the University of Houston as part of the State Department’s International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP) to learn about developments in technology and commerce for the global supply of liquified natural gas (LNG). READ FULL ARTICLE July 2019 ▼ Features - July 2019 UH Energy Launches EVolve Houston in Collaboration with CenterPoint Energy and the City of Houston By Janet Miranda Sustainability is a loaded word in Houston. When you think of Houston, images of the oil and gas industry that contribute... READ FULL ARTICLE How the Data Science Institute’s academic programs aim to build the next generation of skilled energy leaders By Janet Miranda It would be a major overstatement to dismiss the growing importance of data science in the future of the energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Subsea Systems Institute Advances Robotics Innovation in Gulf of Mexico Offshore Exploration By Janet Miranda The Subsea Systems Institute (SSI) is a collaboration between the University of Houston, Rice University and... READ FULL ARTICLE UH Team Wins World Finals of AAPG Imperial Barrel Award By Jeannie Kever A team of five Ph.D. and M.S. students from the University of Houston’s Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences... READ FULL ARTICLE May | June 2019 ▼ Features - May | June 2019 Designing the Net Zero Future: Interdisciplinary UH Team Wins Change Happens! Home Design Competition By Janet Miranda Two interdisciplinary teams of UH students vied for the 1st place of the Change Happens! Energy Efficient Home Design competition. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Leads Dialogue in Risk Management and Investment Protection in case of Venezuela Energy Crisis By Janet Miranda In an effort to promote dialogue about asset protection and chemical security in the oil and gas industry... READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight on Member Carri Lockhart By Janet Miranda Carri Lockhart, Senior Vice President for Equinor’s Development and Production International, is one of the 24 board executives that make up the UH Energy Advisory Board. READ FULL ARTICLE March | April 2019 ▼ Features - March | April 2019 A Sustainable Entry: Five UH Students Created an Art Car to Promote Sustainability By Jeannie Kever None of the students had ever been to the Houston Art Car Parade, but as it turned out, that wasn’t a problem. READ FULL ARTICLE ABB Student Ambassador Program Provides Industry and Networking Experience to Students By Janet Miranda UH Energy and ABB, a multinational technological leader in robotics & automation, recently partnered to recruit UH students for an informative “mini-internship” experience. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Builds Dynamic Energy Leaders Amid Energy Transition Through Gutierrez Energy Management Institute By Janet Miranda The Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI), housed within the C.T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, has been at the forefront of a dynamic energy education program with the expertise and support of the industry, benefiting career-seeking students in the energy sector since 2001. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Advisory Board Spotlight on member Clay Williams By Janet Miranda Clay Williams, Chairman, President and CEO of National Oilwell Varco is one of the 24 industry leaders who make up the UH Energy Advisory Board. READ FULL ARTICLE Researchers are gathering data off the coast of Antarctica to improve predictions of future sea-level rise By Jeannie Kever Antarctica is one of the most remote spots on earth, roughly the size of the United States and Mexico combined and home to a rotating roster of scientists. READ FULL ARTICLE January | February 2019 ▼ Features - January | February 2019 UH Launches Center for Carbon Management in Energy For A Holistic Approach to a Low Carbon Future By Janet Miranda The University of Houston recently launched its Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) to connect faculty, researchers and students at UH with the energy industry. READ FULL ARTICLE Energy Coalition Spotlight: Co-Vice Chairs of Student Organization Relations Efforts to Grow Member Organizations By Janet Miranda As we start another semester the Energy Coalition (EC) board, the largest organization on campus with over 8,000 students working across six colleges and over 30 majors, gets ready to touch base with prospective organizations. READ FULL ARTICLE UH Professor Recognized in 25 Influential Women in Energy Luncheon By Janet Miranda Christine Ehlig-Economides, Hugh Roy and Lillie Cranz Cullen Distinguished University Chair at the University of Houston, was recently named by Houston-based publishing company Hart Energy as one of 25 Influential Women in Energy. Ehlig-Economides is one of just two women from academia who made the list. READ FULL ARTICLE Uniting Research and Service: PROMES Director’s Quest to Increase Diversity in STEM By Janet Miranda Jerrod Henderson, instructional assistant professor in the Cullen College of Engineering at the University of Houston and director of Program for Mastery in Engineering Studies (PROMES), has dedicated his career to uniting his passion for chemical engineering with his passion for teaching and mentoring to increase the number of minority students in the STEM field. READ FULL ARTICLE 2018 India Special Edition 2018 ▼ Features - India Special Edition 2018 Academic-Industry Partnership Offers Benefits for Both Sides An innovative partnership between the University of Houston and Oil India Ltd. led to dramatically increased expected oil reserves and also contributed to production enhancement from Oil India fields and paved the way for a project to boost oil recovery from established reservoirs while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Read More UH Signs on to Help Boost Innovation and Commercialization in India By Janet Miranda The University of Houston and iCreate, the India-based International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology, have agreed to work together to initiate “innovation to rapid commercialization” that could lead to explosive growth in the Indian market, solving a central problem in the Asian nation. Read More UH Signs MoU with Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy By Rashda Khan The University of Houston recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), declared by the Indian Parliament as an “institution of national importance.” Read More UH and IIT Kharagpur to Promote Collaborative Programs in Petroleum Engineering By Janet Miranda The University of Houston and the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for joint academic and research collaborations. The initial areas of work identified include petroleum engineering, covering niche aspects of chemical, advanced materials, deep-sea technology and analytics and industrial engineering. Read More UH Professor Creates Research Connections with GIAN Program By Janet Miranda Rakesh Verma, professor of computer science and director of ReDas Lab at the University of Houston, taught a short course called “Security from the Data Science Perspective” at the Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, under a competitive Indian government program called the Global Initiative of Academic Networks, also known as GIAN. Read More VAJRA Program Links UH Professor to Indian Institute of Technology at Madras By Janet Miranda Gopal Pandurangan, professor of computer science in the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at the University of Houston, has also served as visiting professor at his alma mater, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) at Madras, through a program designed to strengthen ties between universities in India and elsewhere. IIT Madras is the top ranked engineering school in India according to the National rankings of the Indian government. Read More November | December 2018 ▼ Features - November | December 2018 UH Energy and IPAA/PESA Partnership Promotes A New Generation of Energy Leaders By Janet Miranda The partnership between UH Energy and the high school academies supported by the Independent Petroleum Association of America/Petroleum Equipment & Services Association (IPAA/PESA) promotes STEM careers and engages the future technical workforce. Read More Ardebili Named Director of Innovation and Entrepreneurship at Cullen College By Janet Miranda Haleh Ardebili, Bill D. Cook associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Houston, has been named director of the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Initiative at the Cullen College of Engineering. The Role Will Focus on Fostering a Culture of Innovation. Read More Ozone Level Collection Gives Students Firsthand Field Research Experience By Janet Miranda Before the impact of ozone levels on air quality and human health were widely known, Houston was known for some of the worst air quality in the nation. The growing emissions from traffic, refineries, petrochemical facilities and other industrial sources contributed to the smoggy air. Read More Four Students Selected As 2018 Forbes Under 30 Scholars Attend the Summit in Boston By Janet Miranda Four students at the University of Houston were recently selected as Forbes Under 30 Scholars. The partnership between Forbes and higher education institutions grants juniors and seniors the chance to attend the 2018 Forbes Under 30 Summit. Read More September | October 2018 ▼ Features - September | October 2018 Energy Symposium Focuses on the Rise of New Innovation and the Changes to the Grid By Janet Miranda The opening discussion of the 2018-19 Energy Symposium Series, “Future of the Electric Grid: Renewed or Gridlocked?” focused on the changing landscape of the energy market, with the growth of renewable energy as well as the impact of technological innovations. Read More UH Law Center Student Wins Second Place in Energy Law Competition By Janet Miranda Maddison Malone Riddick, a third-year UH Law Center student, won second place in an energy law writing competition sponsored by the American Bar Association. Her article focused on access to solar energy within homeowner associations. Read More Professor Spotlight: Weglein’s Journey in Fundamental High Impact Seismic Research By Janet Miranda As a young man growing up in the South Bronx, Arthur Weglein never imagined he would end up with a long and illustrious career in theoretical physics, honored with a distinguished chair or that he would join the faculty at the University of Houston. Read More Chair Christian Beduya’s Initiatives for the Largest Student Organization on Campus By Janet Miranda As we start the new school year, the Energy Coalition (EC) board welcomes a new students into key board positions. Made up of 18 students, the board is in charge of planning events and connecting with key energy leaders. Christian Beduya, a finance and economics student, is the EC’s third chair since the student-run organization was founded. Read More August 2018 ▼ Features - August 2018 The Office of Sustainability’s Efforts for a Greener Campus By Janet Miranda The University of Houston has worked for a decade to foster environmentally-friendly initiatives on campus, beginning with the promotion of a campus-wide recycling program and leading to the creation of the Office of Sustainability. The Office of Sustainability serves as a hub for UH’s sustainability efforts and works to cultivate a culture of sustainability on campus. Read More Equinor Invests In Energy & Sustainability Students with Scholarship Program By Janet Miranda Six students enrolled in the University of Houston’s Energy & Sustainability minor were recently selected for the Equinor Scholars Program, sponsored by international energy company Equinor. The company, formerly known as Statoil, sponsored student scholarships of $1,000 per semester and will also provide mentoring by Equinor employees. Read More Offshore Regulator's Conference 2018 By Sharinna Byrd Tim Duncan, chief executive officer of Talos Energy LLC, served as keynote speaker for the Second Inter-American Hydrocarbons Regulators Dialogue Conference last spring, part of an initiative by the University of Houston to create a forum for dialogue between hydrocarbon industry regulators, service companies, law firms and universities. Read More June 2018 ▼ Features - June 2018 UH’s Subsea Program Director Makes Waves in Subsea Education By Valeria Dominguez Phaneedra Kondapi, director of UH’s subsea engineering program, is at the forefront of expanding subsea education. Kondapi joined the program as an adjunct faculty member in 2011, when UH dove into uncharted waters and launched the nation’s first subsea master’s degree program. With growing demand for people to fill jobs in the offshore industry and no subsea engineering programs in the U.S., the program was born. Read More UH Chapter of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) Wildcatters Win Special Award By Sharinna Byrd Officers of University of Houston’s chapter of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists were presented with the “Outstanding Domestic Student Chapter Award” at the AAPG 101st Annual Convention and Exhibition in Salt Lake City in May. AAPG has more than 245 student chapters world-wide . Read More The University of Houston Hosts 3rd Annual Energy Banquet By Sharinna Byrd Energy professionals, students and alumni filled the UH Hilton Conrad Ballroom on the evening of April 19, 2018 to attend the 3 rd Annual UH Energy Banquet. The celebration brings back alumni and connects them with students, industry professionals and members of the Energy Advisory Board. Read More UH Team Wins NASA Competition By Sharinna Byrd Solar-powered refrigeration has been a winner at business plan competitions across the country, driven by a team from the University of Houston and the business plan the team created to commercialize a technology developed by NASA. The PolarPanel team competed in nine competitions, winning five and taking home more than $45,000 in cash prizes, money that they will use to fund building the third-generation prototype and testing. Read More April 2018 ▼ Features - April 2018 Energy, Artificial Intelligence & Robotics: The Future of People in Energy Production By Valeria Dominguez UH Energy’s fourth and last energy symposium for 2017-18 featured robotics experts Rasheed Haq, global head of AI, robotics and data engineering for Sapient Consulting; Julia Badger, project manager for robonaut and autonomous spacecraft management projects at NASA-Johnson Space Center; Michael “Mickey” Frish, manager of industrial sensors at Physical Sciences; and David Reid, chief marketing officer at National Oilwell Varco. Read More UH Energy Launches the Energy Plant Operations Innovation Challenge By Valeria Dominguez Along the Gulf Coast, hundreds of chemical, petrochemical, refinery and power plants are operating. These plants were designed decades ago and face vulnerability to extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes and heavy rainfall. Today, there is a need for creative innovation due to the rapid advancement of today’s technology and analytical tools. What can we do to make energy plants more resistant to extreme weather? How can plant personnel improve operations with minimal loss? Read More Student Spotlight - Nicolas Xiong By Valeria Dominguez While most 17-year-olds are consumed with angst and excitement as they navigate the complex college application process, Xiong is already five months removed from receiving his diploma—not from high school, but from the University of Houston. Read More High School Senior Writes on What a Melting of the Arctic Means for U.S.-Russian Relations By Valeria Dominguez Nikola Skerl, a senior at Houston’s Carnegie Vanguard High School, won first place in an essay competition sponsored by UH Energy and the UH Honors College about the future of U.S.-Russian relations. Read More March 2018 ▼ E90 Video Competition By Valeria Dominguez UH Energy calls videographers, filmmakers, animators to participate in the 1 st Annual E-90 video competition. Current University of Houston students have a chance to put their storytelling abilities to the test. Read More EAB Spotlight: Tanner Moran By Valeria Dominguez Tanner Moran has been appointed as a new member of the UH Energy Advisory Board. Moran, the managing director at Hastings Equity Partners, brings 10 years of experience leading business development efforts to the EAB. Read More Student Spotlight - Clara Palencia By Claire Andersen Doctoral student Clara Palencia earned a second place award in the PhD category of the International Student Society of Petrophysicists and Well Lock Analysts (SPWLA) competition last summer for a paper on the properties of mudrocks, a class of sedimentary rock. Read More UH Petroleum Engineering Student Uses her Background for Future Success By Valeria Dominguez Anisha Deka stands out as an engineering student at the University of Houston. While pursuing a master’s degree in petroleum engineering, Deka shows that by combining her background from the oil and gas industry in India with her graduate studies in Houston, she is making strides on the path to a successful career in the energy sector. Read More Renewable Energy: Should Government Subsidies Continue? By Valeria Dominguez The third installment of UH Energy’s popular symposium series featured industry experts presenting research and answering questions surrounding the future of government subsidies to promote renewable energy. Read More February 2018 ▼ North American Energy Ministers Visit UH By Valeria Dominguez The North American Energy Ministerial took place at Hilton University of Houston on Nov.14. U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry, Canada’s Minister of Natural Resources Jim Carr and Mexican Energy Secretary Pedro Joaquin Coldwell participated in a panel discussion. Read More Welcome, Elsa Gonzalez By Claire Andersen The College of Education welcomed assistant professor Elsa Gonzalez, research specialist in higher education leadership, in August to continue her research at UH. Gonzalez has led an intensive research project for nearly seven years that focuses on access and retention of underrepresented students, particularly Latinas, in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields. Read More Student Leader - Anand Selveindran By Valeria Dominguez Anand Selveindran, a petroleum engineering graduate student, claimed first place in the Poster category for his research, “Cowden South Grayburg Field Development.” Read More 2017 October 2017 ▼ Energy Night Preview 10/23/2017 | By Claire Andersen The Energy Coalition, the largest energy-related student organization on campus, will host its third annual Energy Night next month. The event will feature several industry leaders who will share about their experience in the energy field and how they got to where they are today. Energy Night is meant for all UH students interested in or curious about the energy industry. Attendees will have opportunity to network with other energy-focused students, play games and win prizes. Read more >> Age of the Drones 10/23/2017 | By Claire Andersen While the rest of the University of Houston’s students and faculty were trying to beat the August heat, professor Bob Talbot was in Fort Collins, Co. watching a drone bob and weave across a mock oil production site on a mission to locate methane leaks. The drone is the center of Talbot’s biggest active project, an initiative from the Department of Energy’s Small Business Innovation Research Program to create a device that can autonomously detect and quantify fugitive methane leaks. Read more >> Birol Dindoruk inducted to the National Academy of Engineers 10/23/2017 | By Claire Andersen The University of Houston’s petroleum engineering program, the largest and fastest growing department in the Cullen College of Engineering, can now boast another National Academy of Engineers (NAE) member on its staff. Adjunct professor Birol Dindoruk was inducted into NAE, which is widely considered the highest honor for an engineer, in early October. Read more >> Global Energy Internships 10/23/2017 | By Claire Andersen Two graduate students from the Cullen College of Engineering’s petroleum engineering department traveled to India this summer for a ten-week internship with Oil India Limited, the nation’s national oil companies. Read more >> September 2017 ▼ Student Leader | How one UH student meets his goals as an energy leader, researcher and innovator 09/26/2017 | By Claire Andersen Free time is hard to come by, and even more rare for university students. Most 20-something college students use their precious free time studying, spending time with friends or catching up on Netflix. But Julian Chenin is not your average college student. In addition to his regular class schedule, Chenin also participates in rare geological research, works several jobs and is a student leader of one of the largest student organizations on campus. Read more >> A Bright Future for Texas | UH researchers delve into the essentials of a qualified workforce for Texas 09/26/2017 | By Claire Andersen While the University of Houston blazes forward in athletics, research and student body population growth, academic departments prove that they can keep up and even exceed that pace. The Hobby School of Public Policy, just over a year old, is already making its mark not only on state policy but also on the growth and success of the Texas workforce. Read more >> Connecting Leaders in Energy | Renewable energy advisor shares his thoughts on UH and the future of energy education 09/26/2017 | By Claire Andersen David Ramm, leader and contributor in the renewable energy industry, is one of the 21 industry executives who serve on President Khator’s Energy Advisory Board (EAB). Having been both an active member and chairman during his time on the board, Ramm is familiar with the president's energy goals and equipped to guide the university to new heights. Read more >> August 2017 ▼ Power and Energy in Focus | New UH certificate program enlightens students on the ins and outs of electrical systems 08/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen This fall, the Cullen College of Engineering will offer new courses in Power and Energy Systems, a certificate program created by Kaushik Rajashekara. The program will feature courses that train students to understand both the technical and business aspects of electrical systems. Read more >> Student Leader | How the new Energy Coalition chair plans to expand upon the largest student organization on campus 08/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen With the new school year comes a new board for the Energy Coalition (EC). Made up of 18 students, the board is in charge of creating and planning events as well as collaborating with industry players. Yilhak Abebe, a petroleum engineering student, is the new acting chair. Read more >> Going Global | UH students see O&G from a global perspective at the World Petroleum Conference 08/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen Two students from the University of Houston were selected to represent the United States at the 2017 World Petroleum Congress (WPC) in Istanbul, Turkey in July. Recent graduate David Lankford-Bravo and senior Euler Reyes joined nearly 70 other young professionals from around the world as volunteers for the 22 nd WPC. Read more >> Connecting Leaders in Energy | Energy Advisory Board spotlight on member John Gibson 08/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen One of the founding members of the UH’s Energy Advisory Board (EAB), John Gibson continues to promote the university’s energy initiative with his unique viewpoint and passionate curiosity. Gibson currently advises Tudor, Pickering Holt, & Co. on energy technology and serves on the board of directors of Orocobre, the world’s first commercial, brine-based lithium operation constructed in approximately 20 years. Gibson received both his Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in geology and has diverse experience in the energy industry, from upstream oil and gas and the environment to digital and power storage. Read more >> Alumni Spotlight | UH Alumna gains multidimensional experience at leading O&G company 08/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen UH alumna Sarah Murphy has created a career worth noticing in just the three short years since she graduated. Murphy is part of Shell’s Graduate Program , a three-year rotational program created to enhance the careers of young professionals. During her time at Shell, Murphy was given opportunities to work in and become familiar with various parts of the business. Read more >> July 2017 ▼ Space Talk | Recent UH Graduate Tells of His Leap from O&G to Aerospace Engineering 07/19/2017 | By Claire Andersen The core of this boomtown has long been oil and gas, but UH’s focus extends far beyond what is conventionally categorized as energy. SpaceX employee and recent UH graduate Graham Mullings proves just how out-of-this-world energy students can go. Read more >> Program Spotlight | Energy & Sustainability Minor Prepares Students to be Industry Leaders 07/19/2017 | By Claire Andersen The Energy and Sustainability minor at the University of Houston is preparing the upcoming workforce by expanding its knowledge and understanding of the diversity. The minor was founded as a multidisciplinary academic track to ensure that students understand the concepts and applications of energy and sustainability from both technical and nontechnical perspectives. Read more >> Campus Energy Leader | Energy Coalition Vice Chair Ready to Share her Passion for Energy on Campus 07/19/2017 | By Claire Andersen As the upcoming school year fast approaches, the Energy Coalition’s new board is preparing for a new year of expansion and growth. As one of the largest student organizations on campus, the board is determined to educate and impassion UH students on all things energy. Executive board member Kamalpreet Kaur is a key part of this effort. Now a senior Management Information Systems (MIS) student, Kaur is determined to share her passion for energy with other students before she makes her own start in the industry. Read more >> June 2017 ▼ Energy Experts | New Director of the EENR Center Prepares to Boost UH as National Leader in Environment and Energy 06/21/2017 | By Claire Andersen With climate and environmental issues taking center stage again, one of the nation’s leading environmental lawyers has returned to the UH Law Center with determination to merge the energy and law industries. Victor Flatt was recently hired as the Dwight Olda Chair in law and the Faculty Director of the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources (EENR) Center, which he helped to found in 2007. Read more >> Global Reach | UH Graduate Certificate Prepares International Leaders in Sustainable and Responsible Oil and Gas Practices 06/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen A unique graduate certificate at the University of Houston, the Global Energy, Development, and Sustainability (GEDS) certificate has drawn scholars from down the street and around the world for its unique curriculum and expertise. This May, a group of government officials from the Ministry of Energy in Albania came to UH to for the executive certificate program, where they focused on topics ranging from community development to energy histories and operating standards. Read more>> Passion for Energy | How a Recent UH Graduate Created the Largest Energy-Focused Community on Campus 06/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen It is clear to anyone who speaks to Phillip Jefferson that the University of Houston is a significant source of passion and pride for him. When asked to describe himself in three words, he answered without hesitation: passionate, intense and loving.  If there was room for another word, it would surely be dedicated. Dedicated to being the best, dedicated to making his mark and most of all , dedicated to UH . Read More>> Connecting Leaders | How One Alumna Continues to Strengthen the UH Community Through the Energy Advisory Board 06/16/2017 | By Claire Andersen President of EDF Oil Services, Mary Anne Brelinsky is one of the 21 industry leaders who make up the UH Energy Advisory Board. A member for the past two years, Brelinsky is part of the effort to lend strategic guidance to the energy initiatives at the University of Houston, helping to develop resources and strengthening the university’s reputation in Houston and beyond. Read more May 2017 ▼ Keys to Success | Chemical Engineering Student Rises as Future Leader in Renewable Energy Research 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen Rawan AlMallahi’s college career embraces all the elements of an American success story: hard work, persistence and victory against all odds. Just five years after coming to Houston from the United Arab Emirates, AlMallahi is one of the recipients of the 2017 National Science Foundation research fellowship award. Read more >> Shaping Tomorrow's Leaders | UH Institute Paves the Way for UH to be the Leading Energy University 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen The UH Gutierrez Energy Management Institute is preparing students to lead the future of the energy industry. More than two dozen energy executives gathered at the Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) on the University of Houston campus earlier this spring, participating in a daylong strategy session to talk about what the Trump administration might mean for the industry and how best to prepare for that change. Read more >> Shining Light on Big Data | New Mathematical System Created by UH Professor Promises a More Efficient Future for Data Gathering 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen A new graduate certificate program focusing on a revolutionary data analytics system will begin next fall in the subsea engineering program. Created by Matthew Franchek, the founding director of the UH subsea engineering program, this program will train students to use adaptive model-based edge analytics, which is designed to gather key information from large masses of dark data to better predict when a system is about to fail. Read more >> Offshore Research with SSI | How an Industry-driven, Houston based Institute is Supporting Safe and Efficient Offshore Development 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen The Subsea Systems Institute (SSI), established in late 2015 through the RESTORE Act, is moving forward to bridge academic research and the oil and gas industry. Funded as one of the six Centers of Excellence created after the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, SSI concentrates on improving the safety and sustainability of offshore oil and gas exploration and development. Read more >> The Ultimate Home Team Victory | A Team of UH Graduate Students Sweeps the Imperial Barrel Award Program Competition 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen A team of five University of Houston graduate students brought home first prize from the international finals of the 2017 American Association of Petroleum Geologist’s (AAPG) Imperial Barrel Award Program (IBA) Competition.  The team was made up of two Ph.D. students, Eric Lunn and Delaney Robinson, and three M.S. students, Walter Reed, Leiser Silva and Andrew Steier.  Read more >> O&G Law in Action | Regulators from Leading Oil Production Nations Gathered for Annual Conference in Houston 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen In effort to promote collaboration with hydrocarbon regulators, the UH Environment, Energy and Natural Resources (EENR) Center has created various opportunities for industry players and universities to contribute to the expansion of regulatory practices. Read more >> Solving Real-Time O&G Challenges | Distinguished Professor is Leading a Team of Scientists to Optimize Oil Recovery 05/04/2017 | By Claire Andersen As the oil industry recovers from its most recent fall, a team of six elite scientists and engineers at the University of Houston (UH) are putting their heads together to solve the real-time challenges faced by the industry.  Ganesh Thakur, a world-renowned expert in reservoir management and oil fields rejuvenation, leads this team in a multiphase project focused on improving oilfield performance for Oil India Limited. Read more >> UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies