Research - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Research Research Page contents: At a Glance News Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers Innovation & Entrepreneurship Division of Research Moving Discovery Forward University of Houston researchers and inventors are transforming ideas into innovations. Our innovators are developing new technologies that span across the delivery of healthcare to harnessing our natural resources. We are also thought leaders around the creation of art and designing programs that support our diverse Houston community. Research at A Glance Notable Faculty Scholarly Book Publications 1,075 Ranked Faculty $145M New Awards (FY21) $203M Research Expenditures (FY21) 17 National Academy of Engineering Members 4 National Academy of Science Members 70 Total Winners of NSF CAREER Awards (since ’96) Latest Research News View the Archives May 24, 2022 Stem Cell Cloning Experts Unraveling Cystic Fibrosis May 19, 2022 Fertitta Family Pledges $50 Million to UH College of Medicine to Propel ‘New Era of Health Care’ May 18, 2022 Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information May 17, 2022 Shale Reservoirs Could be ‘Substantial Source of Lithium’ May 16, 2022 Buildup of Solar Heat Likely Contributes to Mars’ Dust Storms, Researchers Find May 16, 2022 Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification Undergraduate Research UH’s undergraduate students hone their skills through a multitude of opportunities to conduct faculty-mentored research projects. These experiences enhance students’ abilities to sharpen their leadership, critical thinking and problem solving skills that will fuel their success in organizations, institutions and communities after graduation. Learn More About Undergraduate Research Provost's Undergraduate Research Scholarship Program (PURS) PURS provides talented UH juniors and seniors with the opportunity to participate in a semester-long research project under the direction of a UH faculty mentor. Houston Early Research Experience (HERE) HERE is a two-week seminar series that orients rising sophomore and junior undergraduates to the fundamentals of conducting research. Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) SURF provides fellowships to UH undergraduates to participate in full-time summer research experiences under the direction of UH faculty. Graduate Research The UH Graduate School cultivates and fortifies academic excellence in graduate and professional education. A Carnegie-designated Tier One Research University, UH offers master’s degrees in 133 fields and doctoral degrees in 62 fields. With more than $150 million in research expenditures in fiscal year 2015, UH delivers more than 6,000 graduate students valuable opportunities to research under esteemed scholars, who are invested in basic research, knowledge sharing and transferring research into real-life applications and technologies. Learn More About Graduate Studies National Research Centers UH leads five nationally-funded centers, comprising numerous collaborations with partner institutions and industry. Sponsored by nearly $20 million in funding, these centers pioneer groundbreaking research in the areas of energy, materials, psychology, laser mapping and homeland security. Advanced Superconductor Manufacturing Institute (ASMI) ASMI is an industry-driven consortium focused on the advanced manufacturing of high-temperature superconductors in the U.S. Center for Building Reliable Advances and Innovations in Neurotechnologies (BRAIN Center) The Center for Building Reliable Advances and Innovations in Neurotechnologies (BRAIN Center) develops safe, effective and affordable personalized neurotechnologies for diagnostics, restoration, enhancement, and rehabilitation of sensory, motor, affective and cognitive functions. Borders, Trade and Immigration (BTI) Institute BTI addresses national challenges related to borders, trade and immigration through innovations in technology, informed policy, and mission-focused education and training programs. BTI became a DHS Emeritus Center of Excellence in 2021. Center for Integrated Catalysis (CIC) The Center for Integrated Catalysis (CIC) develops the fundamental chemistry needed to prepare synthetic plastics from pools of abundant feedstocks in a single reactor using spatially separated and temporally switchable catalysts. Center for Success of English Learners (CSEL) UH's newest national center focuses on research aimed at leveling the playing field for middle and high school students who grow up hearing a language other than English in their homes. National Center for Airborne Laser Mapping (NCALM) NCALM uses Airborne Laser Swath Mapping (ALSM) to acquire research quality LiDAR observations to National Science Foundation-funded principal investigators. HEALTH Center for Addictions Research and Cancer Prevention (RCMI) The HEALTH Center for Addictions Research and Cancer Prevention is designed to establish a national exemplar for how community-engaged research can accelerate scientific breakthroughs that can be rapidly disseminated and implemented directly into the targeted community by trained laypersons or paraprofessionals. Subsea Systems Institute (SSI) SSI is a collaborative effort with Rice University and NASA to improve the sustainable and safe development of energy resources in the Gulf of Mexico. Texas Center for Learning Disabilities (TCLD) TCLD investigates the classification and measurement, cognitive, intervention and neuroimaging aspects of learning disabilities. University Centers UH also has eight highly-visible university-supported centers and numerous core research facilities, many of which are available to outside researchers as well as the UH research community. Advanced Manufacturing Institute (AMI) Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) Drug Discovery Institute (DDI) HEALTH Research Institute (HRI) Hewlett Packard Enterprise Data Science Institute (HPE DSI)* Hurricane Resilience Research Institute (HuRRI)* Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University of Houston (TcSUH) Texas Institute for Measurement, Evaluation and Statistics (TIMES) *Provisional university center Innovation and Entrepreneurship UH’s rapid investment in its innovation ecosystem is strategically significant for entrepreneurial faculty, students and alumni interested in guiding new discoveries into the market place or establishing partnerships to launch new companies. In fact, UH earned the designation as an Innovation and Economic Prosperity University by the APLU. UH ranks #1 in the nation among all public universities without medical schools in royalties from technology transfers. With more than $22 million a year in royalties, UH has seen a 400% increase in patent income since 2010. $65MRoyalty Earnings (FY21) 25U.S. Patents (FY21) 73Invention Disclosures (FY21) 30National Academy of Inventors Members The UH Technology Bridge and Bauer College of Business provide integrated facilities and programs focused on innovation and entrepreneurship, all which synthesize new concepts from ideas though invention. UH Innovation Center & Labs UH's Innovation Center and Labs offer opportunities for fast-moving startups interested in connecting to entrepreneurial resources or moving technologies to the next level. NSF I-Corps Through UH's National Science Foundation I-Corps program, UH shepherds new technologies to commercial development. Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship WCE is an excellent source of entrepreneurially-minded students who create and participate in startup companies based on UH technologies. RedLabs RED Labs is UH’s startup accelerator and tech co-working space designed to help companies make a rapid start. 3 Day Startup 3 Day Startup is a three-day intense workshop where students can accelerate their ideas into companies. Small Business Development Center The UH Small Business Development Center is a great on-campus resource for startups or more established companies. Division of Research UH’s Division of Research bolsters its growing research enterprise from the development of large-scale multidisciplinary research efforts through the patenting and licensing of technologies. The Division’s robust sponsored research and compliance endeavors are designed to shepherd all levels of researchers — faculty, staff or students, sponsored or non-sponsored — through efficient and ethical research protocols. Division of Research home Leadership Sponsored Research Research Integrity and Oversight Technology Transfer and Innovation Strategic Research Communications Data, Assessment and IT Business Operations Animal Care Operations Scratching your head about research issues? The Big Idea is a blog about the business of research published by the Division of Research at the University of Houston. It covers an array of topics: from compliance and safety issues to startups and innovation. It was envisioned as a forum for showcasing best practices, addressing timely issues and collecting expert opinions from the many fields of research administration. Learn More University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies