Skip to main content Restrict my search to Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate College of Social Work About Welcome Message About Our Dean Mission & Vision Strategic Plan 2017-2021 Faculty Directory Administrative Offices Contact GCSW Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Current Students MSW Course Schedules PhD Course Schedules Student Organizations International Education Scholarships and Financial Support MSW Student Standards & Policies Forms & Procedures Student Resources Graduation Guide Prospective Students Apply Now MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Scholarships and Financial Support Connect with Us Research Child and Family Center for Innovative Research Maternal Health Equity Research and Training Center MH-RITES Research Center SUSTAIN Wellbeing COMPASS Coordinating Center upEND Movement H.E.A.R. Lab News & Events GCSW in the News Events GCSW Stories Community Events Eyes on Abolition ONWARD I The Next 50 Years Racial Justice Symposium GCSW Mural Renovation Project GCSW E-News Photo Galleries Video Gallery Noteworthy Office of Communications Giving Current Funding Opportunities Donor Impact Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory UH Home Graduate College of Social Work Academics Dual Degree Programs Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Dual Degree Programs Several collaborative degree programs are available that enrich the options and opportunities available to our students. Dual degree programs allow students to earn two degrees in less time than it would take to complete them sequentially. Students interested in this option must be admitted separately to each of the programs and admission to one has no official bearing on admission to the other. Since admission to two programs is required, interested persons are encouraged to begin their application process early. In addition, it is recommended that students plan to complete the dual degree options as a full-time student. Options for dual degrees include: MSW/MPP MSW/PhD MSW/MBA MSW/MPH MSW/JD MSW/MPP University of Houston’s Graduate College of Social Work and the Hobby Center for Public Policy offer a concurrent degree program that prepares students for professional practice in social welfare policy arenas. This concurrent degree program enables students to pair the quantitative and ethics-oriented approach to policy analysis offered by the MPP program with the substantive policy and practical training in health and human service related domains offered by the MSW program. Students must apply and be admitted separately by each program. All students must apply to the second program no later than the end of their first year in the first program. It will take approximately three years of full-time study to complete the coursework for both degrees. Sample degree plans can be found here. Both programs require an internship component. The internship requirement for both programs can be met through completion of the required field practicum hours through the GCSW. Students pursuing this concurrent degree are eligible to apply to participate in the Graduate College of Social Work’s Austin Legislative Internship Program. Learn more about the MPP Program MSW/PhD Applicants without a master’s degree in social work, or with a master’s degree in another field, may pursue a program of study that leads to both the M.S.W. and the Ph.D. degrees. Students are prepared to teach, participate in research, and hold high level positions in administration upon graduation from the dual program. Applicants must submit separate applications and fees to both programs. Upon acceptance into this full-time program, it will take approximately 3 1⁄2 years to complete the dual MSW/PhD coursework with up to an additional two (2) years allotted for completion of the doctoral dissertation. The GRE is the accepted graduate school entrance exam for both programs and applicants will need to plan ahead to ensure their scores are submitted before application deadlines. GRE scores cannot be more than 5 years old. It is preferred that MSW/PhD dual degree students spend their first year focused on MSW coursework. The second year combines courses from both programs, with the remaining 2+ years exclusively in PhD coursework. Sample degree plan can be found here. Learn more about the Doctoral Program MSW/MBA University of Houston’s Graduate College of Social Work and the C.T. Bauer College of Business offer a concurrent degree program that enables students to prepare for a career in which knowledge and skills in both social work and business administration are critical. Examples include nonprofit management, organizational development, and employee assistance programs. Upon acceptance, enrollment in both the MSW program at the Graduate College of Social Work and the MBA program at the C.T. Bauer College of Business should occur within a period of one calendar year. The general GRE exam is the accepted graduate school entrance exam for both programs and applicants will need to plan ahead to ensure their scores are submitted before application deadlines. It will take approximately three years of full-time study to complete the coursework for both degrees. It is preferred that the student spend their first year focused on MSW coursework, with the last two years being spent in both programs. Learn more about the MBA Program MSW/MPH The University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work and the University of Texas School of Public Health offer a concurrent degree program that enables students to prepare for careers in which knowledge and skills in both social work and public health are critical. Examples include policy analysis, hospital administration and research. Upon acceptance, enrollment in both the MSW program at the Graduate College of Social Work and the MPH program at the UT School of Public Health should occur within a period of one calendar year. The general GRE exam is the accepted graduate school entrance exam for both programs and applicants will need to plan ahead to ensure their scores are submitted before application deadlines. It will take approximately three years of full-time study to complete the coursework for both degrees. Learn more about the MPH Program MSW/JD The Graduate College of Social Work and the Law Center at the University of Houston offer a concurrent degree program that prepares students for professional practice in arenas where law and social work intersect and complement each other. Examples include public services, health and mental health care systems, services to children and families, and the political arena. This program enables students to finish both degrees in a shorter time than if they were pursued separately. Applicants must be admitted separately to each of the degree programs and admission to one has no official bearing on admission to the other. Applicants need to plan ahead so that their LSAT and GRE scores are submitted to meet application deadlines. Learn more about the JD Program Contacts MPP Program Scott Mason University of Houston Hobby School of Public Affairs 3623 Cullen Boulevard Room 307B Houston, TX 77204-5021 713-743-5572 smason@uh.edu PhD Program Anna Hunter Graduate College of Social Work 3511 Cullen Blvd Room 110HA Houston, TX 77204-4013 713-743-0207 (phone) 713-743-8149 (fax) anjohns8@central.uh.edu MBA Program Meagan Chang C.T. Bauer College of Business 4750 Calhoun Road Houston, TX 77204-6021 713-743-2757 lmchang@bauer.uh.edu MPH Program Joi Thomas, MEd Academic Advisor, Academic Affairs UT School of Public Health 1200 Pressler Houston, Texas 77030 713 500 9070 tel | 713 500 9068 fax Joi.Thomas@uth.tmc.edu JD Program Pilar Mensah University of Houston Law Center 4604 Calhoun Rd. Houston, Texas 77204-6060 713-743-2280 lpmensah@central.uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies