Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Friday, June 10, 2022 9:00 am - 5:00 pm This is a limited capacity event. There are 20 available seats, open only to UH-affiliated students, faculty and staff. About the Event Businesses worldwide are using artificial intelligence to solve their greatest challenges. Healthcare professionals use AI to enable more accurate, faster diagnoses in patients. Retail businesses use it to offer personalized customer shopping experiences. Automakers use it to make personal vehicles, shared mobility, and delivery services safer and more efficiently. Deep learning is a powerful AI approach that uses multi-layered artificial neural networks to deliver state-of-the-art accuracy in tasks such as object detection, speech recognition, and language translation. Using deep learning, computers can learn and recognize patterns from data that are considered too complex or subtle for expert-written software. In this workshop, you’ll learn how deep learning works through hands-on exercises in computer vision and natural language processing. You’ll train deep learning models from scratch, learning tools and tricks to achieve highly accurate results. You’ll also learn to leverage freely available, state-of-the-art pre-trained models to save time and get your deep learning application up and running quickly. About the Speaker Dr. Weihang Zhu received his BS and MS in Mechanical and Energy Engineering from Zhejiang University and Ph.D. in Industrial and Systems Engineering from North Carolina State University. He is a certified University Ambassador by NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute (DLI). Currently he serves as Professor and Graduate Program Coordinator for Mechanical Engineering Technology program in the Department of Engineering Technology, with a joint appointment in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Houston, Houston, Texas. His research expertise areas include machine learning, computational optimization, computer-aided design and manufacturing, computer haptics (sense of touch), mariner and offshore safety, and engineering education. He has secured $5.7M ($2.6M as Principal Investigator) funding from multiple funding agencies including National Science Foundation, National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine, and American Bureau of Shipping. Maps · UH Maps: https://www.uh.edu/maps/#/find/MREB · Google Maps: https://goo.gl/maps/LLfoUyQG5MocFZH68 Please register with your UH email. Please be aware that you must bring your own laptops. Pizzas will be served for lunch. REGISTER Location Hewlett Packard Enterprise Data Science Institute (HPE DSI) University of Houston Durga D. and Sushila Agrawal Engineering Research Building. Workshop Room: AERB 200 Cost Free Contact Ishita Sharma University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies