Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home News & Events / UH Among the Best in the Nation for Success of Hispanic Students News & Events News Releases Emergency Communications Calendars & Events UH News Mailing Lists & Subscriptions UH Among the Best in the Nation for Success of Hispanic Students The University of Houston has been ranked among the top 100 Hispanic-Serving Institutions in the nation by Hispanic Outlook on Education Magazine for the second consecutive year. October 11, 2021 In the Fall of 2020, the University of Houston served more than 15,600 Hispanic students. The University of Houston has been ranked among the top 100 Hispanic-Serving Institutions in the nation by Hispanic Outlook on Education Magazine for the second consecutive year. Based on data collected from the Department of Education, the national magazine honors colleges and universities that are committed to serving the educational needs of Hispanic students. “Not only are we serving a high number of Hispanic students but they are leaving UH with a Tier One degree in hand and limitless opportunity ahead of them,” said Paula Myrick Short, UH senior vice president for academic affairs and provost. “The success of all of our students— including Hispanic students who make up a third of our student body— is paramount to the success of the University of Houston and the Gulf Coast regional economy.” The University of Houston has been a federally designated Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) since 2011 when it became the first public research university in Texas to receive the designation. In the Fall of 2020, the university served more than 15,600 Hispanic students. In the latest ranking by Hispanic Outlook on Education, UH was named in the top 100 in multiple categories based on data from 2019-2020: 14 for the number of bachelor’s degrees granted to Hispanic students 25 for total enrollment of Hispanic students 48 for total master’s degrees awarded to Hispanic students With over 3,000 degrees earned in the fall of 2020, the UH Hispanic student population earned more degrees than any other student population served. UH had four majors rank in the top 10 in the nation for the number of degrees these programs award to Hispanic students. The disciplines include business (No. 5), architecture (No. 8), computer and information sciences (No. 8) and human/consumer sciences (No. 4). Texas’ Hispanic population has grown by more than 2 million since 2010, according to population estimates by the U.S. Census Bureau. Most of Harris County’s growth has come from the Hispanic population. “It is incumbent upon colleges and universities to provide opportunities that will ensure competitiveness, especially among underrepresented populations,” said Richard Walker, UH vice president for student affairs and enrollment services. “We continue to make progress in bolstering student support services that foster success, including programs that address the needs of specific populations such as Hispanic students and those who are the first in their families to attend college.” Established over 30 years ago, The Hispanic Outlook on Education Magazine has been following the progress of Hispanics in higher education and is dedicated to exploring educational issues related to Hispanics. The 2019-2020 rankings will be published in the October edition of Hispanic Outlook on Education Magazine. Categories: Student Success University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies