Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Students Information Technology Printing Services Students Information Technology Printing Services Labs Academic Advising at Sugar Land Study Areas Printing Services Print wirelessly from your mobile device or from the open computer lab to any available Print Release Station. Once the print job has been submitted, proceed to any Print Release Station and follow the instructions listed there. Please note that you must be connected to the "UHSecure" Wi-Fi service set identifier (SSID) or connected via an ethernet cable on campus before you submit your print job. If you are on the public "UHWireless" or any other Wi-Fi network, the print job will not be submitted. If you have any questions or need assistance, contact us at SLTech@uh.edu or 832-842-2999. Locations The Print Release Stations are located: Albert and Mamie George Building (AMG) In the Rotunda near AMG 101 Inside AMG 303 (Open Computer Lab) Brazos Hall (BH) Outside the College of Nursing Office suite near BH 362 Instructions Select your Operating System (OS) below and follow the steps below to send a print job to any UH at Sugar Land Print Release Station. Windows Operating Systems Instructions Mac Operating System Instructions 1. Download file Please note that you must uninstall any previous Uniprint drivers before installing the current driver. Download the current print driver file, named sl-bw-universal_for_x64.exe, from any browser (this example is using Firefox). Save it to your computer. Open and run the sl-bw-universal_for_x64.exe file. If prompted to “Search the app in the app store”, select “NO”. 2. Run the installation file If you see a “Windows protected your PC” dialogue box: Select “More info” Select “Run anyway” 3. Install the printer client package Select “Install” to begin printer client installation. Select “Finish” to complete the process and exit the printer client installation. 4. Print document From the program you wish to print (this example is using Microsoft Word), select “File” > “Print”. Select the “SL-BW-UNIVERSALQueue on UNIPRINT” printer. Select “Print” to send your print job to the Print Release Station . Proceed to any UH at Sugar Land Print Release Station and follow the printing instructions listed there. 1. Download file Download the Popup.dmg file to your Mac OS device from any browser (this example is using Safari browser), and save it to your computer. Open the folder of the download and run/double-click the Popup.dmg file. Once the installer loads, click “Continue” twice. 2. Run the installation file Click “Install” When prompted for password, type in your password for your local computer account and select “Install Software”. Then click “Continue”. After installation is successful, click “close” 3. Open system preferences Open System Preferences and click on “Printers & Scanners”. 4. Add printer Click on the “+” to add printer. Right click (ctrl + Click OR tap with two fingers) next to the “Windows” icon and select “Customize Toolbar”. Drag the “Advanced” icon and place it next to the “Windows” icon. Press “Done” afterwards. Click on “Advanced”, once it loads fill out the following fields: Type Select “Pharos Printer Server” from the drop down menu. Device Select “Another Device” from the drop down menu. URL Type “popup://uniprint.e.uh.edu/slrot-bw01queue” Name Type any name in this field. In this example we will use “UHSL” Location Leave this field blank. Use Select “Generic PostScript Printer” from the drop down menu. Click “Add”. 5. Print document From the program you wish to print, select “File” > “Print”. Select the printer name you added in the previous step. Then, proceed to any UH at Sugar Land Print Release Station and follow printing instructions listed there. 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies