TIEEP - Home - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Energy Education TIEEP Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program (TIEEP) Program Overview Building on earlier successes, the goal of the Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program (TIEEP) is to help Texas industries maintain their world-leading position through ever-improving energy intensity, reduced environmental impact, and enhanced social and economic development. TIEEP is sponsored by SECO, the Texas State Energy Conservation Office. × Dr. Alan Rossiter Executive Director, External Relations & Educational Program Development Dr. Alan Rossiter is UH Energy’s Executive Director, External Relations & Educational Program Development. Prior to joining UH Energy, Dr. Rossiter served in a variety of engineering and management positions with two major chemical companies, Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) in England, and Saudi Basic Industries (SABIC) in Saudi Arabia. He also worked for the industrial energy efficiency and waste minimization consulting firm Linnhoff March in the US, as a senior consultant, operations manager, and interim president. Later he ran his own indendent consulting firm. Dr. Rossiter obtained his bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral degrees in chemical engineering from the University of Cambridge. He is a licensed professional engineer (Texas). He is also the lead author of Energy Management and Efficiency for the Process Industries (AIChE/ Wiley, 2015), and the contributing editor for Chemical Processing’s award-winning monthly Energy Saver column. 713-743-1566 aprossit@central.uh.edu Office: Ezekiel W. Cullen, Room 124B Close TIEEP Program Leader: Dr. Alan Rossiter Executive Director, External Relations & Educational Program Development UH Energy CONTACT DR. ROSSITER Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Network (TIEEN) The Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Network (TIEEN) is a network of publicly supported industrial energy-efficiency organizations. The goal of the network is to enhance opportunities for effective collaboration by members through structured periodic communication. TIEEN was established by the State Energy Conservation Office (SECO), and administrative support is provided through the Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program (TIEEP), run by UH Energy. TIEEN Member Summary TIEEN Member Case Studies Texas PACE Authority R. J. Liebe Athletic Lettering Company VIEW R. J. Liebe Athletic Lettering Company (Spanish language) VIEW Texas Manufacturing Assistance Center (TMAC) E3: Food & Beverage Manufacturers VIEW Kisabeth Furniture VIEW Metro Custom Plastics VIEW NorTex Metal Finishing VIEW RECARO Aircraft Seating Americas, Inc. VIEW TIEEP Current Advisory Council Members × Pramod Bengani Operations Excellence Leader, Ascend Performance Materials Pramod Bengani is Operations Excellence Leader with significant experience and expertise in turning around manufacturing organizations, Utilities operations, Wastewater systems, and Water Conservation. For over 25 year, he has worked at Ascend Performance Material, Alvin site. Prior to that, he worked at Amoco Refinery (now Marathon) in Texas City. He has managed assets owned by multiple companies including Lyondell, Cyanco, Eastman, Novus, Huntsman, and Indorama. He currently serves as site Guest Relations Leader, and supports Ascend’s energy & water sustainability programs. Prior to TIEPP, Pramod has served on the board of Texas IOF since 2015, and has been a speaker at IOF sessions. Pramod is a Chemical Engineer by training, having completed his undergraduate studies from IIT in India. He did his Masters in Chemical Engineering from Texas A & M and MBA from University of Houston Clearlake. He is certified Lean 6-sigma Black Belt and resides in Pearland Texas. Close Pramod Bengani Operations Excellence Leader, Ascend Performance Materials MEMBER BIO × Jack Buehler Principal Engineer for Utilities, Energy and GHG, Shell (ret), Petrogenium, Buehler Consulting Jack recently retired from Shell as a Principal Engineer for Utilities, Energy/GHG Reduction, Renewables. Jack has a keen interest in helping companies with the Energy Transition and is currently doing consulting work with Petrogenium and Buehler Consulting. Jack has over 40 years of operations, engineering, and commercial experience with Shell, Union Carbide, and DOW Chemical including the last 15 years with Shell focused on energy efficiency, reliability, and GHG reduction. He has helped Shell identify Energy and GHG reduction opportunities for assets and new capital projects and was most recently supporting Renewable energy projects supporting the Energy Transition. He has broad experience working with Downstream Refining and Chemicals, Upstream, and LNG. Jack has conducted energy assessments at the major Shell North and South America refinery sites and supported JVs and 3rd party Energy Studies. Prior to joining Shell, he had with many roles including Operations management, site Utility optimization, start-up of three ethylene crackers, Process Engineering, Feedstock purchasing, and JV contract negotiations. Jack is member of AIChE and the Ethylene Producers Committee (EPC) and has chaired the EPC Technology session at the annual EPC conferences. He is active member of the Advisory Board of TIEEP (Texas Industries Energy Efficiency Program). Jack has a Bachelor’s Science in Chemical Engineering from the University of Delaware. Close Jack Buehler Principal Engineer for Utilities, Energy and GHG, Shell (ret), Petrogenium, Buehler Consulting MEMBER BIO × George Chen Energy Technology Engineer, Chevron George Chen is an Energy Technology Engineer working with Chevron Pipeline and Power in Houston. He graduated from Cal Poly Pomona with a B.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering. For the last 9 years George has worked with various Chevron facilities on identifying “no or low cost” opportunities with steam system optimization to help reduce energy consumption and GHG. He provides central support on steam system related issues at the Chevron Refineries as well as Lubricant and Oronite facilities. Previous to his current assignment, he worked 18 years as a Design Engineer and Project Engineer at the El Segundo Refinery; supporting Routine and Turnaround Maintenance work, small capital projects, and energy management efforts. George is a power user of the Visual MESA steam/utility optimization software that is utilized by Chevron U.S. Refineries. Close George Chen Energy Technology Engineer, Chevron MEMBER BIO × John Curry Engineering Consultant for Energy, Utilities & Combustion, Citgo John Curry is an Engineering Consultant for Energy, Utilities and Combustion Equipment for CITGO Petroleum. For the past 15 years John has developed best practices for Energy Programs to aid in day to day optimization programs at the CITGO Corpus Christ Refinery. These programs have helped the refinery reach and maintain first quartile Energy Intensity Index (EII) rating with Solomon and Associates since 2006 as well as achieve “Energy Star Certification” through the DOE the past few years. John is the corporate Fired Equipment SME and helps the other CITGO refinery sites with process heater troubleshooting, optimization and revamps. He has broad experience working with downstream refining, combustion equipment and process chemicals, upstream natural gas plants and midstream pipelines. Prior to joining CITGO, John worked for Conoco, Koch Pipeline, John Zink Company, and Betz Process Chemicals with many roles including Operations Engineering, Project Engineering and Management, and Technical Sales. John is a member of American Petroleum Institute Subcommittee for Heat Transfer Equipment developing industry standards and is the current Chairman of API Standard 535, “Burners for Fired Heaters”. He was a previous member of the Texas Industries of the Future Advisory Council out of which evolved the TIEEP Advisory Council. John has a B.S in Petroleum Engineering and an MBA from Texas Tech University. Close John Curry Engineering Consultant for Energy, Utilities & Combustion, Citgo MEMBER BIO × Gavin Dillingham Director for Clean Energy Policy, HARC Dr. Gavin Dillingham is Director for Clean Energy Policy and Director of the US DOE’s Combined Heat and Power TAP. Dr. Dillingham joined HARC in 2012 where he leads efforts focusing on policy and programs to improve the climate resilience of power infrastructure and built environment. He has worked climate related matters for the last twenty years in the private and public sector. This work includes working with city’s and states to identify, develop and implement appropriate policies and programs to support climate action planning and greenhouse gas mitigation. His current work includes developing climate risk mitigation strategies, climate action decision making and planning, and clean energy finance. He is the principal investor for multiple projects including DOEs Solar Energy Technology Office grant on solar+storage in low income neighborhoods and developing TX SECO’s Clean Energy Platform. He is working on a new HARC business venture to develop climate risk analytics to lead scenario planning for the energy sector. Education and Certification: Dr. Dillingham received his PhD in Political Science from Rice University in 2008. He holds the Climate Change Professional certifications from the Association of Climate Change Officers and the Sustainability Associate from the Institute for Sustainable Professionals. Close Gavin Dillingham Director for Clean Energy Policy, HARC MEMBER BIO × Carlos Gamarra Assistant Director, US DOE Combined Heat and Power TAP Dr. Carlos Gamarra is a Research Scientist at HARC and Assistant Director of the US DOE’s Combined Heat and Power TAP. Carlos joined HARC in 2017 where he leads applied research on energy system integration both at the community and building levels. He has over 14 years of experience in different research and engineering positions in the energy field. His research is focused on real-life applications of optimization and risk analysis techniques to energy systems integration with cost savings, energy efficiency, resiliency, and decarbonization goals. He leads multi-year DOE-funded work to provide technical assistance to potential Combined Heat and Power system users and to develop a public tool to support the identification of profitable opportunities to develop clean and resilient community energy systems (district energy and microgrids). Carlos holds a Ph.D. in Community Microgrids, an M.Sc. in Industrial Engineering, and a B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering. He is also a licensed Professional Engineer in Texas and a Certified Energy Manager. Close Carlos Gamarra Assistant Director, US DOE Combined Heat and Power TAP MEMBER BIO × Ian Glasgow Director of Project Development, International Alliance Group (IAG) Ian M. Glasgow is the Director of Project Development at International Alliance Group (IAG) with nearly 20 years of process engineering and process integration experience for the refining, syngas, and chemical industries. In his current role, he is responsible for project feasibility analysis, process scope development, and owner’s engineering support executed at IAG. Services include performing process/project feasibility studies, technology evaluation, site evaluation, 3rd party due diligence, project assurance, and owner’s engineering oversight. Ian has a broad understanding of various process technologies that allows him to support clients' business, economic, and operational objectives. Prior to IAG, Ian was a Senior Process Engineer at Wood Group Mustang for over 10 years, and a Research Associate at the Process Integration in the Pulp and Paper Industry Research Chair at Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal. Ian is an active member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) where he has Chaired the Executive Board Programming Committee, Fuels and Petrochemical Division, National Spring Meeting Topical of Refining, and Southwest Process Technology Conference. He is currently a Director on the Chemical Technology Operating Council. He also is on the Advisory Board for the Lamar University Midstream Research Center. He holds a BS degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati and MS degree in chemical engineering from Auburn University. Close Ian Glasgow Director of Project Development, International Alliance Group (IAG) MEMBER BIO × Frank Roberto Section Supervisor, Offsites and Utilities, Development, Planning and Design, ExxonMobil, retired Frank Roberto retired from ExxonMobil in 2021 as a manager in the Offsites and Utilities discipline in the Global Projects Company with over forty four years of service. In this role, he supported new project development, as well as existing operations worldwide, across the company. Frank joined Exxon Chemical Company in their Florham Park, New Jersey facility in 1976. Through a variety of engineering and technology assignments in the U.S. and Europe, he focused on energy and utility systems, including key roles in the development of several cogeneration projects and the global energy management system. He has supported existing operations of the company's facilities worldwide, been involved in several major project development activities for new facilities and has served as the global energy advisor for ExxonMobil Chemical Company, actively involved in the implementation and sustainment of the company's energy management system. Frank graduated with a Bachelor of Engineering degree from Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey where he also serves on the Schaefer School of Engineering and Science Advisory Board and is active in the Stevens Alumni Association. Close Frank Roberto Section Supervisor, Offsites and Utilities, Development, Planning and Design, ExxonMobil, retired MEMBER BIO × James Turner Executive Process Director, Fluor James Turner is an Executive Process Director in Fluor’s Sugar Land Office. He has more than 30 years of experience in process design for a wide range of projects in the refining and gas processing industry, in domestic and international locations. He has served in many roles, including Process Engineering on Projects, Office Management, Project Management and Engineering Management. He has published and presented many technical articles about process design and project execution, and holds patents for a combined hydrotreater process design. Active in several professional organizations, he is a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), and has served as Chair Elect, Chair, and Past Chair of the South Texas Section of AIChE. He has held several positions with AIChE, including member of the Executive Board Programming Committee, a Trustee on the AIChE Foundation Board, and several positions with the Fuels and Petrochemicals Division, including Chair of the Division, Director, Newsletter Editor, and Treasurer. In 2012 he received the Fuels and Petrochemicals Service Award for distinguished service to the division and industry. He is a graduate of Texas A&M University with a bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering. He serves on the Texas A&M Chemical Engineering Department Industry Advisory Council, and has been inducted into the Texas A&M Chemical Engineering Academy of Distinguished Alumni. Close James Turner Executive Process Director, Fluor MEMBER BIO David Dexter, The Dow Chemical Company David Reid, Celanese Babu Varughese, Shell Upcoming Events BROWSE EVENTS ARCHIVE Missed A Few Of Our Webinars? - Browse The Archive Now BROWSE ARCHIVE Newsletters FEBRUARY 2022 OCTOBER 2021 JUNE 2021 FEBRUARY 2021 NOVEMBER 2020 JULY 2020 FEBRUARY 2020 OCTOBER 2019 Subscribe To Our Newsletter We will be producing newsletters full of energy-saving nuggets at least three times per year, as well as periodic program updates and notices of upcoming events. To subscribe, please choose the #5 option "TIEEP Mailing List" on our UH Energy Mailing Form: SUBSCRIBE UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies