Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success UH Global Peace Corps Prep Program UH Global International Student and Scholar Services Learning Abroad Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Education Health Environment Agriculture Youth in Development Community Economic Development Additional Resources Events Contact Information For more information about the Peace Corps Prep program at the University of Houston, please contact the Peace Corps Prep Coordinator: Corissa Wandmacher Assistant Director, Global Initiatives UH Global E.W. Cullen Bldg. Suite 101 cawandmacher@uh.edu For more information about the Peace Corps application process or serving in the Peace Corps after graduation, please contact the local Peace Corps Recruiter: Chanel Jimenez Regional Recruiter, Houston Peace Corps Office of Volunteer Recruitment and Selection Returned Volunteer, Panama 2019-2020 cjimenez@peacecorps.gov Peace Corps Prep Program Established in 1961 by the U.S. Government, the Peace Corps is a highly respected and competitive volunteer program that sends U.S. citizens to serve in communities around the world. Peace Corps Prep (PC Prep) is a diversity-focused certificate program that enhances students’ undergraduate experience by preparing them for international development fieldwork and potential Peace Corps service. Students who participate in PC Prep take academic coursework and gain practical field experience related to one of the six sectors that align with Peace Corps volunteer assignments. Students also develop foreign language skills, enhance intercultural competence, and participate in professional and leadership development activities. Students who complete PC Prep are encouraged to apply for the Peace Corps. Although acceptance into the Peace Corps is not guaranteed, completing the PC Prep program increases your chance of being accepted. PC Prep can also help prepare students for other global opportunities, such as teaching abroad or the U.S. Foreign Service. For more information about serving in the Peace Corps after graduation, please visit: peacecorps.gov. Students interested in completing Peace Corps Prep should register below: Register here! Eligibility The PC Prep program is open to any UH undergraduate student who is not facing disciplinary action and is in good academic standing with a 2.0 GPA or above. Important Announcements: Important Program Update: Please click here to read about the Peace Corps Prep Program Update to the Intercultural Competency requirement (effective March 2021). COVID Accomodations: Please click here to read our Peace Corp Prep COVID-19 Program Accommodations Process Register and join the Listserv (at the bottom of the page). Do research about the Peace Corps. Choose one sector (list below) and region of interest to determine program requirements. Refer to the Student Guide and schedule an advising appointment if you need additional support. Complete the program requirements and compile documentation. Complete the Exit Checklist and email supporting documentation. Program Requirements Training and Experience in a Specific Work Sector Complete three courses that align with one of the six Peace Corps Prep sectors below. Education Health Environment Agriculture Youth in Development Community Economic Development Complete a minimum of 50 hours of field experience through volunteer, work, or internship positions in the same sector. Foreign Language Skills Latin America: Complete two intermediate Spanish courses (2000 level or higher). West Africa: Build proficiency in French or another Romance language by completing at least one intermediate course (2000 level or higher). Other regions: Students indicating an intention to serve anywhere else have no explicit language requirements, but are encouraged to take at least one foreign language class. Students may verify proficiency through a placement exam offered by Testing Services or by meeting with a UH faculty member from that language department. Intercultural Competence Complete three courses from our approved course list. Students may substitute one or two courses with a Learning Abroad experience if was in one of the Peace Corps Countries. Programs one week to a summer in length may substitute for one course and those lasting one semester may substitute for two courses. Students may substitute one of the above courses with a prolonged (40 hrs+) intercultural activity (such as interning or volunteering with a global organization or diverse populations). Depending on the activity, it may also count towards the field experience or leadership requirement. Professional and Leadership Development Students must complete and submit proof of all three activities below: Meet with a career counselor at Career Services to have your resume reviewed. Attend an interview workshop or schedule a mock interview with a career counselor at Career Services. Participate in one activity to develop significant leadership experience such as, leading a volunteer project or a student organization, organizing an event, etc. Additional Resources Advising Support Available Students may schedule an advising appointment by emailing us or scheduling via Navigate (under Support Services and UHGlobal). For questions, please contact us at uhglobal@uh.edu. Awards Students who complete the program will receive a Certificate of Completion from the Peace Corps. When applying to the Peace Corps, students can attach their Exit Checklist or Certificate to their Peace Corps application as proof of completion. Peace Corps Prep students are also encouraged to complete the Global Citizens Credential (GCC) as completing the above will qualify you to earn points towards the program and may further strengthen your Peace Corps application! Students who complete the GCC program receive an honor cord, certificate, and transcript notation. Sign Up for the Listserv! Listserv: PeaceCorpsPrep Your full name: Your e-mail address: Action: subscribe unsubscribe University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies