Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Visiting Students Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Visiting Students A Visiting Student (sometimes referred to as a Transient Student) can take undergraduate courses at the University of Houston, but is not seeking a degree. Students are getting a jumping start on their college coursework, are applying credit toward a degree at another institution, or may have already completed a Bachelor's Degree and are taking pre-requisite courses as a Post-Baccalaureate student. Admission as a Visiting Student is granted to: undergraduate students who are in good standing at their current or most recently attended college or university, and have a cumulative GPA of 2.0, OR high school graduates who have not earned college credit post high school graduation, and have a minimum unweighted cumulative GPA of a 3.5 visiting students that satisfy the English language requirement for University of Houston. Visiting students are not eligible for Financial Aid Steps to Apply Complete the Transient Application at ApplyTexas. Pay the non-refundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card or debit card. Meet the English language requirement for University of Houston. Have your most recent transcript sent to the University of Houston at the address below. For faster service, send your transcript to us electronically. Mailing Address: University of Houston Office of Undergraduate Admissions 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 Deadlines Term Open Date Application Due Supporting Information** Due Summer 2022* 8/1/2021 5/27/2022 5/27/2022 Fall 2022 8/1/2021 8/12/2022 8/12/2022 *If you are interested in taking courses for Summer Session 1, 2 and 3 please submit your application and necessary documents as indicated by your myUH To Do list by the Summer Priority Deadline. Applications and documents submitted for the Summer after the priority deadline will be considered for Summer Session 4. **Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Visiting to Degree Seeking Once admitted as a visiting student, no application is necessary for enrollment in future term sessions. Enrollment as a degree-seeking student requires a visiting student to complete the Degree Seeking Status Change Request Form, meet transfer admission requirements of the University of Houston (and their intended major), and submit all transcripts from previous colleges and universities. Admitted students will be required to go through New Student Orientation. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies