EV Fleet Adoption In Texas - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series Fleet Electrification in Texas: How Houston is Accelerating Fleet EV Adoption EVolve Houston is a coalition of sustainability-minded civic, business, and academic leaders who seek to accelerate clean transportation through electrification. In this context, EVolve Houston created a program to provide Fleet Electrification Advisory Consulting to five major local fleets, which include the City of Houston, Harris County and Fort Bend County. During the joint presentation, Chris and Yann will dive into EVolve Houston's mandate, the City of Houston’s fleet conversion goals, and highlight what both have accomplished to date in the region. Yann and Chris will then discuss the fleet EV assessment process and key results of EV feasibility from studies with the City of Houston. The discussion will cover: the percentage of electrifiable vehicles by category, costs (total cost of ownership), greenhouse gas emissions outcomes, optional depots, energy usage and load profiles, 5- and 10-year EV feasibility forecasts, and more. The speakers will finally highlight the implications for Houston, and the next steps that the fleets plan on executing. Guest Speakers Speaker: Chris George Executive Director, EVolve Houston As Executive Director of EVolve Houston, Chris leads efforts across fundraising, stakeholder and member engagement, and organizational development. With experience developing and closing complex strategic partnerships in the mobility space, Chris brings deep industry knowledge working alongside automotive OEMs, consumer fleets, utilities, government agencies, dealer groups, startups, and domestic and international governments. Prior to EVolve Houston, Chris led strategic partnerships and created the automotive industry’s largest third-party applications program at Vinli, a connected vehicle and data intelligence company. Prior to Vinli, he led the creation of an international ecosystem of developers and entrepreneurs at the intersection of sustainability and software (Cleanweb) with Bill Weinl of Facebook and Sunil Paul of Sidecar, et al. Chris spends his free time with his wife Sarah and kids Maren, William and Theodore, and serves as Board Member at Houston Parks Board, and Advisory Board for Da Camera, Houston’s longest-running jazz and chamber music organization. Speaker: Yann Kulp Co-Founder, eIQ Mobility As head of business development, Yann leads all customer engagement for eIQ Mobility, a recently acquired NextEra Energy Resources company. He is the former Head of North America e-Mobility strategy for Schneider Electric, and key architect of their global strategy. From 2012 to 2016, Yann led an internal startup at Schneider Electric to develop an IoT smart thermostat business. From 2009 to 2012, based in the Schneider Electric Paris HQ, Yann managed all marketing operations for the €1 billion+ controls business in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Prior to that, he spent 12 years with Legrand in US & European product management & sales roles. Yann lives in Chicago with his wife, and they are recent empty nesters. His is a board member of the Automotive Fleet & Leasing Association and serves on the board of the Jackalope Theater Company, based in the Edgewater neighborhood for Chicago. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies