Houston EV Consumer Survey Analysis - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series Houston EV Consumer Survey Analysis Electric Vehicles are gaining traction across the country as a viable tool in the world's stated goal of net-zero emissions by the year 2050. The benefits are plentiful in the form of long-term affordability, cleaner air, reduced emissions. However, are consumers ready to go all in? EVolve Houston Program Managers Katheryn Abou-Chakra and Harry Tenenbaum lead a pivotal discussion that takes a deeper dive into survey reports that explores people’s familiarity and prevailing attitudes toward electric vehicles, potential roadblocks that may stand in the way of Greater Houston's "30 by 30" objective regarding widespread EV adoption, and everything in between. This webinar is sure to bring a new understanding of how far we've come and how much further society has to go to achieve a key part of more sustainable and environmentally-beneficial mode of transportation and existence. Guest Speakers Speaker: Katheryn Abou-Chakra Program Manager, EVolve Houston Katheryn “Kate” Abou-Chakra is a Program Manager at Evolve Houston, where she focuses on industry research and analysis, project management, and marketing strategy. Katheryn brings advanced industry knowledge working alongside automotive manufacturers and consumer fleets, as well as deep subject-matter expertise in the energy, sustainability, and mobility industries. Speaker: Harry Tenenbaum Program Manager, EVolve Houston Harry is a Program Manager at Evolve Houston for the Commercialization & Infrastructure and Grants Programs. Within the Commercialization & Infrastructure, he leads Evolve’s Fleet Electrification Project, which investigates the electrification of local private and municipal light-duty fleet vehicles, and RISE Houston, which aims to educate the public, guide public and private EVSE investments, and investigate grid resiliency as the number of EVs on Houston’s roads grows. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies