Curriculum & Instruction - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Education Submit Close COE Employee Intranet Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Education About Dean's Welcome Faculty & Staff Directory News & Events Educator Preparation: Accreditation Support the College Houston is Home Office of Institutional Effectiveness Strategic Plan Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Prospective Students Graduate Recruitment Events Graduate Admissions UH at Sugar Land Programs Post-Baccalaureate (PB) Certificates & Certifications Financial Aid and Scholarships Degrees & Programs Departments Curriculum & Instruction Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences Student Services Financial Aid and Scholarships Certifications PEEPS Food Pantry Technology Services (CITE) Graduation Job Opportunities Advising (Undergraduate) Office of Undergraduate Studies Office of Graduate Studies Operating Procedures for Graduate Students Diversity and Support Research Study Participation Research Welcome from the Associate Dean for Research College of Education Office of Research Team Institutes & Centers Funded Grants and Projects Graduate & Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni Board Job Opportunities Giving Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Technology Services (CITE) Policies & Procedures MyCOE/Faculty & Staff Intranet Curriculum & Instruction Page contents: CUIN Quick Links Want to be a Teacher? Degrees & Programs News & Features Short Takes By the Numbers Contact Us EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION The Department of Curriculum & Instruction at the University of Houston College of Education prepares teachers, teacher leaders and other educators committed to student success and lifelong learning. We offer an award-winning teacher education program and specialized graduate programs to help professionals advance their careers. Specifically, we offer a B.S. in teaching and learning, an education minor, an M.Ed. in curriculum and instruction, an Ed.D. in professional leadership and a Ph.D. in curriculum and instruction. As part of a Tier One public research university in a diverse, dynamic city, we strive to end inequities in education in Houston and beyond. Join us! More about CUIN Program areas Apply now Important Dates for Graduate Students: Admissions & Comprehensive Exams CUIN Quick Links Chair's welcome Important dates Get certified Mission and vision Administrative team Program areas Academic calendar AccessUH Blackboard MyAdvisor (for graduate students) WANT TO BE A TEACHER? We offer the following undergraduate programs to help students become certified teachers in Texas: B.S. in teaching and learning Minor in education (with or without a certification option) We’re proud to be a three-time winner of the Distinguished Program in Teacher Education Award from the Association of Teacher Educators. We’ve also earned a commendation from the Texas Education Agency for “Innovative Educator Preparation,” and our program diversity and selectivity has been recognized by the National Council on Teacher Quality. Our students participate in a yearlong student-teaching internship with strong mentor support, giving them real world experience that sets them apart from their peers. UH Teacher Education Program: A Map for Students Get Certified: Learn more! SEEKING A GRADUATE DEGREE? We offer master’s and doctoral programs with various specializations to meet your career goals. Master's Programs M.Ed. in curriculum & instruction Art Bilingual/ESL education Early childhood Health science Learning, design & technology Math Reading & language arts Science Social studies STEM Teaching Doctoral Programs Ph.D. in curriculum & instruction Art Bilingual/ESL education Early childhood Learning, design & technology Math Reading & language arts Science Social studies Teaching Ed.D. in professional leadership Health Science Literacy Math Social studies NEWS & FEATURES Alumni, Community Partner Honored at Star Awards The College of Education celebrated its 2022 award winners for their leadership and service to the community. The winners included a college consultant, a Houston ISD principal, a literacy advocate and an accountant who provides global leadership training. Top Graduates Ready to Transform Education Thirteen top graduates share their goals and advice on how to earn 4.0 GPAs. “Do not be afraid to ask questions, seek help when needed, stay focused, be positive and believe in yourself,” said Larry Chan, who is graduating with a B.S. in teaching and learning. Professor to Transform Statistics Education Assistant Professor Travis Weiland received a nearly $1.2 million grant from the National Science Foundation to improve statistics education in middle and high schools by creating a supportive professional development program for teachers. Three-Time Coog Named Houston ISD Academic Chief Shawn Bird, who earned an M.Ed. and Ed.D. from the College and a B.A. in English, has returned home to help bolster academic performance in the state’s largest district. “You have to invest in the teacher,” he said. Alumni Couple Encourages Coogs to Give Back Kelly and Todd Thurber, co-chairs of the College’s Giving Day Campaign, are encouraging donations to support student scholarships. “Think about what this could do for our city,” said Kelly, a teacher for nearly three decades. “Every little bit helps.” Doctoral Student Wins International Teaching Award Meg Eubank won a 2022 Teacher of the Year Award for helping nearly 4,000 students from over 100 countries learn English throughout her career. She was recognized by the TESOL International Association in partnership with National Geographic Learning. UHCOE Online Programs Earn High Ranking The College’s online master’s degree programs were ranked 14th best in the nation on the 2022 list from U.S. News & World Report. “Our professors, rather than just lecturing at us for three hours, they incorporated breakout rooms. They still made it really engaging,” said recent M.Ed. graduate Elizabeth Rodriguez. Fall 2021 Graduates Recognized with Top Honors Among the approximately 360 graduates are three first-generation college students and future teachers who maintained 4.0 GPAs. “I am immensely proud of the accomplishments of the class of 2021,” said College of Education Dean Bob McPherson. Assistant Professor Inspires Students to be ‘Math People’ Clinical Assistant Professor Justin Burris prepares teacher candidates to become elementary and middle school teachers who empower children to enjoy math. His passion for education earned him a 2021 UH Teaching Excellence Award. M.Ed. Alumna Earns Prestigious Fulbright Grant Parker Carwile, who earned a master’s in curriculum and instruction in 2019, will teach English and act as a cultural ambassador in South Korea. “I feel like if we can understand each other more, we can help build each other up,” she said. Despite Challenges 2021 Grads Made their Mark Read about four undergraduate students who maintained 4.0 GPAs while showing strength and flexibility during the global pandemic. “The time at UH prepared me with significant experience for the job market,” said health major Dalia Hatem De Khattar. M.Ed. Training Helped Surgical Educator Amid COVID Dr. Karen Dickinson teamed up with Clinical Associate Professor Susie Gronseth to publish an article in the Journal of Surgical Education about deploying virtual instructional strategies. “I cannot say enough good things about UH,” Dickinson said. Museum Leader Wins Distinguished Alumni Award Cheryl McCallum is positively impacting millions of children’s lives as the director of education at Children’s Museum Houston. “Our College and our University should be proud to call her an alumna,” UH Moores Professor and Department Chair Cathy Horn said. Professor Wins Early Career Achievement Award Susie Gronseth, a clinical associate professor of learning, design and technology, received the 2020 Early Career Achievement Award from the School of Education at Indiana University for her global impact in the field of instructional design. SHORT TAKES More news briefs Two Department of Curriculum & Instruction faculty members were honored for their contributions to the second year of UH’s “50-in-5” research initiative. The follow professors were recognized for major grants: Conra Gist and Amber Thompson. At least 10 alumni have won Teacher of the Year (TOY) awards from their schools for 2021-22: Vanessa Cerrato, Houston ISD’s Eliot Elementary (TOY); Gilbert Garza, Houston ISD’s Pugh Elementary (Beginning TOY); Sandra Gonzalez, Houston ISD’s Cornelius Elementary (Beginning TOY); Adrienne Laygan, Humble ISD’s Fall Creek Elementary (TOY); Michele Lytle, Fort Bend ISD’s Thurgood Marshall High School (TOY); Pamela Mandujano-Gómez, Houston ISD’s Jefferson Elementary (New TOY); Elizabeth Matehuala, Houston ISD’s Pugh Elementary (TOY and the Houston Area Association for Bilingual Educators TOY); Reenee Palacios, Alief ISD’s Collins Elementary (TOY); Sandra Ramirez, Aldine ISD’s Orange Grove Elementary (Rookie TOY) and Vanessa Trejo, Houston ISD's Rucker Elementary (TOY). David Graham, who earned a master’s in curriculum and instruction in 2014, won Administrator of the Year at Texas City High School in Texas City ISD. This is the second consecutive year he has won the honor. Alex Jones, who earned a B.S. in teaching and learning in 2006 and an M.Ed. in curriculum and instruction in 2007, has accepted a position of science specialist for the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. Adrienne Aul, who earned an Ed.D. in professional leadership – mathematics education in 2020, has been named the new national math content coach for IDEA Public Schools focused on curriculum across Texas, Louisiana and Florida. BY THE NUMBERS 1,100+CUIN students 92%Overall passing rate on certification exams (TEA) 1.5MHouston-area K-12 students 1stFounding member of US PREP reform coalition 3-Time WinnerTeacher Education “Distinguished Program” (ATE) CONTACT US Department of Curriculum & Instruction University of Houston College of Education 3657 Cullen Blvd. Farish Hall, Suite 236 Houston, Texas 77204-5029 Department phone: 713-743-0958 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies