Contact Us - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Contact Us Contact Us Our info × Virtual admissions advising appointments are now available. Schedule an appointment here. Phone: (713) 743-1010, option 4 Email: admissions@uh.edu Mailing Address University of Houston Office of Admissions 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 Virtual Admissions Advising Want to speak to an advisor but can't make it to campus? We now offer virtual advising and have staff on stand-by to support any additional questions. If you'd like to talk to an admissions counselor for admissions support, schedule an appointment online. Please note that admissions counselors do not provide support with course selection or registration. Schedule a Virtual Advising Appointment Request Information Please click the link below to request more information about attending the University of Houston. Request more information Please note that the link above is intended for inquiries related to Undergraduate Admissions. You may also contact the Graduate School or contact the School of Law for information about their admissions procedures. Social Media Have a question or just want to get connected with other Coogs? Find us on social! Twitter Instagram Reddit TikTok Coogcast Come see us Houston, TX To mitigate the risk of COVID-19 and to practice social distancing, Welcome Center Admissions staff will be providing limited services in-person. To speak to an admissions representative, please contact us via email at admissions@uh.edu, by phone at (713)-743-1010 (option 4), or through a virtual appointment. Admissions Brochures Want to learn more about admission requirements? Check out our admissions brochures. Freshman Students Transfer Students International Freshman Students International Transfer Students Title IX Contact Information The University of Houston is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action institution. Minorities, women, veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Additionally, the University prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Toni Sanchez Benoit serves as Title IX Coordinator for the University of Houston. 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 eos@uh.edu 713-743-8835 Unsubscribe If you're no longer interested in hearing from the University of Houston, please follow the steps below. Prospective Students If you don't have an application on file, you can unsubscribe by selecting the "Contact Preferences" link at the bottom of your last official UH communication. If you need assistance, call us at (713) 743-1010, option 4. Applicants & Admitted Students If you have an application on file, you can unsubscribe by completing the form linked below. If you've already been admitted, please check your myUH account for any outstanding fees. Applicant & Admitted Student Unsubscribe Form University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies