Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land About Us Public Art at UH at Sugar Land UH at Sugar Land Diversity Strategic Planning Partnerships Technology Building About Us Directions to Campus History of UH at Sugar Land Public Art at UH at Sugar Land Students Faculty & Staff Visitors Campus Services Degrees News Public Art at Sugar Land The University of Houston at Sugar Land is home to several pieces from the Public Art of the University of Houston System. Also on campus is the Diversity Over Division Mural. The mural is located outside Brazos Hall and the original pieces are displayed on the second floor of the Albert & Mamie George Building. College of Technology Building Suite of 10 Prints (1995) By Charles Wiese A set of 10 iris digital ink prints. The prints were made with an Iris printer, a large-format color inkjet printer introduced by Iris Graphics. Iris printers were among the first able to produce high-quality output. These pieces are located on the second floor of the College of Technology Building. Previous Next Suite of 10 Digital Photographs (1995) By Donna Reidland Bourret A set of 10 chromogenic prints. Chromogenic prints, also know as type C photographs or C-type prints, can be made from a digital image via chromogenic process. These pieces are located on the second floor of the College of Technology Building. Previous Next Too Much To Say (2014) By Lance Letscher Texas artist Lance Letscher searches thrift stores, junk shops, and used bookstores for old ledgers, notebooks, diaries, handwritten lists, letters, and recipe cards as material for his meticulous collages. His collages reference memory, personal histories and ultimately create disjointed narratives in the process. This collage on masonite is located on the first floor of the College of Technology Building. Previous Next Albert & Mamie George Building Brazos Trace (2006) By Liz Ward, Rob Ziebel and Anthony Thompson Shumate The inspiration for Brazos Trace is the Brazos River, a major geographical feature adjacent to the campus. The curving panels of the piece create the visual effect of a river descending through the atrium space. The river-like panels are patterned with images relating to the cultural and natural history of the Brazos. This piece is located in the atrium of the Albert & Mamie George Building. Previous Next Brazos Hall Pastoral (2011) By Lin Emery This 15-foot-tall kinetic sculpture is made out of polished aluminum and stainless steel and moves in the wind. It utilizes a sophisticated system of bearings to ensure smooth and random movement within the individual parts. The leaf-like forms seem to disappear in the sky and will reflect the surrounding brick, concrete and trees, while at the same time reflecting the sun’s light against the ground and building. The sculpture stands outside the north-east entrance of Brazos Hall. Previous Next Group of 14 Torch Drawings (2001-2012) By Helen Altman This collection of drawings were made by using a blow torch as a drawing tool, scorching lines into paper, creating soft and remarkably detailed images of Texas animals. These pieces are located on the first floor of Brazos Hall. Previous Next 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies