Webinar Series - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search CENTER FOR CARBON MANAGEMENT IN ENERGY Home About Us Leadership Key Strengths & Capabilities Technology & Innovation Policy Law Regulations Business Transformation & New Ecosystems Education For Societal Awareness Industry Founders Industry Partnerships Core Faculty Contact Us Research Oil & Gas Petrochemicals Power Faculty Projects Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the US Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action News Events Upcoming Events Events Archive Resources Video Resources White Papers CCUS Consortia with SSEB Webinar Series Upcoming Webinars Webinar Archive Newsletter Member Login UH ENERGY Webinar Series The University Of Houston’s Center for Carbon Management in Energy (CCME) is delighted to announce an ongoing webinar series to address a number of key topical areas and issues facing the energy industry. Carbon Management has been identified as a key necessity for the energy transition and for real sustainability for our future. The CCME holds a strategic anchor belief that “true” sustainability requires that the energy produced and consumed must be not only environmentally responsible but also reliable and affordable as well. Carbon Management has any number of strategic thrusts be they engineering and science, business, legal, policy and regulatory impact. We will explore a series of issues that face carbon management strategies in terms of geopolitics, project development, legal frameworks and any number of challenges and opportunities facing the energy marketplace. The recent global pandemic will surely impact short and longer term actions – as will the global economic conditions we face. Join us and our world leading subject matter experts in our CCME both from the university and the marketplace. Upcoming Webinar Schedule BROWSE WEBINAR ARCHIVE Missed A Few Of Our Webinars? - Browse The Archive Now BROWSE ARCHIVE UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies