Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home News & Events / U.S. News & World Report Ranks UH Among Best Colleges for 2021 News & Events News Releases Emergency Communications Calendars & Events UH News Mailing Lists & Subscriptions U.S. News & World Report Ranks UH Among Best Colleges for 2021 UH Makes Lists for Tops in Social Mobility, Top Public Schools and Best Value Schools By Sara Tubbs 713-743-4248 September 15, 2020 The University of Houston has been ranked among the best in the United States in a number of categories, according to the U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges 2021 rankings. The University of Houston has been ranked among the best in the United States in a number of categories, according to the U.S. News and World Report Best Colleges 2021 rankings. UH earned a top 50 ranking as a “Top Performer for Social Mobility,” and also landed on the lists for “Top Public Schools” and “Best Value Schools.” “Once again, the University of Houston has proven itself to be a major player among top ranked universities in the country,” said UH President Renu Khator. “The recognition that UH is fulfilling its mission of value and accessibility by producing successful graduates who are upwardly mobile, no matter the economic disadvantages they may have faced, is particularly meaningful.” UH improved its overall ranking among top National Universities by nine spots, to No. 176. Schools in this category offer a full range of undergraduate, master’s and doctoral programs and are committed to producing groundbreaking research. Individual undergraduate programs recognized include the Cullen College of Engineering (No. 79), the C.T. Bauer College of Business (No. 81 overall, No. 58 in accounting) and the Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship, which was recognized as a top 15-ranked program. “Having our programs recognized nationally year after year is a testament to the hard work of our faculty and staff to ensure student success at all levels,” said Paula Myrick Short, UH senior vice president for academic affairs and provost. “Our consistent high rankings also speak to the academic excellence that are a hallmark of our programs.” In this year’s rankings, which were released Sept. 14, USNWR examined 1,452 bachelor’s degree-granting institutions on 17 measures of academic quality, including graduation and retention rates and academic reputation. Rankings data predates the coronavirus pandemic, so the pandemic’s impact on higher education is not reflected in this year’s rankings. 2021 U.S. News rankings and lists for UH include: 13 – Best Undergraduate Entrepreneurship Program 48 – Top Performers of Social Mobility 58 – Best Undergraduate Accounting 79 – Best Undergraduate Engineering 81 – Best Undergraduate Business Programs 87 – Top Public Schools 104 – Best Undergraduate Computer Science Programs 106 – Best Value Schools 128 – Best Colleges for Veterans Listed – Least Debt of National Universities Listed – Campus Ethnic Diversity Listed – A+ Schools for B Students U.S. News & World Report rankings typically rely upon information schools report directly on their applications regarding tuition, financial aid policies, student body demographics and campus life. For 2021, the publication added new indicators to its overall methodology, including the average amount of accumulated federal loan debt among full-time student borrowers at graduation and the percentage of full-time students in a graduating class who took out federal loans. UH ranked No. 60 for Graduate Indebtedness in the Best National Universities category. Changes to the ranking in 2021 include giving less weight to SAT/ACT scores, high school class standing and alumni giving rates. New to the rankings is recognition for schools that excel in other key areas. UH is listed among schools that graduate bachelor’s students with the Least Debt among National Universities, schools with the greatest Campus Ethnic Diversity and A+ Schools for B Students. To see where other universities ranked and learn more about the methodology used, visit the U.S. News & World Report website. Categories: Notices, Student Success, Top Stories University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies