Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Rules, Citations and Appeals Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Rules and Regulations Parking rules and regulations are in effect 24 hours a day, seven days a week, including holidays. There is no free parking on the University of Houston campus. This includes the UH Technology Bridge and the University of Houston at Sugar Land. A valid UH parking permit is required. If a vehicle does not have a permit, then paid visitor parking should be used. There are certain lots on campus that prohibit overnight parking between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. Violators will be towed on first violation. Parking Permits Permits must be properly displayed by being placed on the rearview mirror with the front facing out. The permit must not be obstructed or partially obstructed in any way. Permits cannot be shared among individuals. Only the permit owner can use it. Permits can only be used with vehicles that are registered to it. A permit holder can have up to three vehicles registered to their permit, but they must be vehicles that will be used by the permit holder and not another individual. The only permits that can be shared among individuals are COAST carpool permits. Parking and Transportation Services uses license plate reader technology. Please make sure that the license plate number of the vehicle(s) registered to the permit is correctly entered into your myParking account. Parking permits cannot be transferred between individuals. A permit holder may not sell his/her permit to another individual. The permit holder is responsible for any and all citations issued to the permit. You must park where your parking permit designates if it is Monday-Thursday between 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. If it is after 3 p.m. Monday-Thursday, or any time on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, a valid UH parking permit can be used to park in any unrestricted space in any ungated zone parking lot on campus. Restricted spaces include reserved, disabled, unloading and metered. Anyone who parks in a metered space must pay the fee, even if they have a valid UH parking permit. Use of fraudulant and/or counterfeit parking permits will result in students being referred to the Dean of Students. On-Campus Apartments Residents of any of the on-campus apartment complexes (Bayou Oaks, Cullen Oaks and Cambridge Oaks) can park behind the on-property gated lots with any valid UH parking permit. This does NOT include the evening-weekend permit, which cannot be used until 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. Residents must also display an apartment decal on their front windshield issued at no charge from their leasing office in order to park in the gated lots on property. Please consult the on-campus apartments parking page for more details and information. Loading Zones Loading zones are restricted to vehicles loading and unloading. Vehicles must be moved when finished. All loading zones have a maximum twenty (20) minute time limit. Loading zones are clearly designated by green curbs and/or signage. Gated Lots Gated lots are strictly for use of permit holders assigned to a particular lot. A malfunctioning gate arm is not an excuse for parking in a gated lot without the correct permit. Some gated lots have reserved areas within them. These areas are strictly for use by reserved permit-holders for that lot. Violations University parking rules and regulations are enforced 24 hours a day, seven days a week, including weekends and university holidays. Violators of the parking rules and regulations may receive citations, immobilizations and/or towing. The university reserves the right to tow any illegally parked vehicle or vehicles with excessive citations. Habitual or flagrant disregard of the rules and regulations is grounds for suspension of campus parking privileges or stronger action by the university. The registered driver and/or permit holder is responsible for any parking citations issued to a vehicle displaying their parking permit. In the event the vehicle is not registered with Parking and Transportation Services, motor vehicle records from the Texas Department of Transportation will be used to determine responsibility. D1 violations have a $25 fine. D1 violations include: Permit obstructed/incorrectly displayed Overtime at parking meter Parked with incorrect permit Overtime in loading zone Valid permit not displayed License plate not registered with Parking and Transportation Must display valid UH permit with runner permit Blocking ADA ramp Blocking dumpster Overtime with runner permit Need UH ADA permit Expired permit D2 violations have a $50 fine. D2 violations include: Not parked in a designated space On sidewalk, curb or in construction area Parked or blocking drive lane Blocking sidewalk, crosswalk or grass Parked in two or more spaces Improper garage/lot entry/exit Disobeying signs or barriers D3 violations have a $75 fine. These involve the immobilization of a vehicle. D4 violations have a $100 fine. D4 violations include: Parked in a restricted reserved space/lot Parked in fire zone/by fire hydrant Parked in a tow-away zone Damage to parking facility/equipment Altered/forged or the use of lost/stolen UH parking decals/permits D5 violations have a $250 fine and involve parking in an ADA space. Escalation Policy The university reserves the right to tow any illegally parked vehicle or vehicles with excessive citations. The following escalation policy is for repeat offenders per academic term: First Offense: Citation only Second Offense: Orange sticker may be applied to vehicle, and citation Third Offense: Vehicle may be immobilized or towed, and citation Fourth and Subsequent Offense(s): Tow and citation Academic term definitions are as followed: Fall: First day of fall classes thru Dec. 31 Spring: Jan. 1 thru last day of spring classes Summer: Last day of spring classes thru first day of fall classes Appeals The parking citations appeals process is intended to provide an objective process to review a citation. There must be substantial and valid evidence that the parking violation was not committed or that it occurred due to circumstances beyond the appellant’s control. For more information about the appeals process, visit the appeals web page. Citation Non-Payment Citations not paid within 10 calendar days of the date of issuance or the appeal decision date are doubled and transferred to the Bursar’s Office for collection via student financial accounts, to include any applicable late fees applied by the Bursar. Faculty/staff unpaid citations are transferred to the employee financial account. Ownership of vehicles not registered with UH Parking and Transportation Services will be determined via Department of Motor Vehicle records. Upon owner identification, citations that remain unpaid will be doubled and transferred to a collection agency, and the amount due will be adjusted to include a 25% collection fee. Immobilization For habitual offenders or at the discretion of Parking and Transportation, an immobilization device may be used in lieu of towing. The device is a light-weight device equipped with GPS that is attached to the windshield using two large suction cups, preventing the vehicle from being driven by blocking the view of anyone sitting in the driver’s seat. For more details, visit the immobilization page. Towing The university reserves the right to tow any illegally parked vehicle or vehicles with excessive citations. Vehicles are towed to an on-campus tow lot located at 4224 Elgin St., adjacent to the Elgin Street Garage. In addition to the $125 tow fee, a $5 per day storage fee will be assessed commencing the second day the vehicle is maintained in the tow lot. Visit the towing page for more information. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations EV charging station spaces should only be occupied by electric vehicles that are charging. Vehicles should not occupy an EV charging station space for more than four hours. Those that go over that time are subjection to receiving a citation. For more details, visit the EV charging station page. Bicycles All bicycles used and/or kept on campus must be registered with the University. CITATION PAYMENTS Citations may be paid online via your parking account or in person at the parking office located in University Lofts (by appointment only), or by mailing a check or money order payable to The University of Houston. Visitors may pay citations by clicking here. Payments may be mailed to: University of Houston Parking and Transportation Services 4224 Elgin St., Building E Houston, TX 77204-2007. DO NOT ENCLOSE CASH. Fees not paid within 10 calendar days are doubled and transferred to the Bursar's office for collection. If the fee has transferred to the Bursar's office, this is how to pay it: Students Faculty-staff University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies