UH Health - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Health Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Health Page contents: Patient Services Health Programs Health Research UH Health in the News What is UH Health? UH Health is the platform to integrate the university’s mission and values focused on identifying and responding to the economic, social and cultural issues affecting health in Houston, Texas, and beyond. $939.1 MILLION UH Health Greater Houston Impact With nine of its 16 colleges involved with UH Health and more than one in every four students headed for a health care-related degree, small wonder the economic impact is very healthy itself, accounting for $939 million annually in Greater Houston. View UH Health Economic Impact Analysis Patient Services The University of Houston offers affordable community health care for UH students, faculty and staff as well as the surrounding community. Our clinics offer low cost options and have flexible options for those who are uninsured. Our location is convenient and provides a general medical service plus several specialty clinics as well as optical services, substance abuse programs, psychological services and more. For appointments or more information, click on the area of interest below. University Eye Institute The University Eye Institute offers a wide range of services and quality care by trained optometrists and ophthalmologists. Open to the public. Essilor Optical Services Essilor Optical Services provides quality prescription eyewear at affordable prices. The Surgery Center Our physicians and staff treat many eye conditions to enhance the optical health of our patients. The Center for Sight Enhancement This center provides low vision rehabilitation to people of all ages with cutting-edge technology. Clinical Services Several assessment and treatment services are offered to the public by certified professionals through UH clinical services. Psychology Research and Services Center The services offered operate within the clinical psychology doctoral program and offer affordable services to Houston and the UH community as one of the leading mental health providers in the Houston area. ADAPT UH-ADAPT is a clinical research center in the department of psychology that focuses on assessing and treating teens who struggle with emotional and relationship difficulties. Our research focuses on improving evidence-based treatments for adolescents. Center for Couples Therapy The UH Center for Couples Therapy provides relationship services for couples. University Speech, Language, and Hearing Clinic Offers services to infants, children, and adults with speech, language and hearing impairments and is staffed by professionals certified in the fields of audiology and speech-language pathology. Sleep and Anxiety Center of Houston A clinical research center dedicated to examining ways in which people manage and overcome their anxiety, fears, and sleep-related problems. SACH offers research opportunities and low-cost clinical services for individuals and families. Substance Use The Anxiety and Health Research Lab/Substance Use Treatment Clinic is a research laboratory and clinic designed for the study, assessment, prevention and treatment of anxiety-substance use disorders. UH Student Health Center The on-campus Student Health Center provides primary care services as well as specialty clinics. Available only to UH students. Medical Services Low cost services are offered to currently enrolled students that includes treatment for both short-term and long-term medical problems and injuries. Campus Pharmacy The UH Campus Pharmacy offers prescription and over the counter services to currently enrolled students, faculty and staff. Dental Services The Dental Office provides affordable preventative and general restorative dental procedure to current UH students, faculty and staff. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) CAPS promotes the awareness and access to mental health services to foster UH students, faculty and staff through self-discovery, learning and interpersonal engagement. Available only to UH students, faculty and staff. Health Programs Available at UH Download comprehensive guidebook of health-related programs. College of Education Psychological, Health, and Learning Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences Communication Sciences & Disorders Health and Human Performance Psychology Sociology College of Medicine College of Nursing RN to BSN Second Degree BSN Master of Science in Nursing College of Optometry Basic Sciences Doctor of Optometry Graduate Program in Physiological Optics/Vision Science (M/S and/or PhD College of Pharmacy Pharmacy Doctorate (Pharm.D.) Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Sciences Concentration in Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy Concentration in Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics or Pharmacology Pharm.D./MBA Pharm.D./Ph.D. Concentration in Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmaceutics or Pharmacology Ph.D./M.A. in Applied Economics Concentration in Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy Pharmacy Residency and Fellowship Programs Graduate College of Social Work MSW Program Field Education Ph.D. Program in Social Work Dual Degree programs Nonprofit Leadership Allianace The Honors College Medicine & Society Program Honors Program in the Health Professions Law Center Health Law & Policy Institute Health Research at UH UH conducts innovative research that addresses biological, behavioral, psychological, and social determinants of health affecting Houston and beyond. Through equitable partnerships with community stakeholders, elected officials, and university-wide research initiatives (see HEALTH Research Institute & TORC), we are taking a multilevel approach (e.g., individual, interpersonal, community, societal) to developing new technologies, discovering novel treatments, and disseminating prevention strategies aimed at increasing the quality and length of life for all. HEALTH Research Institute The Helping Everyone Achieve a LifeTime of Health (HEALTH) Research Institute leverages an interdisciplinary group of researchers at UH to advance science that addresses the health needs of the Houston community and beyond. More specifically, our primary mission is to conduct cutting-edge research that informs novel prevention and intervention strategies that mitigate a broad range of health disparities (e.g., addiction, cancer, diabetes, mental health, social determinants, etc.). Our equitable partnerships with community stakeholders will inform a growing public health challenge through bench science, multi-site cooperative trials, public health initiatives, and empowering dissemination activities that are embedded in the cultural fabric of the communities we serve. Humana Institute Humana and the University of Houston have launched a strategic partnership to train future health care leaders with a focus on providing holistic, collaborative care to improve health outcomes. The Humana Integrated Health System Sciences Institute at the University of Houston (Humana Institute) fosters interprofessional team-based care in the colleges of medicine, nursing, optometry, pharmacy and social work. This collaboration will graduate health care professionals who are skilled in advancing population and community health and have a propensity for working with the underserved. TORC The mission of the Texas Obesity Research Center (TORC) is to conduct basic and applied research in obesity prevention, treatment and control. TORC will educate students in an interdisciplinary approach to topics related to obesity and its comorbidities. TORC will enhance collaborations within and among the University community, health professionals, and social agencies on projects related to obesity and centralize efforts to obtain funding from foundations, industry, and the federal government. UH Health Research in Academic Units Innovative health research at UH is also being led by interdisciplinary research teams housed in the College of Education (Psychological, Health, & Learning Sciences), College of Engineering (Biomedical Engineering), College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (Health & Human Performance; Psychology), College of Medicine, College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (Biology & Biochemistry; Chemistry), College of Nursing, College of Optometry, College of Pharmacy, Graduate College of Social Work, and the Law Center. Health Programs Guidebook UH Health News Stem Cell Cloning Experts Unraveling Cystic Fibrosis May 24, 2022 Fertitta Family Pledges $50 Million to UH College of Medicine to Propel ‘New Era of Health Care’ May 19, 2022 Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information May 18, 2022 Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification May 16, 2022 Air Pollution Dropped During Pandemic Lockdowns May 09, 2022 Advancing Diagnostics for Lupus Nephritis May 04, 2022 View The Archive UH Health in the News Houston Chronicle Tilman Fertitta donating $50 million to UH medical school, which will be renamed after him May 19, 2022 KPRC, NBC 2 ‘New Era of Health Care’: UH College of Medicine renamed in honor of Tilman Fertitta after $50M pledge May 19, 2022 KRIV, FOX 26 UH honoring nurses, encouraging aspiring students for National Nurses Week May 11, 2022 Daily Mail Children grow faster during the school year: Year 1s gain extra 4mm between September and April, study finds May 11, 2022 Houston Chronicle Sponsor: Innovative nursing education leads to high-level practitioners, administrators May 8, 2022 The Verge Mental health app privacy language opens up holes for user data May 4, 2022 View The Archive Learn more about the exciting opportunities that await you at the UH College of Nursing.Watch Now University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies