Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost University Success Houston GPS Houston GPS About CCA Alliance Profile People MOU News Meetings and Events GPS Transfer Contact Information For questions regarding Houston GPS at UH, please contact Nicole McDonald at nlmcdonald2@uh.edu. Houston Guided Pathways to Success × Houston GPS Equity Initiative Announcement A groundbreaking collaboration between community colleges and universities aims to close equity gaps in student success. Read more. “Navigating the complicated path through college is a difficult task for far too many. All students need step-by-step roadmaps and intrusive guidance to on-time completion — saving time and money — and significantly boosting their success.” Guided Pathways to Success (GPS): Boosting College Completion, Complete College America, Winter 2012 Houston is one of the largest and most rapidly growing metro regions in the U.S. and regional gross product has been growing faster than most of the largest metro regions. However, its rate of postsecondary attainment trails the national average for metro regions. Among the 20 largest metros in the U.S., Houston ranks 19th in educational attainment. Because higher education completion rates in Houston area colleges and universities slightly lag behind the national average, the trend of change does not appear positive and slow growth in postsecondary attainment threatens economic growth in the region. On the other hand, postsecondary participation in Houston is on the increase; colleges have expanded their reach and enrollment has grown rapidly. If institutions can now increase their completion rates, they can drive significant increases in overall attainment rates in the region. Houston GPS is an integrated system of cohesive, interdependent strategies that are designed to increase and accelerate student completion and smooth two-year to four-year college transfer while improving educational quality for Houston area students. Houston GPS Goals: Provide a timely, structured, and seamless pathway for students transferring from Gulf Coast-Houston area community colleges to Houston area universities. Boost postsecondary attainment, and increase completion and successful transfer rates in the Houston region. Build a culture of timely graduation that will save everyone time and money, most importantly our students. The University of Houston is leading the initiative in a collaborative partnership with the following four and two year institutions: Four-year institutions: Two-year institutions: University of Houston Alvin Community College University of Houston-Clear Lake College of the Mainland University of Houston-Downtown Galveston College University of Houston-Victoria Houston Community College System Prairie View A&M University Lone Star College System Texas Southern University San Jacinto College District Wharton County Junior College University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies