Degree Programs - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Degrees Degree Programs CoT Transition to Sugar Land Following the vision of University of Houston President Renu Khator, the College of Technology is beginning its journey to Sugar Land. The move won’t occur all at once. The expectation is that all programs & departments will be in Sugar Land by 2025. See the timeline for programs/classes, FAQs and more > DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. LET’S START HERE. Your success begins on the road to your higher education goals. The University of Houston at Sugar Land offers undergraduate and graduate programs. Request Information > Connect with an Advisor > Learn more about UH at Sugar Land UNDERGRADUATE DEGREES UH at Sugar Land offers 10 undergraduate majors from five UH colleges. Make your choice following completion of the standard Core Curriculum. Check out our inaugural programs in Digital Media and Nursing. You’ll share in all Cougar traditions, including Commencement and wearing red on Fridays! Advisors for specific programs and colleges are available to help you with all academic advising needs. View Full List of Programs > View Guide to Undergraduate Programs offered at UH at Sugar Land > GRADUATE DEGREES UH at Sugar Land offers 11 graduate and doctoral programs. Working alongside Tier One faculty, you’ll prepare for dynamic careers. Advisors for specific programs and colleges are available to help you with all academic advising needs. View Full List of Programs > NEED HELP? The University of Houston at Sugar Land is located at the intersection of US-59 south and University Boulevard, just northeast of the Brazos River, one exit south of Sweetwater/First Colony Boulevard. We offer large state-of-the-art classrooms, computer and multimedia laboratories, as well as a campus library and bookstore. Explore our full list of campus services and student resources below. CAMPUS INFORMATION Building Hours Parking Services Transportation Services Directions to Campus Library Bookstore Get a Snack INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Contact IT Service Desk Connect to WiFi Learn about Computing Services Computer Labs MEDIA RELATIONS Emergency Notifications Momentum Newsletter The Cougar UH Today UH Magazine OTHER Contact Security Request a Security Escort 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies