Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Parking permits Permit options Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Parking Permits The permit prices reflect the full cost of the 2021-2022 permits. Prices will decline (prorate) weekly over the course of the academic year. 2021-2022 Permit Type Student Price Garage $750 Garage (semester) $450 Zones $445 Disabled $445 Evening/Weekend (This permit cannot be used on campus until after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday in ungated zone lots) $140 Motorcycle $90 UH at Sugar Land (including Disabled) $295 WCJC (including Disabled) $295 Parking permits are sold on a first-come, first-served basis based on availability. (Empty spaces in specific lots does not necessarily mean that permits for that location are available.) University of Houston students, faculty and staff can purchase permits online by following these simple steps. The 2021-2022 annual permits are valid through Aug. 14, 2022. Click here for more details on where your permit allows you to park. To be eligible for the University of Houston at Sugar Land permit, a student must be taking a majority of their semester credit hours in Sugar Land. 2022-2023 NEW STUDENT PERMITS Permit Type Student Price Tuesday/Thursday Garage (annual) NON-REFUNDABLE $325 Mon/Wed/Fri Garage (annual) NON-REFUNDABLE $425 Zone H (Tech Bridge) Covered (annual) $465 Garage Hopper add-on (annual) Can be added to purchase of an annual garage permit to allow for parking in multiple garages: Stadium, Elgin Street, East and University Gateway (not applicable to the Welcome Center Garage) Extra $100 added to cost of garage permit 2022-2023 ANNUAL STUDENT PERMITS Permit Type Student Price Zone $455 Garage $770 Disabled $455 Evening-Weekend NON-REFUNDABLE $150 Motorcycle NON-REFUNDABLE $95 UH at Sugar Land (including Disabled) $305 WCJC Parking at UH at Sugar Land (including Disabled) $305 UH at Katy (including Disabled) $105 2022-2023 SEMESTER STUDENT PERMITS Permit Type Student Price Zone NON-REFUNDABLE $190 (Fall) $190 (Spring) $75 (Summer) Garage NON-REFUNDABLE $320 (Fall) $320 (Spring) $130 (Summer) Disabled NON-REFUNDABLE $190 (Fall) $190 (Spring) $75 (Summer) UH at Sugar Land (including Disabled) NON-REFUNDABLE $130 (Fall) $130 (Spring) $45 (Summer) WCJC Parking at UH at Sugar Land (including Disabled) NON-REFUNDABLE $130 (Fall) $130 (Spring) $45 (Summer) All semester permits are NON-REFUNDABLE. Parking Regulations Enforced at All Times A valid UH parking permit is required to park on the University of Houston campus at all times, unless paying to park in a visitor parking location. Parking rules are enforced 24 hours a day, seven days a week, including weekends and university holidays. You must park where your parking permit designates if it is Monday-Thursday between 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. If it is after 3 p.m. Monday-Thursday, or any time on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, a valid UH parking permit can be used to park in any unrestricted space in any ungated zone parking lot on campus. Restricted spaces include reserved, disabled, unloading and metered. Paying For Your Student Permit Students who purchase a permit online will have the permit charge added to their fee bill. The fee bill is your UH account where all university-related fees (housing, graduation application, online education, etc.) and tuition are posted. The permit charge will appear within 1-2 weeks and will need to be paid by the specified due date to avoid additional charges. How to Return a Parking Permit A valid UH parking permit can be returned to Parking and Transportation Services at any time for a prorated refund. There are two ways the permit can be returned: Set an appointment or join a virtual line to bring it in person to the Parking and Transportation Services customer service location in University Lofts. Regular office hours are Monday-Friday from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Mail the permit via certified letter to: Parking and Transportation Services Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Registering an EZ Tag / TxTag Parking and Transportation Services allows the use of EZ Tag (Harris Co.), NTTA Toll Tag (Dallas) or TxTag as a hands-free way to enter and exit your assigned on-campus parking garage or faculty-staff gated lot. This does not replace the need to clearly display a valid permit at all times when parked on campus. If you'd like to use your toll tag, follow these steps to add it to your permit: Sign in to your myParking account through AccessUH. Click on your name in the upper right corner. Click "Manage Your Account Information" in the pull-down menu. Edit the toll tag information at the bottom of the page. Enter only the eight numerals in the toll tag number. Letters and special characters will prevent the tag from working properly. The Evening/Weekend Parking Permit Students, faculty and staff who purchase an Evening/Weekend parking permit cannot use it to park on campus until after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday. It can be used at any time of the day on Saturday and Sunday. These rules apply at all times. The permit can only be used in ungated zone lots in non-restricted spaces. Avoid parking in restricted spaces, such as reserved, disabled, unloading and metered. Anyone who parks in a metered space must pay the fee, even if they have a valid permit. The Evening/Weekend permit cannot be used to park in garages. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies