About UH Energy - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy University UH Energy is an umbrella for efforts across the University of Houston system to position the university as a strategic partner to the energy industry by producing trained workforce, strategic and technical leadership, research and development for needed innovations and new technologies. That’s why UH is the Energy University. Ramanan Krishnamoorti Chief Energy Officer Professor of Chemical Engineering Dr. Ramanan Krishnamoorti is the chief energy officer at the University of Houston. Prior to his current position, Krishnamoorti served as interim vice president for research and technology transfer for UH and the UH System. During his tenure at the university, he has served as chair of the UH Cullen College of Engineering’s chemical and biomolecular engineering department, associate dean of research for engineering, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering with affiliated appointments as professor of petroleum engineering and professor of chemistry. UH ENERGY MEMBERS Energy Advisory Board The Energy Advisory Board engages industry experts and leaders to advance energy education and research. Energy is one of the key initiatives of the University of Houston, together with the arts and health. The Energy Advisory Board is a volunteer board appointed by President Renu Khator. Contributing to the University of Houston as “the energy university,” board members enhance research initiatives and energy education on campus and throughout the city. The Energy Advisory Board lends strategic guidance, external coordination, and resource development for UH Energy, and strengthens the University of Houston’s reputation across the industry. Members participate in committees to develop and to execute actionable plans in the areas of energy education, innovative research, and technology incubation. The focus is on four core areas (upstream, midstream and downstream, renewables and enablers, education) and the focus is to advance student success, brand UH as the Energy University and advance research initiatives. LEARN MORE Faculty Energy Fellows Selected from nine colleges across campus, the fellows work in collaboration with UH Energy and the Energy Advisory Board to shape the conversation on energy at UH and beyond. The fellows serve a term of one full academic year and contribute to an online blog forum hosted by UH Energy and Forbes. LEARN MORE FORBES BLOG Energy Coalition The Energy Coalition is a student organization that works towards solidifying UH's position internationally as The Energy University. The Energy Coalition was formed to bring together students from various colleges and organizations who plan to pursue careers in the energy industry. It fosters communication and collaboration among students who, though pursuing similar career paths, may otherwise never have the opportunity to work together and learn from each other. The largest student group on campus, the Energy Coalition has 34 member student organizations and over 5,000 student members, both undergraduate and graduate, from six colleges across campus. The Energy Coalition’s Executive Board also serves as Energy Ambassadors for UH Energy. LEARN MORE ENERGY COALITION WEBSITE FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA! Connect with UH Energy for news, events and giveaways. Use #UHEnergy or #WeAreUHEnergy to tag us! UH ENERGY YEAR-END REPORTS Interested in what UH Energy has been up to? Find out here: 2017-18 Year-End Report 2018-19 Year-End Report 2019-20 Year-End Report 2020-21 Year-End Report UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies