Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Rules, Citations and Appeals Appeals Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Appeals The parking citation appeals process is intended to provide an objective process to review a citation. There must be substantial and valid evidence that the parking violation was not committed or that it occurred due to circumstances beyond the appellant’s control. Valid documentation of the evidence must be provided when the appeal is submitted. When appealing meter violations, please submit your receipt or the last four digits of the credit card used to pay. Copies of bank statements will not be accepted. Claims of lack of intent to violate the regulations, though allowable, are not sufficient grounds for appealing a parking citation. The following reasons are invalid as a basis for appeal and will result in an automatic guilty ruling: Lack of knowledge of the regulations. For example, new to campus or have not reviewed regulations Other vehicles were parked improperly Only parked illegally for a short period of time Stated failure of parking officer to ticket previously for similar offenses Late to class/appointment No other place to park Inability to pay the amount of the fine Using personal car for university business Inclement weather Operation of the vehicle by another person Someone other than a PTS employee gave permission to park Permit fell or was blocked by sunshade Forgot permit in other vehicle Connectivity issues prevented ability to pay for metered parking Thought more time was left when using metered parking Could not pay for metered parking because cell phone battery died How to Appeal a Citation Log in to your myParking Account using your Courgarnet username and password, or, if you are a visitor, create a guest account. Select "Citations" on the top menu bar. Look for the citation you would like to appeal, and click “Appeal this Citation.” You forfeit the right to appeal after the tenth calendar day from when the citation was issued. Appeals Process The parking citation appeals process involves two progressive levels of review of the citation and appeal. First Level: Administrative Review The appeal, citation, and the appellant’s UH parking history will be reviewed by the Parking & Transportation Appeals Panel. Results will be emailed within 10 calendar days of submittal. If an appeal is denied at this level, a request can be made for a second level appeal if the appellant can provide substantial and valid evidence that the parking violation was issued due to process error, was not committed, or there is new evidence not presented for the original appeal. Please note: opposition of the first level appeal decision without additional evidence presented is not grounds for a second appeal. And the request will be denied without action and appellate notified by email/mail. Second level appeals must be filed by the 10th calendar day from the date the first level decision is rendered. Such requests must be made in writing via email to appeals@uh.edu. If a second level appeal is not selected, the payment due date will be 10 calendar days from the date of the first level decision. Second Level: Transportation & Parking Advisory Committee Designee The Chair and designees from the Transportation & Parking Advisory Committee (TPAC) will review the appeal and written citation, as well as the appellant’s UH parking history. A member from the Student Government Association will review student appeals. A member from the Faculty Senate will review faculty appeals. A member from the Staff Council will review staff member appeals. No designees are associated with PTS. Second-level appeal results will be emailed within 10 calendar days. Second level appeal decisions are final. Payment is due 10 calendar days from the date of the second-level decision. Additional Information Appeals must be submitted within 10 calendar days of citation issuance. Appellants receive email notice of receipt of a completed online appeal. If you do not receive an email acknowledgment, please contact PTS at parking@uh.edu. Notice of the decision regarding your appeal will be sent by email. Please allow up to 14 calendar days for a decision regarding your appeal. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies