Campus Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Campus Services Pastoral by Lin Emery DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. WE ARE HERE FOR YOU. Welcome to the Powerhouse. Whether you’re a current or future student, faculty member and/or staff personnel, you’ll find everything you need to navigate our beautiful campus. Explore our campus resources below for quick access to popular campus destinations, room reservation forms, contact information for the IT service desk and more. Request Information > Shuttle Services > Parking Information > HOURS OF OPERATION The Albert & Mamie George Building, Brazos Hall and the College of Technology building are open the following hours. Summer Intersession Hours May 16 - June 5 MON-THU 7:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.† FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT-SUN CLOSED The University is closed May 30, 2022 for Memorial Day. † No entry after 7 p.m. Security will be on-site till class time ends and occupants have vacated. Regular Summer Session Hours June 6 - August 14 MON-THU 7:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.† FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT-SUN CLOSED The University is closed July 4, 2022 for Independence Day. † No entry after 9 p.m. Security will be on-site till class time ends and occupants have vacated. Please call 832-842-2900 to inquire about hours during holidays or between semesters. University Branch Library hours The University Branch Library's hours are managed by the Fort Bend County Libraries (FBCL) System. Check the Library's website for details as well as information about available services. CAMPUS DESTINATIONS The University of Houston at Sugar Land is located at the intersection of UH 59 south and University Boulevard, just northeast of the Brazos River, one exit south of Sweetwater/First Colony Boulevard. Take a Virtual Tour of our instructional site, powered by YouVisit. We offer large state-of-the-art classrooms, computer and multipurpose labs, as well as a campus library and coffee shop. Bookstore > Library > Cougar Corner > Transportation Services > Virtual Tour > Directions > Facilties Directory > STUDENT SERVICES As an instructional site of the University of Houston, UH at Sugar Land offers services from the UH Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services. Events and services are provided on select days of the week and all students are invited to use these resources. Enrollment Services Integration > Career Services > Counseling & Psychological Services > Center for Students with Disabilities > INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY UH at Sugar Land has a variety of technology resources for use by faculty and students. This technology includes computing, multimedia, videoconferencing and telecommunications resources. The Information Technology team (IT) is responsible for operating and maintaining the technology and assisting faculty and students with its use. Connect to WiFi > IT Service Catalog > Computer Labs > 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies