Academic Programs - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Arts Leadership About Instructors Program Graduates Community Partners Admissions Academics Master of Arts Dual Degree Program Arts and Health Certificate Museum and Gallery Management Certificate Resources News Giving Academic Programs Master of Arts The graduate program in Arts Leadership will provide advanced study in the management and promotion of arts organizations across artistic disciplines. Dual Degree Program The dual degree options present a unique opportunity for performers, studio artists, and scholars to combine discipline-specific arts practices with the field of professional arts administration. Arts and Health Certificate The graduate certificate in Arts and Health combines the fine and performing arts into the areas of health, healthcare and well-being. Museum and Gallery Management Certificate Museum management is transferable across various types of museums, including children’s museums, history museums, natural science museums, etc. Graduate Catalog Apply Now Instructors Giving Select Arts Leadership Courses Fundamentals and Strategic Planning for the Arts The importance of planning and decision making, creation of mission, vision and value statements is critical to prospering in the arts. A complete strategic plan will address the importance of strategic thinking, change management and leadership. Fundraising for the Arts Students are introduced to basic terminology and concepts in the field; relationship building, the solicitation process, the grants process, major gifts process, the annual campaign, corporate giving and the role of planned giving within an organization’s overall fundraising efforts. Leading Change Change management is difficult but rewarding. Effectively leading change within arts organizations requires a keen understanding of what it means to truly influence both people and outcomes, and how to best assert one’s own unique leadership stance for the biggest positive impact. Technology and the Arts Technology is critical to contemporary arts. This course explores intersections of art and technology across interdisciplinary practices. Through readings, viewings, projects, critiques, and guest presentations, students examine technologically mediated art as well as new media and research. Advisors Prospective Students Kelly Ibarra Admissions Manager kibarra@uh.edu Current Students Jason Barkemeyer Director of Academic Affairs and Student Success jpbarkemeyer@uh.edu “I was always a supporter of asking the right questions. But, as I created my own nonprofit organization, I didn’t know what questions to ask. The Arts Leadership Program taught me what questions to ask and how to show myself how to ask more. To draw from the fictional character Agent Starling, I can once again take the high powered finger of perception and point back at myself. I can now look both outside and inside to improve myself and my organization.” Dane Manuel (’11, MA ’15) 3700 Cullen Blvd, Room E128 Houston, TX 77204-4039 713-743-3019 Contact Us Arts Leadership Director: Fleurette Fernando 713-743-4817 arld@uh.edu Admissions 713-743-5934 Schools and Centers Moores School of Music 713-743-3009 School of Art 713-743-3001 School of Theatre & Dance 713-743-3003 Arts Leadership 713-743-4817 Blaffer Art Museum 713-743-9521 Center for Art & Social Engagement 713-743-4281 Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts 713-743-7008 ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies