Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Accelerating Scientific Discovery at Extreme Scale with ParaView Thursday, May 26, 2022 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm About the Event As the scale of computational simulations continues to grow, the need for rich visualization and analysis capabilities that scale with the demand increases. Kitware’s open-source scientific visualization platform ParaView continues to push the envelope of stunning scientific visualization and quantitative analysis. Already available on the largest super-computing platforms in the country, thanks to concerted investment in in-situ co-processing, ParaView is ready for next-generation exascale computing. In this talk, we will discuss how ParaView and Catalyst are enabling scientific discovery at extreme computational scale. We will also discuss exciting advancements in our open-source customizable pre-processing platform Computational ModelBuilder. About the Speaker Corey Wetterer-Nelson Ph.D. Senior R&D engineer, Kitware Dr. Wetterer-Nelson, is a senior R&D engineer on Kitware’s Scientific Computing Team. He contributes to Kitware’s scientific visualization efforts, including designing and developing end-user tools for data analysis and visualization. He helps maintain and expand visualization toolkits and applications, such as the Computational ModelBuilder (CMB), Visualization Toolkit (VTK), ParaView and Catalyst. He has also made contributions to the in-situ analysis infrastructure of high-performance simulation frameworks and codes AMReX, WarpX, MFix-Exa, PHASTA, and SENSEI. REGISTER Location Online Only Cost Free Contact Ishita Sharma University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies