Transfer Orientation - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Transfer Orientation Page contents: About Orientation Your Orientation Process Orientation Dates FAQs Policies Accessibility So, you're officially a Cougar! You’ve worked hard to get here, and your academic career at the University of Houston is about to start. Transfer Orientation is a mandatory one-day experience for incoming transfer students where you'll get to meet fellow new Coogs, current student leaders, faculty and staff. During orientation, you’ll get connected with the UH community and learn about services that are here to help you succeed. You’ll also meet with your academic college advising staff to register for classes! The Transfer Student Orientation experience will inspire your Cougar Pride and set you up for success at the University of Houston. Go Coogs! Check out this sample schedule to get a feel of what your Transfer Orientation experience could look like. Your Orientation Process Step 1 Secure your spot at UH by registering for orientation through your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Review our step-by-step instructions and video. Step 2 Complete your Pre-Orientation modules before your orientation date. Available on your my.uh.edu self-service portal on May 2. Removes Pre-Orientation Hold Step 3 Attend your orientation date. The first half of the day will focus on transitioning to UH and the second half will be spent with your advisor discussing your degree plan. Removes Transfer Orientation Hold Removes Transfer Orientation Advising Hold Step 4 Register for Courses! Orientation Dates May 26* June 1* June 15 June 24** *Available for incoming Fall 2022 and Summer 2022 students starting classes for Sessions 1, 2, and 3 of the Summer 2022 semester. **Available for incoming Fall 2022 and Summer 2022 students starting classes for Sessions 4 of the Summer 2022 semester. Frequently Asked Questions Expand AllCollapse All What is the cost of orientation and how do I register? At the time of registration, orientation is $75 for incoming transfer students. Payment for orientation is due before you can view and select an orientation date through your myUH portal. Use these step-by-step instructions to register for orientation. How do I cancel or reschedule an orientation? Follow these step-by-step instructions to log in to your myUH self-service portal to manage your orientation schedule. How do I remove the orientation holds on my account? Incoming Transfer Students: Pre-Orientation Transfer Orientation Transfer Orientation Advising The Pre-Orientation hold will be removed when you complete the pre-orientation modules. If you are already registered for orientation, use the instructions to access and complete your pre-orientation modules. Make sure you have pop-up blockers disabled: Step 1: Log in to your myUH Account. Step 2: Click on the "Student Admissions" tab. Step 3: Click the "Online Orientation" tab on your left. Step 4: Click "Go to Online Orientation." The Transfer Orientation hold will be removed from a student’s account within 24 hours of completing the Self-Paced Online Orientation Modules through your AccessUH account. The Transfer Orientation Advising hold will be removed at the discretion of your academic college. Specific advising information will be provided in the pre-orientation modules and the academic college meeting of your orientation. How do I change my major before attending orientation? Follow the steps below to change your major before attending Transfer Orientation: Review the admissions requirements for the major you want to switch into: Transfer Admissions Requirements Transfer Majors with Additional Requirements Complete the Change of Major form five business days before your live orientation. You will receive an email notification regarding the status of your major change before attending orientation. Do you offer a fee waiver for orientation? UH does not offer fee waivers for orientation, however, a fee deferment may be provided to students who demonstrate financial need prior to orientation. A fee deferment adds the $75 orientation fee to a student’s tuition and fee bill instead of requiring them to pay $75 prior to registering for orientation. To be eligible for a fee deferment, a student must meet BOTH of the following criteria. We reserve the right to deny a student’s request for a fee deferment without sufficient proof of need: You have an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of $0-$2000 according to your on-file FAFSA application. You have an incoming PELL or TEXAS grant for the intended semester of enrollment. Payment is due by the tuition and fee bill deadline. Any student who attends orientation will be required to pay the orientation fee whether the fee was deferred or the student attended a previous orientation from another term. Additionally, the orientation fee payment is still required if the student does not enroll in the university after attending orientation. If payment is not made, a financial delinquency hold will be placed on the student’s account. If you meet the criteria listed above, please use our form to submit a request for a fee deferment. What happens to my in-person orientation if it cannot be conducted in-person? In the event that an orientation session cannot be conducted in-person, the session will occur on the same date in a virtual capacity. Where can I park? In order to receive complimentary event parking for Transfer Orientation, you are required to park in the University Gateway Garage. Check out these directions to campus or type "4759 Calhoun Rd, Houston, TX 77004" into your preferred navigation app. The easiest way to get here is through Entrance #1 on Calhoun Road. There are many other parking garages on campus. Your parking fee will not be validated if you park in a garage that is not the University Gateway Garage. What if I need special accommodations? Email orientation@uh.edu at least one week prior to your orientation date if you need assistance during your orientation. Can my family or guest members attend orientation and how do I add them? Yes! If you have a family or guest who wants to support you in your transition to UH, encourage them to register for Family & Guest Orientation. For transfer orientation, each guest will pay a $40 fee. They can attend a live orientation session on the same date as your orientation session. Some portions of orientation programming are planned for you and your guest to experience together while other sessions are just for you, and will separate you from your guest. > Learn more and register for Family & Guest Orientation Can I bring my friend/sibling /family member with me to Orientation? Parents and guardians are welcome at all orientations and, if attending, will follow a separate schedule of events. Because of the nature of the program, it is not appropriate for anyone except parents/guardians or spouses to attend as a guest. Friends or siblings are not allowed to accompany you. Guests under 18 will not be able to attend Family & Guest Orientation without a parent or guardian. The exception would be an older sibling who is acting in a guardian capacity; however, in this case, the sibling would attend the Family Member Orientation and would not be with you during any time parents and students are not ordinarily together. Policies Expand AllCollapse All Exemptions from Completing Orientation All incoming students to the University of Houston for the Summer and Fall 2022 semester are required to attend a live orientation session. However, if a student meets one of the criteria below, they will be exempt from completing orientation: Student has paid and attended a New Student Orientation within the last 12 months. Student will be non-degree seeking AND is not planning to transition to a degree seeking student. Student has been admitted as a post-baccalaureate student in the College of Education. Students who meet any of the above criteria can complete an exemption form. Staff will verify the exemption and, if criteria is met, remove both holds within 24 – 48 business hours. If exemption criteria is not met, the student will be notified within 24 – 48 business hours. Accommodation to attend Virtual Orientation All incoming students to the University of Houston for the Summer and Fall 2022 semester are required to attend an orientation session. However, if you meet one of the criteria below, you can receive an accommodation to attend a synchronous Virtual Orientation: Student will be completing the Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) - UH Extend online-only degree program. Student has a documented medical condition spanning the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation dates. Student’s permanent address is over 300+ miles from the University of Houston main campus. Student will be traveling during the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation date. Examples may include a mission trip or studying abroad. Acceptable forms of documentation include: a confirmed airline ticket, train ticket, etc. spanning the dates of all orientation sessions. Student is or will be serving military orders during the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation date. Students who meet any of the above criteria can complete a Virtual Orientation Accommodation form to attend orientation on either June 7 or July 27. UH reserves the right to deny a student’s request for Virtual Orientation without sufficient documentation of need. Fee Deferment UH does not offer fee waivers for orientation, however, a fee deferment may be provided to students who demonstrate financial need prior to orientation. A fee deferment adds the $75 orientation fee to a student’s tuition and fee bill instead of requiring them to pay $75 prior to registering for orientation. To be eligible for a fee deferment, a student must meet BOTH of the following criteria. We reserve the right to deny a student’s request for a fee deferment without sufficient proof of need: You have an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of $0-$2000 according to your on-file FAFSA application. You have an incoming PELL or TEXAS grant for the intended semester of enrollment. Payment is due by the tuition and fee bill deadline. Any student who attends orientation will be required to pay the orientation fee whether the fee was deferred or the student attended a previous orientation from another term. Additionally, the orientation fee payment is still required if the student does not enroll in the university after attending orientation. If payment is not made, a financial delinquency hold will be placed on the student’s account. If you meet the criteria listed above, please use this form to submit a request for a fee deferment. Orientation Fees and Refunds At the time of registration, orientation is $75. Payment for orientation is due before you can view and select an orientation date through your myUH portal. Use these step-by-step instructions to register for orientation. For in-person transfer orientation sessions, the family and guest orientation fee is $40. For family and guest members who choose a virtual orientation option, the orientation fee is $0. All orientation fees for both students and family and guest members are non-refundable. Early Arrival Students who need to arrive the evening before their orientation may receive a housing accommodation at Cougar Village II. Students who have been approved for this accommodation can arrive between 6:00 pm and 8:00 pm on the evening before their orientation to check in with orientation staff. A $30 charge will be added to your student account. Specific information will be sent closer to your check in date. Linens are not provided and you are expected to bring your own linens. Early arrival is unavailable for these orientation dates: May 26, August 8, August 9, and August 11. Use our form to request an early arrival. Accessibility All videos are closed captioned for students with accessibility needs. If you need further assistance or have questions about the orientation experience, don’t hesitate to contact us at orientation@uh.edu. Contact Us If you have any questions or concerns related to New Student Orientation that weren't answered above, please contact us at orientation@uh.edu or (713) 743-1010, option 4. We look forward to seeing you! Meet O-Team Facebook Twitter Instagram The Orientation Team (O-Team for short) are your new best friends. Think of them as a family made up of a diverse and unique group of current UH students who serve as leaders across campus. They'll work with you and your family to introduce you to the University of Houston, and all the academic, social, and cultural aspects of becoming a Cougar. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies