Office of Administration - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of Administration Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of Administration About Us Committees About Us Meet the Team Awards and Accolades Resources Contact Us Strategic Plan Strategic Goals FY 2018 Departments Assessment and Evaluation Auxiliary Services Parking and Transportation Services Public Art of the University of Houston System University Services Internal Communications Contact Us You have likely seen these situations as you shop off-campus, and these impacts are also being experienced by our contract providers. Learn More Emily A. Messa, Ph.D., C.A.S.P. Senior Associate Vice Chancellor & Senior Associate Vice President Administration Supported by a dedicated staff, student employees and 300-plus contractors, the Office of Administration provides a foundational infrastructure of services for the campus community and also cultivates ongoing growth and proactive master planning of fundamental UH initiatives in collaboration with campus community partners in support of the UH Mission and transformation as an innovative pacesetter for future success. Highlights Virtual Permits Coming Soon Parking and Transportation Services hosted information sessions to discuss the transition to virtual parking permits. Watch here. Finals Mania returns to much fanfare One of the highlights of wrapping up the academic year is the Finals Mania tradition, during which administrators serve students free food to help students fuel their minds for finals study sessions. Learn more about the return of Finals Mania. Andy Warhol Exhibition Now Open at UHCL Public Art's first traveling exhibition, "Instantaneous Beauty: Andy Warhol and the Photographic Process," now open at its second venue, the University of Houston-Clear Lake Art Gall Learn more about the Andy Warhol Exhibit at UHCL. Public Art's Object Laboratory Now Open Public Art's Object Lab is now officially open. Run by Public Art UHS and the UH School of Art, the facility extends object-based co-curricular learning to the university campus, utilizing our collection as a conduit for the success of students enrolled in various programs. Visit Public Art's Object Laboratory to learn more. Public Art Announces $20,000 Grant Opportunity Public Art is now accepting proposals from Texas-based artists and artist teams at the early stages of their careers for a $20,000 grant opportunity to design, fabricate, and install a temporary public artwork at the University of Houston, Louise J. Moran Fine Arts Courtyard in 2023. Applications are due May 30th. Help spread the word. Learn more about YardWorks Coca-Cola Student Ambassador Receives the Rookie of the Year Award Each year, Coca-Cola gives out a slate of awards dubbed Outstanding Ambassador Awards. Due to her tremendous work as a first-year ambassador, Reyes was named the company’s Rookie of the Year. Read more about Jimena’s lifelong journey to work for Coca-Cola. Cougar Red Friday University of Houston faculty and staff are reminded they can take advantage of the $6 Cougar Red Fridays at the two campus dining commons. COAST Program Marks Sixth Year of Serving the UH Community In an effort to better serve UH’s ever-growing campus and community, Parking and Transportation Services launched the Coogs on Alternate and Sustainable Transportation (COAST) program back in 2016. The COAST program offers eligible students, faculty and staff incentives program to carpool or utilize alternative and sustainable options to get to campus. To learn more. Public Art Presents Jonah and the Whale Come see Jonah and the Whale, created by African American artist and Texas Southern University faculty member, Caroll Harris Simms, located outside the University of Houston Police Department Building. Along with TSU art department founder, John Biggers, Simms is credited with helping to establish the art program at TSU. Acquired in 1973, Jonah and the Whale was the first work by an African American artist to be accessioned into the collection. Public Art UHS has a vast collection of artworks by diverse artists. Browse the Public Art UHS website to learn more. Events at Cullen Performance Hall Over the next few months, a variety of exciting and entertaining shows and events will take the stage at the historic Cullen Performance Hall. To view the full calendar of events go here. Book your next event with us. Virtual Meter Parking/Text-to-Pay UH Parking is enhancing the parking experience through the implementation of virtual meter parking. Payment is no longer accepted through physical meters. There is signage at each of the virtual meter locations on campus explaining how to pay to park in these visitor spaces, which are marked with orange striping. Learn more about the text-to-pay virtual meter parking. Qatari Artist Muna Al Bader creates the mural Public Art UHS brought Qatari Artist Muna Al-Bader to campus for a unique and inspiring experience: the creation of a new mural, Cultural Bonds in celebration of the Qatar-USA 2021 Year of Culture. The piece was recently completed and will be on view until November 2022. It is conveniently located in the UH Arts district, outside the College of Technology. Visit Public Art UHS for additional details. Faculty Textbook Adoption Resource Update For the latest information about how to enter your adoptions through the Faculty Center, check out easy step-by-step instructions about how to adopt your course materials in six steps or less! the Follett Discover module within Access UH is an easy way to submit your adoptions. Visit the Faculty Textbook Adoption website to learn more. New Artist Exhibition Through March 2023 Dorothy Hood: The Edge of Being is organized by Public Art of the University of Houston System in collaboration with the Art Museum of South Texas (AMST) and UH Libraries Special Collections. The exhibition features artworks from several collections including those of Public Art UHS and the AMST as well as objects drawn from the Dorothy Hood Papers, a collection of the Art Museum of South Texas and the University of Houston Libraries. Click here for more details. A&F Leader Esmeralda Valdez Presents with Las Comadres Colleagues at Conference Along with her colleagues in Las Comadres College Mentoring Program, Esmeralda Valdez led a session at the 2022 Diversity Institute’s Good Trouble. Learn more about allyship in action. New Mail and Package Lockers Make Deliveries a Breeze For the past two years, the University of Houston’s Delivery Services Department has been gradually implementing a new method of delivering mail and packages to students and staff. Read more about mail and package lockers. UH Campus Store Price Match The UH Campus Store’s price matching policy allows students to compare new, used, and rental textbook prices at Amazon and Barnes & Noble. Pay With Your Digital Cougar Card Exciting News from Cougar Card! You can now pay for your meals at Cougar Woods with your digital Cougar Card. It’s easy. Open your digital cougar card in the UH Go app. Use the QR code for meal swipe, Cougar Cash and ShastaBucks transactions! Sign up for text updates from Parking You can sign up for text messege alerts from Parking and Transportation by Texting COOGPARK to 55744 Cougar Card Available Now in the UH Go App Use your cougar card on the UH Go App for remote exams, on and off campus perks, plus much more! News CougarQ Departmental Appointment Portal So much to do and not enough time to stand in line!? Don’t worry, you can get in line remotely! We will text you when you’ve reached the front of the line. Join the virtual line or schedule an appointment by visiting CougarQ in AccessUH. Guests without AccessUH credentials can join the line or schedule an appointment by clicking here. UH Dining Summer Hours Summer is here and that means new operating hours for some University of Houston dining services. The summer break typically means fewer students on campus which allow UH dining establishments to shift their hours of operation due to fewer customers. Fresh Fork Catering + Events Launches New Ordering Platform - Spoonfed Simply click here to register or log-in and follow the prompts to enjoy your next catered event! To learn more, click here. Awards and Recognitions Departments Campus Store Copy and Print Services Cougar Card Cullen Performance Hall Delivery Services Dining Parking and Transportation Public Art University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies