Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Global Hospitality Leadership Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership About Our Mission Celebrating 50 Reasons We Are Hospitality Diversity Degree Programs Points of Pride Meet Dean Dennis Reynolds Dean’s Reports Dean's Advisory Board Dean’s Leadership Team Meet Our Faculty Spec’s Beverage & Food Appreciation Laboratory Sysco Student Kitchen Hospitality Industry Archives Hospitality Industry Hall of Honor Inductees Cougar Grounds Students Future Students Degree Programs Consider the Honors College Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Summer Camps Students Available for Your Questions Current Students Academic Advising Student Resources Sign Up for Student LISTSERV Undergraduate Degree Requirements Graduate Degree Requirements University Commencement Ceremony Transfer Students Course Catalogs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Study Abroad Study Abroad Application Form Australia: Edith Cowan University France: La Rochelle Business School France: University of Angers Hong Kong: HK PolyU Peru: Summer in Cusco Peru: USIL South Korea: Sejong University UH Study Abroad Programs Culinary Institute of America Experience Tuition, Fees & Financial Aid Scholarships Student Organizations Request Information Careers Find Jobs and Internships Student Login Alumni-Login Career Planner Checklist Career Fair For Employers Opportunities to Connect With Our Students Post a Job or Internship Register for Career Fair Recruit on Campus University Career Services Placement Reports News & Events News Releases Faculty Accolades Pineapple POPS Newsletter Hospitality Graduate School Fair Gourmet Night Calendar Alumni & Giving Alumni Alumni Board Eric’s Club Eric’s Club Members Keepers of the Lamp Honoring Erik Give Back Our Hotel Eric's Restaurant Fred Parks Boardroom Hotel Directory Contact Us Request Information Phone Book Directions Faculty Directory College Staff Directory Hotel Directory Doctoral Student Directory Virtual Tour Professor Emeriti UH Home College of Global Hospitality Leadership Our Hotel College of Global Hospitality Leadership About Careers News & Events Alumni & Giving Contact Us Our Hotel Eric's Restaurant Fred Parks Boardroom Calendar Academic Programs Our Hotel YES, the Hilton University of Houston is OPEN FOR BUSINESS during the construction of its new five-story hotel tower! The next phase of construction involves the renovation of the hotel lobby. On Monday, May 23 the lobby closes through Labor Day. This closure affects guest check-in and the operations of Eric's Restaurant. To accommodate guests, both Eric's and the front desk will be temporarily relocated to the second floor of the hotel. Hotel guests will check in at the desk located outside the Sales Office. Eric's guests will dine in a section of the Waldorf-Astoria Ballroom. A limited lunch and dinner menu will be served. A buffet-only breakfast will also be offered. During this transition period, hours of operation are 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. daily for both dine-in and carry-out service. Dinner and bar service is also available seven days a week from 4 to 9 p.m. Elevator access to the lobby of the North Tower is restricted, but guests can take the North Tower elevators from the parking garage to the second floor to easily access the front desk and Eric's. The South Tower elevators will continue to operate as normal. Additional signage will help guests, visitors, faculty, staff and students navigate their way during this construction. Parking is FREE to Eric's Restaurant guests (maximum of 2 hours) and for those picking up their takeout orders (less than 15 minutes). The rate for 15 minutes to 8 hours is $15; 8 hours or more and overnight parking is $20. This temporary inconvenience will result in a fully renovated hotel lobby for fall 2022. Room renovations in the existing hotel North Tower will begin July 5. We look forward to serving you – today and with the anticipated opening of our new hotel guest tower in February 2023. Thank you for your patience! _____ One of more than 5,700 Hilton hotels worldwide, the Hilton University of Houston serves as the primary teaching facility for the Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership. Hilton College is the only hospitality program in the world whose teaching facility is an internationally branded full-service hotel. Hospitality students here gain hands-on experience in guest service, hotel operations and banquet and restaurant service. First built in 1975, the hotel underwent a $12.5-million renovation and reopened as a “new” hotel in April 2010. In March 2019, the University of Houston System Board of Regents approved a $30.4 million revenue bond to expand the hotel to include a new five-story, 70-room guest tower that will increase the total number of guest rooms to 150. This project also includes a two-phase renovation of the existing 80 guest rooms in the eight-story North Tower. Construction of the new tower began in July 2021 and is anticipated to be completed by February 2023. The Hilton University of Houston features 25,000 square feet of flexible banquet space, including six meeting rooms and three ballrooms with capacities ranging from 10 to 600 people. It is the ideal destination for meetings, banquets, receptions and special events. Additionally, business casual dining is available at Eric’s Restaurant, just off the hotel lobby. The Fred Parks Boardroom offers a stylish alternative venue for breakfast, lunch or dinner meetings and features a remarkable wine collection. The boardroom can accommodate customized menus with wine pairings for up to 14 people. The hotel's prime location – just three miles from downtown Houston and 10 minutes from William P. Hobby Airport – gives guests quick access to the world-class restaurants, exciting sports activities and cultural arts events that make Houston a top destination for business and leisure travelers alike. It also is the ideal hotel and meeting place for potential students, faculty, conference attendees, UH sports fans and other visitors to the University of Houston campus. For more information or to make reservations, click here. Conrad N. Hilton College Hilton University of Houston 4450 University Dr., Room 227 Houston, TX 77204-3028 Directions For Hotel Reservations Eric's Restaurant Our Mission Meet Our Dean What’s On Your mind? Faculty Directory Degree Programs Course Catalogs Scholarships To Hire Our Students Conrad N. Hilton College P & T Guidelines ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies