College Readiness - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are College Readiness As one of the most diverse colleges in the nation, the University of Houston is committed to increasing access to and success in higher education to underrepresented, disadvantaged, and underserved students of all ages. Below, you'll find an overview of the workshops, presentations, and activities we offer. You’ll also find various resources, including a guide for prospective first-generation college students and multilingual admissions brochures. What We Do Empower We empower students by educating them about the benefits of a college degree. Connect We connect students to valuable resources and programs that promote and inspire growth. Support We support our University's and community's intiative to become a more inclusive and prospering environment. Hands-On Learning We are dedicated to helping students navigate the college-going process, including career and college exploration, applying to college, and the financial aid process. We offer various activites, workshops, and activities that will educate students about the benefits of higher education. Questions? Contact us > Presentations Your health and safety is important to us. Due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19), all presentations will be conducted virtually. Paving the Road to College K –12th (Presentation times vary based on academic grade level ) Approx. 15-45 minutes Students will learn general information about college. This presentation also details information about post-secondary options, importance of earning a post-secondary degree, and the steps to and why it is important to start thinking about life after high school. College Fit 10th – 11th Grade Approx. 30-45 minutes Students will learn the importance and how to choose a college based on their academic, social, and financial needs. FIRST GEN COOGS First-Generation (first-gen) college students are the first members of their immediate family to attend college in the United States. Many first-generation college students experience unique strengths and challenges in the pursuit of a college education. We're here to help guide future first-gen coogs with their journey to college. Check out our Planning for College pamphlet for advice on how to prepare for college from ninth grade to senior year. Official SAT Practice Having a high SAT score can increase chances of getting into college, qualify you for college honors programs, and open up more scholarship opportunities. Prepare for the SAT by taking advantage of free offical SAT Practice with your Khan Academy and College Board accounts. Students will get personalized practice recommendations based on your results from the new SAT®, PSAT/NMSQT®, PSAT™10, and PSAT™8/9. All you have to do is follow these steps: 1 Go to satpractice.org Create an account on Khan Academy, or sign into your existing account. 2 Link Your Accounts When prompted, agree to link your Khan Academy and College Board accounts. 3 Send Your Scores Log in to your College Board account, and hit Send to get a personalized practice plan. Start practicing SAT Prep Guide for Parents and Teachers Contact Us Want to talk to someone from the Access and Outreach team about the University of Houston? Have a question about scheduling a presentation with your class? Reach out to the Access and Outreach team today! Email: admissionsoutreach@uh.edu Resources The University of Houston offers various resources to its students to maximize their college experience. Check out a few helpful offices and organizations below: College Fit The Princeton Review CollegeBoard College Navigator Financial Aid Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) College For All Texans UH Costs & Financial Aid UH Financial Literacy University of Houston Resources UH Commuter Services Program UH Student Housing & Residential Life UH Summer Camps UH Center for Diversity and Inclusion University Career Services UH Center for Student Empowerment For additional resources and information, visit uh.edu/dsaes. Admissions Brochures Freshman Students Freshman Students (en Español) International Freshman Students International Freshman Students (Mandarin) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies