TYCTWD - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Staff Council Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Staff Council About Member Roster Constitution Bylaws History University System Staff Executive Council (USSEC) Committees Staff Council Standing Committees University-Wide Committees University System Staff Executive Council (USSEC) Staff Council Community Outreach (Ad Hoc) Committee Events Conversations with Staff Cougar First Impressions CFI Volunteer Binder Homecoming Spirit Bell Competition Sock & Blanket Drive Spring Egg Hunt Staff Affairs - Events & Initiatives Staff Council Member Elections Voters' Guide Staff Focus Staff Tailgates Staff Weeks of Welcome Take Your Child to Work Day Virtual TYCTWD Tax Preparation Day Workplace Conversations Member Resources New Member Orientation Staff Council Calendar Staff Resources Staff Council Leadership Recognition Staff Resources DEI Resources Cougar Cudos (Staff Recognition) #WhyIVote Campaign Staff Council Scholarship & Programs Staff Council Scholarship Updates Staff Council & WGRC Scholarships Staff Council B. Renae Milton Students of Staff Scholarship Staff Council Rebecca Szwarc Professional Development Reimbursement Give to Staff Council UH Home Staff Council Take Your Child to Work Day TYCTWD TYCTWD was launched in 2017 and welcomed 200 children, ages 8-13. In 2019, TYCTWD grew from 5 program areas to 8 and welcomed 280 young Coogs to come to work and participate in activities with their parents. UH faculty and staff who participated in the program expressed an interest in bringing younger and older children to TYCTWD activities. In 2019 children as young as 4 and old as 15 accompanied their parents. University of Houston faculty and staff are also encouraged to explore the Virtual Take Your Child To Work Day webpage for links to family-oriented programs, resources, and activities for young Coogs of all ages. SPECIAL THANKS to our 2022 TYCTWD activity hosts and supporters! Auxiliary Services Campus Safety College of Technology Fire and Life Safety Public Art of the University of Houston System Tilman J. Fertitta College of Medicine University of Houston Police Department UH STEM Center 2022 TYCTWD Registration Information TYCTWD will take place on Friday, June 10, 2022 from 9:00 am to 12:30 pm* at various locations across campus. All children must be accompanied by a UH employed parent for the entire day. Children must be between the ages of 5 and 15. Registrations will be limited to the first 120 children and program availability will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Scheduled programs will run from 9 am to 12:30 pm and the full schedule of events will be provided when your registration is confirmed. Event time may vary by TYCTWD host location. Registration is now and will close no later than June 3, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. This event is limited to the first 120 children, if this registration page isn't accepting submissions, we may have reached the cap. Register to participate in TYCTWD. Forms to Participate In order to participate in the activities of Take Your Child to Work Day you must complete the following forms for your children during the registration process. Registration will not be considered complete unless the required forms are attached. Release and Indemnification Agreement (OGC-S-2013-11) - as required by the Office of Risk Management for event participation Authorization for Use of Image (OGC-SF-2003-02) - for everyone to take pictures at the event Special Announcements All children must be accompanied by a UH employed parent for the entire day. Participating staff are responsible for speaking with their respective supervisor or manager about their ability to bring their children to the office and attend the event. Participants are responsible for their own parking. Participants are responsible for their own lunch. Frequent hand washing and hand sanitizing should be followed by visitors before and during visits to the University of Houston campus. The University of Houston encourages the wearing of face coverings, especially for individuals who are not fully vaccinated, but face coverings are not required on campus. Please make sure to adhere to the latest safety guidelines and follow UH Visitor Protocols. For more information contact Sharon Pellas, schavez@uh.edu, and Emily Merrell, emerrell@uh.edu. Expand AllCollapse All Volunteer Opportunities Staff Council needs volunteers to help during Take Your Child To Work Day (TYCTWD). UH students, staff, and faculty are welcome to volunteer. Sign up to volunteer using the TYCTWD Volunteer Form. 2022 TYCTWD Host Activities 1. College of Technology Age Range: 6-8 years old Check in time: 8:30am Activity time: 9:00am Activity description: Spaghetti tower, marshmallow challenge, stack the cup race, penny boat, and egg drop challenge activities. 2. Fire and Life Safety Age Range: 12-18 years old Check in time: 9:30 am Activity time: 10:00 am Activity description: General fire safety presentation, fire extinguisher practice, and review of fire alarms and sprinkler systems. 3. Public Art of the University of Houston System Age Range: 5-13 years old Check in time: 10:00am Activity time: 10:00am Activity description: Participants will explore art in public spaces at the University of Houston campus and create their own artwork to take home! Create and customize a colorful chromo-spinner inspired by Double Physichromie, a public sculpture by Carlos Cruz-Diez. 4. UH STEM Center Age Range: 8-13 years old Check in time: 9:00 am Activity time: 9:30 am- 11:30am Activity description: Ready, set, go! Participants will create a balloon car with your students and go through the engineering design process to accomplish different challenges. 5. UHPD Age Range: 7-13 years old Check in time: TBD Activity time: TBD Activity description: Participants will be coloring a UHPD Badge and sharing why they chose the colors and design. Participants will be going outside to look at a UHPD car and ATV. 6. Tilman J. Fertitta College of Medicine Age Range: 5-13 years old Check in time: 11:00 am Activity time: 11:00 am to 1:00 pm Activity description: Participants will learn how to take care of minor cuts and scrapes, play games, and earn some very cool prizes. Pizza and cake will be provided by the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine. Previous TYCTWD Events 2019 Take Your Child To Work Day June 7, 2019 from 8:00am to 11:00am 280 children, ages 4-15 8 Program Areas Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts College of Technology Office of Sustainability Natural Sciences and Mathematics University Career Services Athletics College of Education Public Art and Houston Public Media 2018 Take Your Child To Work Day June 8, 2018 from 8:00am to 11:00am 200 children, ages 6-13 5 Program Areas: Library College of Technology College of Business College of the Arts and Blaffer Gallery NSM 2017's Inaugural Take Your Child To Work Day June 9, 2017 from 8:00am to 11:00am 200 children, ages 8-13 5 Program Areas: Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts C.T. Bauer College of Business Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management M.D. Anderson Library College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics E Cullen Building, Room 25 Houston, TX 77204-2018 713-743-1578 staffcouncil@uh.edu Staff Council Calendar Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency President Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies