Visiting UH at Sugar Land - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Visitors Visiting UH at Sugar Land DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. TIER ONE IN FORT BEND COUNTY. Stroll through our park-like campus. Take in our public art pieces. Snap a picture in front of our UH banner. UH at Sugar Land loves visitors. Whether you are planning your higher education goals or just passing through, we look forward to your visit. View our historical timeline > Take a Virtual Tour powered by YouVisit > EXPLORE OUR CAMPUS The first academic building to open its doors at the University of Houston at Sugar Land More information on this facility > Home to the UH College of Nursing, the College of Technology of Biotechnology program and the UH at Sugar Land Bookstore. Bookstore > Building hours > WCJC > An official Fort Bend County Library branch open to UH at Sugar Land and Wharton County Junior College, as well as the Fort Bend community. More information on this facility > Apply for a library card > EXPLORE OUR AREA Sugar Land/Fort Bend County is home to many attractions. Be sure to take in these sites: Sugar Land Town Square > Smart Financial Centre > Constellation Field > DIRECTIONS TO CAMPUS From US-59/69 North Start out on US-59 north headed towards Sugar Land. Take the exit towards University Blvd. Merge onto US-59 Frontage Road. Turn right onto University Blvd. Turn right at the first cross street onto Lexington Blvd. From US-59/69 South Start out on US-59 South headed towards Sugar Land. Take the exit towards University Blvd. Merge onto US-59 Frontage Road. Use the third from left lane to turn left onto University Blvd. Turn right at the first cross street onto Lexington Blvd. Public Art at Sugar Land More details and view more photos > Suite of 10 Prints, Charles Wiese (1995) A set of 10 iris digital ink prints by Charles Wiese. The prints were made with an Iris printer, a large-format color inkjet printer introduced by Iris Graphics. Iris printers were among the first able to produce high-quality output. These pieces are located on the second floor of the College of Technology Building. Pastoral, Lin Emery (2011) This 15-foot-tall kinetic sculpture stands outside of Brazos Hall. It is made out of polished aluminum and stainless steel ad moves in the wind. It utilizes a sophisticated system of bearings to ensure smooth and random movement within the individual parts. The leaflike forms seem to disappear in the sky and will reflect the surrounding brick, concrete and trees, while at the same time reflecting the sun’s light against the ground and building. This piece is located in front of Brazos Hall. Group of 14 Torch Drawings, Helen Altman (2001-2012) This collection of drawings were made by using a blow torch as a drawing tool, scorching lines into paper, creating soft and remarkably detailed images of Texas animals. These pieces are located on the first floor of Brazos Hall. Suite of 10 Digital Photographs, Donna Reidland Bourret (1995) A set of 10 chromogenic prints by Donna Reidland Bourret. Chromogenic prints, also know as type C photographs or C-type prints, can be made from a digital image via a chromogenic process. These pieces are located on the second floor of the College of Technology Building. Too Much To Say, Lance Letscher (2014) Texas artist Lance Letscher searches thrift stores, junk shops, and used bookstores for old ledgers, notebooks, diaries, handwritten lists, letters, and recipe cards as material for his meticulous collages. His collages reference memory, personal histories and ultimately create disjointed narratives in the process. This collage on masonite is located in the Multipurpose Room of Brazos Hall. Brazos Trace, Liz Ward, Rob Ziebel, Anthony Thompson Shumate (2006) The inspiration for Brazos Trace is the Brazos River, a major geographical feature adjacent to the campus. The curving panels of the piece create the visual effect of a river descending through the atrium space. The riverlike panels are patterned with images relating to the cultural and natural history of the Brazos. This piece is located in the atrium of the George Building. 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies