Partnerships - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Partnerships Partnerships Community. Diversity. Connection. Explore ways to partner with UH at Sugar Land, an instructional site of the University of Houston. Innovation opportunities Cooperative agreements Workforce development programs/internships Scholarship/funding opportunities UH at Sugar Land features programs from the UH Colleges of Nursing, Technology, Education, Liberal Arts & Social Sciences, as well as the UH Graduate College of Social Work and the Bauer College of Business. Learn more about UH at Sugar Land Strategic Planning UH at Sugar Land is planning for the future. We invite you to review Higher Expectations: A Strategic Plan for the University of Houston at Sugar Land. Learn more. Contact us: Join the University of Houston at Sugar Land to fuel the ambition and drive of our Fort Bend County region. Beth Johnson, Executive Director of Public Relations and Community Partnerships Email: slpartnerships@uh.edu Phone: 713-743-1094 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies