Campus Life - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home Campus Life Campus Life Page contents: Places to See Arts & Culture Where to Live Where to Eat Stay Active & Healthy Get Involved Parking & Transportation University Career Services Experience Life on Campus Welcome to the Powerhouse. The University of Houston provides countless opportunities to meet new people, listen to distinguished lecturers, nourish your talents, experience public art from renowned artists and become involved with the community and various student organizations while living in one of the most exciting cities in the nation. Campus Map The Daily Cougar Campus Safety Launch Experience Places to See The campus life offers the vibe of a small community set amongst the urban offerings of Houston. Our on-campus offerings include restaurants, art exhibits, activity centers, live performances and athletic events which make our university much more than a place to learn — it's a place to thrive. Tour the Campus Student Center At UH the Student Center is the hub of student life. Equipped with north and south wings, the Student Center is home to student organizations, study and social areas, a food court, campus shops, IT services and an on-campus game room complete with a bowling alley. M.D. Anderson Library The M.D. Anderson Library has one of the best academic collections in the city. The library features a state of the art recording studio, technology training and daily events. Our special collections even include the Houston Hip Hop Collections. Lynn Eusan Park Centrally located, this park is where visitors to campus can relax and enjoy the day go by or catch one of the many performances scheduled throughout the year. TDECU Stadium Our 40,000 seat, open stadium is home of the UH Cougar's football team. Fertitta Center Home to UH men's and women's basketball teams. Darryl & Lori Schroeder Park Known for its fan-friendly atmosphere and spacious accommodations, seating 3,500, the park is the proud home of the UH baseball team. Arts & Culture If you’re looking to expand your mind there’s no other place to go than the on campus arts district. Blaffer Art Museum The Blaffer Gallery contemporary art museum is dedicated to emerging and underrepresented artists. The Blaffer is a free arts gateway that inspires dialogue between the city of Houston and UH. Cullen Performance Hall Cullen Performance Hall is the perfect venue for concerts, lectures, comedy and more on campus at the University of Houston. Moores Opera Center The Rebecca and John J. Moores School of Music features musical entertainment that ranges from opera productions to jazz ensembles. Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts The Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts is dedicated to interdisciplinary collaboration across the performing, visual, and literary arts. Public Art UHS Public Art of the University of Houston System is a collection of public artworks by acclaimed local, regional, national, and international artists across all forms of media and styles. Where to Live Student Housing & Residential Life is a department within Student Affairs consisting of three primary areas: Residential Life, Operations, and Housing and Conference Services. Students live in seven distinct housing areas that provide a comprehensive student services program. These areas are managed by full-time, live-in staff members, including professional Residence Life Coordinators, faculty-in-residence and Resident Advisors (student staff). Residential Requirements Find the student requirements to live in on-campus residential housing. Tour a Residence Hall Schedule a guided campus tour which will include the residence halls. Housing Options View the options for on campus housing, from single suite living to shared apartments. Housing Rates Find housing to fit in your budget. Where to Eat The University of Houston has a variety of dining options to choose from. Student meal plans are healthy, flexible affordable, and may be used in our dining halls 24/7. In addition, there are a variety of retail and food truck options to satisfy every palate. The Student Center Satellite is also home to the largest food court on campus. This is a great place to grab pizza, sushi, halal certified Indian cuisine or a coffee. So stop by with friends after class. For the most current information regarding the University of Houston's Dining services, visit the following: Dining Services Dining Halls Meal Plans You may also download the UH Go app to get the daily scoop on campus menu items. Stay Active and Healthy Get moving with outdoor adventure activities. Get involved with group fitness classes. Get involved with intramural sports. Get fit with a personal trainer. Get experience with first aid. Campus Recreation UH Wellness Get Involved Whether you’re interested in joining a club, holding a leadership position or attending a signature campus event, there are a number of opportunities for you to connect with your fellow Coogs. Browse Student Organizations Get Involved Freedom Of Expression Parking & Transportation Your security is our number one priority. We offer added security for those moving around campus. If you feel you may need a walking safety escort at any time, please call 713-743-3333. Campus Parking To park on campus, you must display a valid UH parking permit at all times unless parked in visitor parking. Campus Shuttle Getting around campus is convenient and free for students, faculty, and staff. Ride the Cougar Line. MetroBus and Rail Students receive discounted fares on the MetroBus and Rail. Conveniently travel to and from campus. Zipcar Students can rent a car by the hour or day. Gas and insurance included. University Career Services University Career Services connects UH students and alumni with recruiters seeking opportunities for career, job and internship positions. With available services and resources, University Career Services empower students development, implementation, and networking events to support their career goals. Cougar Pathway Career hub for students and alumni to connect with employers and faculty/staff. Upcoming Events View upcoming workshops, special events and career fairs for students and alumni. Recruiters/Corporations Post internships and full-time jobs to Connect with Houston Talent. Student Resources Explore, learn and plan for your career with UCS online resources. The UH campus offers both a place to learn and a place to have fun. With everything located within walking distance on campus, UH Cougars enjoy the feeling of a small campus community nestled within the bustling urban city. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies