Faculty - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications Faculty Here at the University of Houston, we want you to succeed. We want to create a welcoming environment for you on campus, a flexible environment that values your home life, and an environment that feeds into your surrounding community. We are home to award-winning faculty, innovative research centers, one of the most diverse student populations in the nation, and alumni who have become international leaders. Welcome to UH. Welcome to the Powerhouse. - Paula Myrick Short, Provost University of Houston Powerhouse Faculty Learn what it's like to live and work in the vibrant city of Houston and on the lush University of Houston campus. We are proud of our Tier One University, our exciting city of Houston, and our great state of Texas! If you would like additional information on career opportunities at UH, please visit UH Careers. Teaching The Office of the Provost is committed to providing useful resources that allow faculty to create classroom environments that facilitate student engagement and success. This includes innovative teaching grants, technology trainings, instructional support, and more. Research Learn the ins and outs related to research at UH through contracts, compliance, intellectual property, and animal care. Work-Life Balance Maintain a work-life balance through sick leave, family and medical leave, parental leave, and dual career programs. Find information about the Children’s Learning Centers, Summer Camps, the UH Charter School, and the Collaborative for Children. Professional Development Strengthen your skills in leadership, management, and professional development through trainings, programs, and funds to make your career a success. Resources UH Offices A-Z Human Resources Promotion and Tenure Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Grievance Policy Non-Tenure Track Policy Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) 50-in-5 Initiative M.A.P.P. (Manual of Administrative Policies & Procedures) S.A.M. (System Administrative Memoranda) Equal Opportunity Services FERPA FMLA Annual Performance Evaluation Textbook and Educational Materials Policy Academic Honesty Policy Roles and Responsibilities of Department Chairs Selected Topics and Independent Study Courses Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Measurement and Evaluation Center (MEC) University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies