Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Relaxed Parking Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Relaxed Parking There are certain times of the year when non-restrictive parking is in effect. These relaxed parking rules allow anyone with a valid University of Houston parking permit to park in any non-restricted space in any ungated lot, regardless of the day or time. This does not include the evening-weekend permit, which can only be used on campus after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday, and all day weekends. Relaxed parking is in effect: Spring break (entire spring break week) Thanksgiving break (3 p.m. Wednesday before Thanksgiving until 7 a.m. Monday) Winter break (3 p.m. on the last day of fall regular session 1 classes until 7 a.m. the first day of spring semester) Summer (3 p.m. on the last day of spring regular session 1 classes through the day prior to first day of fall classes) On the following holidays: MLK Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day and Labor Day There are nine ungated lots on campus that do not allow overnight parking between the hours of 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. This map details the location of those lots. The relaxed parking rules DO NOT apply to these lots. If you park in these lots between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m. – even when relaxed parking is in effect – your vehicle will be towed. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies