Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost About Deans of Colleges and Libraries About Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Staff Contact Information For general office inquiries, please call the main line at 832-842-0550. For all other inquiries, please contact Cindy Mejia, Chief of Staff. Deans of Colleges and Libraries The University of Houston has 18 deans overseeing the 17 academic colleges and the UH Libraries. Deans are the chief executive officers of their college or school and report to the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Andrew C. Davis Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Patricia Belton Oliver C.T. Bauer College of Business Paul Pavlou College of Education Robert McPherson Cullen College of Engineering Joseph W. Tedesco Graduate College of Social Work Alan J. Dettlaff Hobby School of Public Affairs Jim Granato Honors College Stuart Long, Interim Dean Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership Dennis Reynolds UH Law Center Leonard Baynes College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Daniel P. O'Connor College of Medicine Stephen J. Spann College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Dan Wells College of Nursing Kathryn Tart College of Optometry Michael Twa College of Pharmacy F. Lamar Pritchard College of Technology Tony Ambler University of Houston Libraries Athena N. Jackson University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies