Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Vending Services University of Houston at Katy About Us News & Events Strategic Planning Campus and Academic Services Room Request Printing Services Campus Security Vending Services Reservations Vending Services Getting hungry while you study on campus? There are several dining and vending options to meet the needs of our busy students. Food and drinks are allowed in general areas and study areas. With faculty permission, students are allowed to bring drinks and food into general classrooms. Food and drinks are prohibited in computer labs, instructional television classrooms and science labs. On-campus Store Students, faculty and staff can purchase food, beverages and snacks from the on-campus convenience store. The store is located on the first floor near the front entrance. It accepts credit cards and ShastaBUCKS. Nearby Campus 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies