Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation COAST Alternative Transportation Program Discounted Student METRO Fare Cards Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Houston METRO Vanpools through METRO Star Zipcar Carpooling Cycling Uber/Lyft Eligibility Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's News Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4700 Calhoun Road University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments parking@uh.edu Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Tel. 832-842-1097 parking@uh.edu UH at Sugar Land Albert & Mamie George Building 14000 University Blvd., Room 101 Sugar Land, TX 77479 Tel. 832-842-3060 parking@uh.edu Discounted Student Fare Cards UH students are eligible for discounted METRO fare cards and passes. To sign up, log in to myParking account via AccessUH and click on the "Get Permits" option under the "Permits" button in the top navigation bar. This tutorial takes you through each step of the process. To help you decide which METRO card/pass is best for you, use the chart below to see the features of each product. Regardless of whether you choose a Q Fare Card or a Day Pass, each is reloadable and offers free transfers for 3 hours when used in the same direction of travel. Q Fare Card Day Pass Offers a 50% discount on all METRO routes, including local bus, METRORail and Park & Ride service Offers unlimited local bus and METRORail services with just 3 paid taps of your card Best value for riders who use METRO only once or twice per day Best value for frequent local bus and METRORail riders who travel three or more times daily Offers 5 free rides for every 50 paid rides. Students never pay more than $1.50/day to ride unlimited local bus and METRORail service Lost or stolen cards must be reported and replaced at METRO's Downtown Ride Store. METRO Treasury Office 1900 Main Street 1st Floor Houston, TX 77002 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies