Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Information Session: Horizon Europe Monday, May 16, 2022 2:00 pm - 3:30 pm Horizon Europe is the European Union funding program for research and innovation with a budget of €95.5 billion over 7 years until 2027. It tackles climate change, helps to achieve the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, and boosts the EU’s competitiveness and growth. Horizon Europe is open to U.S. participants bringing their own funding. However, for some of the mobility grants and for research on health-related topics, U.S. participants can be funded directly by the European Commission. In both cases, U.S. participants will have access to the best research and innovation groups in Europe. Florent Bernard, Ph.D., Counsellor for Research and Innovation of the European Union Delegation to the U.S. will present collaborative research opportunities for UH researchers. These opportunities include postdoctoral fellowships for U.S. residents going to the EU+ Associated Countries (AC) and for EU+AC residents going to visit U.S. universities. There are additional opportunities where U.S. participants with their own funding can establish collaborations with their European colleagues, in particular in the areas of creative industries and inclusive society; civil security for society; digital, industry and space; climate, energy and mobility; and food, bioeconomy, natural resources, agriculture and environment. Register University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies