Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Library Campus Services Information Technology Library Dining Services Campus Security Facilities Room Request Bookstore Shuttle Service Parking Campus Safety Room Reservations UH Library Links UH Library UH Library support for Distance Education courses Library The University Branch Library serves the UH at Sugar Land students, faculty, staff and community. Library cards are needed to borrow any items and may be obtained during library business hours. Please check the Fort Bend County Library System page for the University Branch's hours. Academic Liaisons Academic liaisons at University Branch offer the following services to students and faculty. For more information contact the Academic Liaisons below or email UBLiaison@fortbend.lib.tx.us. Academic Liaison: Jenifer Norville jenifer.norville@fortbend.lib.tx.us 281-633-5164 Assistant Academic Liaison: Kimberly Dulin kdulin@fortbend.lib.tx.us 281-633-5166 Library Resources For Students For Faculty Academic Reserves: Borrow reserved books for in-house use only in exchange for a driver’s license. Call 281-633-5150 or email the liaisons to check on a textbook reservation. UH Research Databases Guidance: Students receive guidance as a group or one-on-one. Email the academic liaison to make an appointment. Citation Assistance: Individual or study groups can request APA or MLA documentation/citation assistance. Email the academic liaison to make an appointment. Pick-up for UH Library items: Pick up requested items from UH at the University Branch (select “Sugar Land library” as the pick up location) and return UH library items at University Branch. Study Rooms: Private rooms are available for two-hour periods per person/group per day. First come, first served. Bring a current student ID or a driver’s license to reserve a space. Suggest a title: Emailing the academic liaisons with complete information (Title, author, ISBN number, class associated with the book). Academic Reserves: Place materials on reserve for students in your UH Sugar Land classes. Call 281-633-5150 or email the liaisons for assistance. Library Services Orientation: This service acquaints students with library liaison services and facilities. Fill out a UH at Sugar Land Library Orientation Request Form and email it to ubliaison@fortbend.lib.tx.us Coordinated Instruction: A brief introduction to the library along with research guidance regarding a particular assignment. Liaisons offer instruction to students in their classrooms. Fill out a UH Sugar Land Library Orientation Request Form and email it to ubliaison@fortbend.lib.tx.us Meeting Rooms: Offer programs of interest to our library patrons and community. Review the Meeting Room policies and procedures information on the branch's website. Suggest a title: Academic journals/periodicals also part of our collection. Suggest the acquisition of library materials for classes by emailing the liaisons with complete information (Title, author, ISBN number, class that is associated with the book). 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies