Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Confession Wednesday, May 4, 2022 2:00 pm - 4:00 pm The Sacrament of Confession reconciles us with God. The whole power of the sacrament of Penance consists in restoring us to God’s grace and joining us with him in an intimate friendship (CCC, no. 1468). Confession is an experience of the gift of God’s boundless mercy. Not only does it free us from our sins but it also challenges us to have the same kind of compassion and forgiveness for those who sin against us. We are liberated to be forgivers. We obtain new insight into the words of the Prayer of St. Francis: It is in pardoning that we are pardoned. Confession hour by Catholic Newman Association on Wednesdays at the A.D. Bruce Religion Center Office 108. Location Office 108, Catholic Newman Office at A.D Bruce Religion Center Cost Free University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies