Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Community Services Bike Registration Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Bike Security Special Events Money Transfer Requests Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Bicycle Registration Why Register? Bicycle theft is big business on college campuses nationwide. As the price for new bicycles increases each year, their resale value also increases. The University of Houston Police Department encourages you to take a few simple steps that may protect you from becoming the victim of bicycle theft. One of the most important steps is registering your bicycle on your UH Parking account. Registration is required of all students, faculty and staff who have a bicycle on campus. Registration takes only minutes to complete and is of no cost to you. Registration, along with adequate locking mechanisms, decreases the likelihood your bicycle will be stolen, and significantly increases the likelyhood that it will be recovered. Owner and bicycle information will be recorded and maintained in a computer database for future use if it is needed in the event of loss or theft. A numbered registration sticker will be provided to be affixed to your bicycle frame to make identification by police easier. Registration often provides the only means of returning a stolen bicycle once it is recovered by police. How to Register: For more information about the process of registering your bicycle, please visit Parking and Transportation's Bicycle Registration information page. If you have questions about bicycle registration please reach out to Parking and Transportation at parking@uh.edu. Tips for Keeping Your Bicycle Safe: Please visit our resource page on securing your bicycle. 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies