Orientation - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are New Student Orientation Page contents: About Orientation Your Orientation Process Orientation Dates FAQs Policies AMA Chats Accessibility So, you're officially a Cougar! You’ve worked hard to get here, and your time at the University of Houston is about to start. New Student Orientation is a mandatory two-day experience for incoming freshman where you'll get to meet fellow new Coogs, current student leaders, faculty and staff. The first day is focused on connecting and engaging with the UH community and learning about services that are here to help you succeed. The second day is focused on academic integration into UH as you connect with your prospective academic college and register for classes! New Student Orientation will build your Cougar Pride and set you up for success at the University of Houston. Go Coogs! Check out this sample schedule to get a feel of what your New Student Orientation experience could look like. Your Orientation Process Before Orientation Step 1 Secure your spot at UH by registering for orientation through your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Review our step-by-step instructions and video. Step 2 Complete your Pre-Orientation modules before your orientation date. Available on your my.uh.edu self-service portal on May 2. Removes Pre-Orientation Hold Step 3: Attend Your Orientation Date Day 1 Engage with student resources, campus partners, and learn about the rich history and traditions of the University of Houston. Removes New Student Orientation Hold Day 2 Meet with your academic college to discuss your degree plan and select courses. Removes Freshman Orientation Advising Hold Register for Courses! Orientation Dates June 2 – 3* June 9 – 10 June 16 – 17 June 21 – 22 June 27 – 28 June 30 – July 1** July 19 – 20 July 25 – 26 July 28 – 29 *Available for incoming Fall 2022 and Summer 2022 students starting classes for Sessions 1, 2, and 3 of the Summer 2022 semester. **Available for incoming Fall 2022 and Summer 2022 students starting classes for Sessions 4 of the Summer 2022 semester. Frequently Asked Questions Expand AllCollapse All How do I cancel or reschedule an orientation? Follow these step-by-step instructions to log in to your myUH self-service portal to manage your orientation schedule. How do I remove the orientation holds on my account? Incoming Freshman Students: Pre-Orientation New Student Orientation Freshman Orientation Advising The Pre-Orientation hold will be removed when you complete the pre-orientation modules. If you are already registered for orientation, use the instructions to access and complete your pre-orientation modules. Make sure you have pop-up blockers disabled: Step 1: Log in to your myUH Account. Step 2: Click on the "Student Admissions" tab. Step 3: Click the "Online Orientation" tab on your left. Step 4: Click "Go to Online Orientation." The New Student Orientation hold will be removed from a student’s account within 24 hours of completing the Self-Paced Online Orientation Modules through your AccessUH account. The Freshman Orientation Advising hold will be removed at the discretion of your academic college. Specific advising information will be provided in the pre-orientation modules and the academic college meeting of your orientation. What is the cost of orientation and how do I register? At the time of registration, orientation is $150 for incoming first year students. Payment for orientation is due before you can view and select an orientation date through your myUH portal. Use these step-by-step instructions to register for orientation. Do you offer a fee waiver for orientation? UH does not offer fee waivers for orientation, however, a fee deferment may be provided to students who demonstrate financial need prior to orientation. A fee deferment adds the $150 orientation fee to a student’s tuition and fee bill instead of requiring them to pay $150 prior to registering for orientation. To be eligible for a fee deferment, a student must meet BOTH of the following criteria. We reserve the right to deny a student’s request for a fee deferment without sufficient proof of need: You have an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of $0-$2000 according to your on-file FAFSA application. You have an incoming PELL or TEXAS grant for the intended semester of enrollment. Payment is due by the tuition and fee bill deadline. Any student who attends orientation will be required to pay the orientation fee whether the fee was deferred or the student attended a previous orientation from another term. Additionally, the orientation fee payment is still required if the student does not enroll in the university after attending orientation. If payment is not made, a financial delinquency hold will be placed on the student’s account. If you meet the criteria listed above, please use our form to submit a request for a fee deferment. How do I change my major before attending orientation? Follow the steps below to change your major before attending New Student Orientation: Review the admissions requirements for the major you want to switch into: Freshman Admissions Requirements Freshman Majors with Additional Requirements Complete the Change of Major form five business days before your live orientation. You will receive an email notification regarding the status of your major change before attending orientation. What happens to my in-person orientation if it cannot be conducted in-person? In the event that an orientation session cannot be conducted in-person, the session will occur on the same date in a virtual capacity. Where can I park? For Freshman Orientation, students and guests may park in the Zone E parking lot right off Wheeler St. Specific parking instructions will be sent to you, one week before your orientation and again the day before your orientation. Why am I required to stay overnight? What if I live across the street and/or I’m not planning to live on campus? All students attending a 2-Day Freshman Orientation must spend the night at orientation. The overnight portion of the program has been specifically designed to give you a chance to become familiar with campus and meet your peers. Through various planned academic and social activities, you will experience a taste of college, and the overnight stay will ensure that you are on time for the second day's early start. Where do students stay overnight? All students attending a 2-Day Freshman Orientation are required to stay overnight and will spend the evening in the Cougar Village II Residence Hall. Linens are NOT provided, and you will need to bring your own blankets and toiletries from home. 2-Day Freshman Orientations are only hosted in the summer. What do I need to bring for my New Student Orientation overnight stay? We require you to bring the following items for an overnight stay: Linens and towels for your overnight stay The bed is a twin sized bed so you will need twin-sized sheets, blanket, pillow, etc. Toiletries Soap Deodorant Shampoo Conditioner Hair Dryer Toothbrush Toothpaste Medicine/medication Clothes for your second day of orientation Government-issued photo ID This is only used to take your picture for your Cougar Card. We do not ask for your ID at orientation. Final transcripts from your high school and/or former college(s) if you haven’t submitted them to UH already Casual clothes, including comfortable, closed-toe walking shoes Water bottle Umbrella or raincoat A jacket or sweater The meeting rooms will be cold. What if I need special accommodations? Email orientation@uh.edu at least one week prior to your orientation date if you need assistance during your orientation. I was admitted as a freshman, but I’ll be a transfer student in the fall. Which orientation do I go to? Your orientation session is determined by the type of student you were admitted as for the semester you applied for. For example, if you were admitted as a Freshman student for the fall semester, but now you have enough credits to be a Transfer student, you will still be required to come to Freshman Orientation. We cannot change your orientation to another orientation session. Can my family or guest members attend orientation and how do I add them? Yes! If you have a family or guest who wants to support you in your transition to UH, encourage them to register for Family & Guest Orientation. For first year orientation, each guest will pay a $60 fee. They can attend a live orientation session on the same dates as your orientation session. Some portions of orientation programming are planned for you and your guest to experience together while other sessions are just for you, and will separate you from your guest. > Learn more and register for Family & Guest Orientation Where do guests stay? More information coming soon! Can I bring my friend/sibling /family member with me to Orientation? Parents and guardians are welcome at all orientations and, if attending, will follow a separate schedule of events. Because of the nature of the program, it is not appropriate for anyone except parents/guardians or spouses to attend as a guest. Friends or siblings are not allowed to accompany you. Guests under 18 will not be able to attend Family & Guest Orientation without a parent or guardian. The exception would be an older sibling who is acting in a guardian capacity; however, in this case, the sibling would attend the Family Member Orientation and would not be with you during any time parents and students are not ordinarily together. Policies Expand AllCollapse All Exemptions from Completing Orientation All incoming students to the University of Houston for the Summer and Fall 2022 semester are required to attend a live orientation session. However, if a student meets one of the criteria below, they will be exempt from completing orientation: Student has paid and attended a New Student Orientation within the last 12 months. Student will be non-degree seeking AND is not planning to transition to a degree seeking student. Student has been admitted as a post-baccalaureate student in the College of Education. Students who meet any of the above criteria can complete an exemption form. Staff will verify the exemption and, if criteria is met, remove both holds within 24 – 48 business hours. If exemption criteria is not met, the student will be notified within 24 – 48 business hours. Accommodation to attend Virtual Orientation All incoming students to the University of Houston for the Summer and Fall 2022 semester are required to attend an orientation session. However, if you meet one of the criteria below, you can receive an accommodation to attend a synchronous Virtual Orientation: Student will be completing the Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) - UH Extend online-only degree program. Student has a documented medical condition spanning the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation dates. Student’s permanent address is over 300+ miles from the University of Houston main campus. Student will be traveling during the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation date. Examples may include a mission trip or studying abroad. Acceptable forms of documentation include: a confirmed airline ticket, train ticket, etc. spanning the dates of all orientation sessions. Student is or will be serving military orders during the entirety of the offered orientation dates, which prevents them from attending any in-person orientation date. Students who meet any of the above criteria can complete a Virtual Orientation Accommodation form to attend orientation on either June 7 or July 27. UH reserves the right to deny a student’s request for Virtual Orientation without sufficient documentation of need. Overnight Exemptions and Accommodations For incoming first-year students attending an in-person orientation, there is a two-day overnight component to the planned programming. Students can request an exemption from spending the night at a New Student Orientation or request an overnight accommodation under certain circumstances. All requests will be reviewed and granted on a case-by-case basis. To request an exemption or accommodation, at least one of the following must apply: Student has a documented medical condition prohibiting them from staying overnight in the residence hall. Students in these exemption categories will be required to provide documentation. Student’s religious beliefs do not allow them to stay overnight in the residence hall. Student’s gender identity does not align with the sex indicated on their UH application. (Student can request to be housed according to their gender identity.) Students who meet any of the above criteria can complete an Overnight Exemption or Accommodation form. Fee Deferment UH does not offer fee waivers for orientation, however, a fee deferment may be provided to students who demonstrate need for orientation. A fee deferment adds the $150 orientation fee to a student’s tuition and fee bill instead of requiring them to pay $150 prior to registering for orientation. To be eligible for a fee deferment, a student must meet BOTH of the following criteria. We reserve the right to deny a student’s request for a fee deferment without sufficient proof of need: You have an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of $0-$2000 according to your on-file FAFSA application. You have an incoming PELL or TEXAS grant for the intended semester of enrollment. Payment is due by the tuition and fee bill deadline. Any student who attends orientation will be required to pay the orientation fee whether the fee was deferred or the student attended a previous orientation from another term. Additionally, the orientation fee payment is still required if the student does not enroll in the university after attending orientation. If payment is not made, a financial delinquency hold will be placed on the student’s account. If you meet the criteria listed above, please use this form to submit a request for a fee deferment. Orientation Fees and Refunds At the time of registration, orientation is $150. Payment for orientation is due before you can view and select an orientation date through your myUH portal. Use these step-by-step instructions to register for orientation. For in-person freshmen orientation sessions, the family and guest orientation fee is $60. For family and guest members who choose a virtual orientation option, the orientation fee is $0. All orientation fees for both students and family and guest members are non-refundable. Early Arrival Students who need to arrive the evening before their orientation may receive a housing accommodation at Cougar Village II. Students who have been approved for this accommodation can arrive between 6:00 pm and 8:00 pm on the evening before their orientation to check in with orientation staff. A $30 charge will be added to your student account. Specific information will be sent closer to your check in date. Linens are not provided and you are expected to bring your own linens. Early arrival is unavailable for these orientation dates: May 26, August 8, August 9, and August 11. Use our form to request an early arrival. Ask Me Anything (AMA) Chats We wanted to give you a chance to connect with our Prospective and New Student Programs staff to ask questions, get information, and be directed through the orientation process leading up to enrolling in courses. We will be hosting virtual chats for students to join throughout the orientation process. These chats will be held virtually on Zoom for an hour, and you can register using the links below. New Student AMA Chats Schedule: This session will provide the opportunity for students to ask important questions about orientation and transitioning to UH. Date Time Link Friday, April 8, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM Register Here > Wednesday, April 20, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM Register Here > Friday, May 6, 2022 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM Register Here > Wednesday, May 18, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM Register Here > Accessibility All videos are closed captioned for students with accessibility needs. If you need further assistance or have questions about the orientation experience, don’t hesitate to contact us at orientation@uh.edu. Contact Us If you have any questions or concerns related to New Student Orientation that weren't answered above, please contact us at orientation@uh.edu or (713) 743-1010, option 4. We look forward to seeing you! Meet O-Team Facebook Twitter Instagram The Orientation Team (O-Team for short) are your new best friends. Think of them as a family made up of a diverse and unique group of current UH students who serve as leaders across campus. They'll work with you and your family to introduce you to the University of Houston, and all the academic, social, and cultural aspects of becoming a Cougar. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies