Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Faculty/Staff Administrators Recruiting Powerhouse Faculty Standard Operating Procedures Contact Information For questions, please email facultyaffairs@uh.edu. Faculty/Staff Administrators Recruiting Powerhouse Faculty The Office of the Provost through its office of Faculty Recruitment, Retention, Equity, and Diversity strives to ensure that the University of Houston recruits and retains an excellent and diverse faculty. This is accomplished by partnering with search committees and stakeholders to identify and hire the best talent and making sure it is diverse and representative of the talent pool and the UH student population. This toolkit includes resources, guidelines and practical suggestions that will help make this task more productive and successful. Learn More Hiring Process All new faculty appointments are processed through TALEO, the University’s recruitment and application system. Applicants must apply for vacant positions and be selected for hire in Taleo. Please review the Faculty Position Posting Guide for instructions on how to post a position in TALEO. Reappointments are processed via reappointment agreement (see below form). Faculty Position Posting Guide EEO Applicant Review Instructions Faculty Offer Instructions Sign up for a Faculty Search Committee Training Session Faculty Search Committee Training Sessions The University of Houston hosts faculty search committee training sessions to support its commitment to recruit and retain a diverse Powerhouse Faculty that will advance the University’s national competitiveness, student success and community engagement goals. The training focuses on sharing best practices, resources, guidelines and practical suggestions that will help make the search more productive and successful. Search committee members are required to attend one training session every two years prior to their service on a search committee. In summer and fall 2019 we will have multiple training sessions and faculty members will be able to schedule a session that works for their schedule. Sign up for a Faculty Search Committee Training Session Please feel free to contact the Office Faculty Recruitment, Retention, Equity and Diversity at fac-rred@uh.edu or by phone at 713-743-6268. Please see the Taleo Search Committee Quick Guide for information on how to review applicant pools as a search committee member. Instructor Credentials: The University of Houston appoints all tenured, tenure track and non-tenure track faculty and instructors of record in accordance with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges Faculty Credentialing Guidelines (PDF). To determine if an instructor has the appropriate credentials, please review the Instructor Credential Guidelines. If an individual to be appointed instructor of record does not have appropriate academic qualifications, a justification form must be completed to document the instructor’s qualifications and experience. The relationship of the instructor’s qualifications and experience to the specific subject matter and topics covered in the course must be apparent and comprehensively summarized on the form. Justification Form For questions regarding the faculty hiring process, please email facultyaffairs@uh.edu. Relevant Links: Summer 2020 FTE Chart Guidelines for Hiring Faculty with Tenure Offer Letter Templates: Tenure Track Offer Letter Tenured Offer Letter Research Offer Letter Non Tenure Track Offer Letter - Benefits Eligible Non Tenure Track Offer Letter - Non-benefits Eligible Non Tenure Track Reappointment Notification Letter Additional Forms and Policies For additional forms pertaining to faculty, see below. All forms and questions may be submitted to facultyaffairs@uh.edu. Faculty Pay Options Form (.doc) Joint Appointment Request Form (.doc) Request for Leave of Absence Form (.doc) Faculty Separation Form (.doc) Summer Agreement (.doc) Non-Tenure Track Faculty Reappointment Agreement (.doc) Textbook and Educational Materials Policy Faculty Criminal History Investigation (CHRI) For information on the Voluntary Modification of Employment, please contact Faculty Affairs at facultyaffairs@uh.edu. Tenure Track, Clinical and Instructional Faculty Employment Acceptance Form (.doc) Non Tenure Track Faculty Employment Acceptance Form (.docx) Competitive Salary Adjustment Initiative Promotion and Tenure Process The University of Houston promotion and tenure process is an electronic process using a SharePoint site. For confidentiality and security purposes, access to the Site is limited to specific time periods and accessible only by current year candidates and reviewers. Learn More Governance Organizations The following is a collection of links to information about the various governance organizations at the University of Houston central campus. Faculty Senate Research and Scholarship Committee Graduate and Professional Studies Committee Undergraduate Committee Staff Council University Coordinating Commission Student Government Association Board of Regents Meetings and Minutes University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies