Skip to main content Restrict my search to Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate College of Social Work About Welcome Message About Our Dean Mission & Vision Strategic Plan 2017-2021 Faculty Directory Administrative Offices Contact GCSW Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Current Students MSW Course Schedules PhD Course Schedules Student Organizations International Education Scholarships and Financial Support MSW Student Standards & Policies Forms & Procedures Student Resources Graduation Guide Prospective Students Apply Now MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Scholarships and Financial Support Connect with Us Research Child and Family Center for Innovative Research Maternal Health Equity Research and Training Center MH-RITES Research Center SUSTAIN Wellbeing COMPASS Coordinating Center upEND Movement H.E.A.R. Lab News & Events GCSW in the News Events GCSW Stories Community Events Eyes on Abolition ONWARD I The Next 50 Years Racial Justice Symposium GCSW Mural Renovation Project GCSW E-News Photo Galleries Video Gallery Noteworthy Office of Communications Giving Current Funding Opportunities Donor Impact Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory UH Home Graduate College of Social Work Academics MSW Program Academics MSW Program Curriculum Overview MSW | Face to Face MSW | Hybrid Program MSW | Online Comparison Chart Areas of Specialized Practice Focused Learning Opportunities Assessment of MSW Student Learning Outcomes Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Nonprofit Leadership Alliance MSW Program The University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW), established by the Texas Legislature in 1967, provides master's level education for the practice of professional social work. The social work profession has as its primary goal the enhancement of social functioning of all persons as individuals, family members, community participants, and members of society. Social work practice is concerned with promoting the well-being of all persons, ameliorating the harmful effects of unhealthy social environments, and striving to achieve social and economic justice. The social worker needs maturity, knowledge, and skill to provide direct services or to develop programs that encourage maximum development of human potential. Thus, the purposes of graduate social work education are to encourage a broad based perspective and value system, to provide knowledge for understanding and positively influencing human behavior and social systems, and to develop advanced skills for professional practice. Accreditation: The MSW program has been fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education since 1970. MSW Program Objectives Our goal is to prepare students for responsible, professional practice. The program: Provides a sound base of knowledge and skills for professional practice. Socializes students to the social work profession, including its Code of Ethics and values. Conveys an understanding of the impact of racism, sexism, ageism, heterosexism, ethnocentrism, and classism on individuals, groups, social policies, and institutions. Contributes to the social work profession through knowledge building and research activities aimed toward improving social work practice, policies, and programs. We offer two program options: Full Program (63 sch) Advanced Standing (38 sch for students with a BSW) There are three enrollment model options for the MSW program: Face to Face Hybrid Online A minimum of 63 semester credit hours is required for the MSW degree. All students are required to complete the 16 credit hour foundation semester plus 47 credit hours in the student's concentration and electives. Maximum enrollment for spring and fall is 16 semester credit hours and summer is 6 semester credit hours. Students are admitted into face to face, hybrid, or online enrollment models. Changing from one enrollment plan to another requires prior approval from the advisor. Shown below are models for the 3 enrollment options. Advanced Standing students receive a waiver for 25 credit hours. They are required to complete 38 credit hours in the student's chosen concentration and electives. Maximum enrollment for spring and fall is 15 semester credit hours and summer is 9 semester credit hours. The full-time MSW program (face-to-face enrollment option) can be completed in two calendar years of full-time study. The part-time MSW program (hybrid and online options) can be completed in three calendar years of part-time study. Related Links Faculty Directory: Graduate College of Social Work MSW Course Schedule: Graduate College of Social Work View Book Mission and Vision Statement College Brochure View Book Contact the MSW Program 713-743-8075 gcswinfo@uh.edu University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies