Nonprofit Leadership Alliance: University of Houston - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate College of Social Work About Welcome Message About Our Dean Mission & Vision Strategic Plan 2017-2021 Faculty Directory Administrative Offices Contact GCSW Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Current Students MSW Course Schedules PhD Course Schedules Student Organizations International Education Scholarships and Financial Support MSW Student Standards & Policies Forms & Procedures Student Resources Graduation Guide Prospective Students Apply Now MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Scholarships and Financial Support Connect with Us Research Child and Family Center for Innovative Research Maternal Health Equity Research and Training Center MH-RITES Research Center SUSTAIN Wellbeing COMPASS Coordinating Center upEND Movement H.E.A.R. Lab News & Events GCSW in the News Events GCSW Stories Community Events Eyes on Abolition ONWARD I The Next 50 Years Racial Justice Symposium GCSW Mural Renovation Project GCSW E-News Photo Galleries Video Gallery Noteworthy Office of Communications Giving Current Funding Opportunities Donor Impact Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory UH Home Graduate College of Social Work Academics Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Connect With Us Why NLA? Graduate College of Social Work 3511 Cullen Blvd Room 117 Houston, TX 77204-4013 Tel. (713) 743-8075 Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Since 1993, the David M. Underwood Chapter of the Nonprofit Leadership Alliance (NLA) at the University of Houston (UH) has served as a Nonprofit Management Certificate and Credential Program available to undergraduate students from any degree program. As of Spring 2022, the program is also available to graduate students pursuing the Master of Social Work degree at the UH Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW). The NLA provides students the opportunity to become Certified Nonprofit Professionals (CNP) based on core competencies set by the national NLA, Inc. These include: Communication, Marketing, and Public Relations Cultural Competency and Diversity Financial Resource Development and Management Foundations and Management in the Nonprofit Sector Governance, Leadership, and Advocacy Legal and Ethical Decision Making Personal and Professional Development Program Development Volunteer and Human Resource Management Future of the Nonprofit Sector The mission of the NLA is to strengthen the social network with a talented, prepared workforce. Many of our alumni currently work in a variety of positions throughout the nonprofit sector, and we are proud to serve as the nonprofit workforce development pipeline in our community. While the NLA program works with both undergraduate and graduate students at UH, it is housed under the GCSW. Given the significant role the nonprofit sector plays in addressing the needs of the community, the NLA proudly supports the GCSW’s mission to prepare diverse leaders in practice and research to address complex challenges and achieve sustainable social, racial, economic, and political justice, locally and globally, through exceptional education, innovative research, and meaningful community engagement. CLICK HERE to find out more about the NLA and how you may become a Certified Nonprofit Professional. Please direct all inquiries to NLA@central.uh.edu. Giving to NLA Ways to Donate Want to support the NLA’s work to prepare our future nonprofit leaders? Click here and select the David M. Underwood Chapter of the Nonprofit Leadership Alliance in the drop-down menu. Learn more » Social Media Connect with NLA Keep up with the NLA via our social media accounts. Learn more » University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies