Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Parking University of Houston at Katy About Us News & Events Strategic Planning Campus and Academic Services Room Request Printing Services Campus Security Vending Services Reservations Parking Parking Upcoming News Parking & Transportation Services will be at the University of Houston at Katy January 18-20 to sell/distribute parking permits and answer questions. Parking customer service representatives will be in the lobby area from 2-5 p.m. all three days to help students, faculty and staff. They will be able to: Help you purchase a parking permit; Provide permits to those who purchased one online after January 10; Answer parking-related questions Buying a Parking Permit UH at Katy parking permits are $70 and are now available for purchase online through your myParking account in AccessUH. The price will remain $70 until January 31. Please purchase in advance so you will receive it in the mail in plenty of time for the start of the spring semester. If you don't have a parking permit at the start of the spring semester, you will still be able to use the parking lot by paying for hourly parking with a credit or debit card. Visitor rates are posted on Parking & Transportation's website. If you already have another valid University of Houston parking permit, you will be able to use it to park at UH at Katy. (Please note: the evening-weekend permit cannot be used until after 3 p.m. Monday-Friday.) Your UH at Katy parking permit can only be used in Katy. It cannot be used to park at the main campus, UH at Sugar Land or the UH Technology Bridge. 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies