About UH at Sugar Land - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land About Us About Us DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. WE ARE UH AT SUGAR LAND. The University of Houston at Sugar Land is UH, Tier One higher education in greater Fort Bend County. An instructional site of the University of Houston, UH at Sugar Land welcomes students who are core-complete and ready to pursue studies in our innovative programs, or major in one of the unique UH programs offered here. We are industry partners, student-centered and community inspired, serving Houston-area students with state-of-the-art facilities and flexible schedules close to home and work. Our History > Public Art on Campus > GREETINGS! A message from Jay Neal, Associate Vice President, Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer, UH Sugar Land and UH Katy: Hello and Welcome to the University of Houston at Sugar Land where students pursue their Tier One academic dreams close to their Fort Bend homes. UH at Sugar Land is an instructional site of the University of Houston and home to more than 20 academic programs—undergraduate and graduate—to help students become productive, successful professionals. As the Chief Operating Officer of UH at Sugar Land and UH at Katy, I listen…to students, parents, supporters and other stakeholders in our Fort Bend County home. The success of our students is my main concern because their success feeds into the success of our region. Surrounding them with Tier One faculty, state-of-the art facilities, programs and experiential learning opportunities unique to our campuses, positions them and us for success. This campus is more than my day job. Fort Bend County is my home, and where my wife and I have raised our four children. We are invested in the success of this area and the University of Houston. Before I moved to UH at Sugar Land, I was a professor for 15 years at the UH Hilton College. I’m also an alum, and you better believe I wear red on Fridays! I hope you’ll come to visit us in Sugar Land, stroll our park-like campus on the banks of the Brazos River or take in artwork that is part of the University’s Public Art Collection. We’re growing with our region … and painting the town Cougar red. Go Coogs! Warmest Regards, Value Statement At the University of Houston at Sugar Land, we value building a legacy of: Diversity: We believe that the strength of our successful region lies in the diversity of our people, traditions, perspectives and talents. We champion that. Relationships: We believe the foundation of all successes are the relationships that lead to meaningful collaborations, impact and growth. We cultivate those. Community: We believe our students, faculty, staff, families, industries, partners and neighbors create the energy for opportunities to move us forward as an institute of higher education. We invest in them. Impact: We believe in creating empathetic leaders who are anchors for the community—the next generation of diversity champions. We are committed. Our History: The University of Houston at Sugar Land is a testament to the strength of a shared vision and the drive for excellence in our community. View our historical timeline » Higher Expectations: A Strategic Plan for the University of Houston at Sugar Land. Academic, student and community leaders are creating a path for the future of UH at Sugar Land. Learn more » Economic Impact Study, Fall 2019 NEED HELP? The University of Houston at Sugar Land is located at the intersection of US-59 south and University Boulevard, just northeast of the Brazos River, one exit south of Sweetwater/First Colony Boulevard. We offer large state-of-the-art classrooms, computer and multimedia laboratories, as well as a campus library and bookstore. Explore our full list of campus services and student resources below. CAMPUS INFORMATION Building Hours Parking Services Transportation Services Directions to Campus Library Bookstore Get a Snack INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Contact IT Service Desk Connect to WiFi Learn about Computing Services Computer Labs MEDIA RELATIONS Emergency Notifications Momentum Newsletter The Cougar UH Today UH Magazine OTHER Contact Security Request a Security Escort 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies