Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Contact Information For questions, please contact Heidi Kennedy, Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Academic Affairs, at 713-743-9187 or by email at hakennedy@central.uh.edu. Frequently Asked Questions Overview FAQs for Faculty FAQs for Students Overview The University of Houston Academic Honesty Policy is posted online in the Undergraduate Studies Catalog and Graduate Catalog. The following FAQs are intended to clarify Academic Honesty processes, not to substitute for the complete policy. It is each faculty member's responsibility to be aware of the Academic Honesty Policy. More details on the Academic Honesty Policy FAQs for Faculty Click each question to view the answer to Frequently Asked Questions. As a faculty member, can I handle possible violations of cheating on my own? The university publishes an Academic Honesty Policy that exists to govern and protect all parties: faculty, students, and staff. Faculty have the responsibility of taking action with respect to incidents of alleged academic honesty in accordance with the Academic Honesty Policy. Consequently, it is not appropriate to deal with possible violations on your own. See Instructor Role in the Process. Why should I deal with cases of Academic Dishonesty? High ethical standards are critical to the integrity of any institution, and bear directly on the ultimate value of conferred degrees. All UH community members are expected to contribute to an atmosphere of the highest possible ethical standards. Colleges and universities best address this issue by confronting suspected instances consistently and in accordance with university policy. What should I do if I suspect cheating? Should I confront the student(s)? In certain situations, such as during the administration of an exam, it may be appropriate to confront the student(s). In other situations, you may confer with the departmental hearing officer, who will advise the student in writing of the suspected violation of the academic honesty policy. What if someone tells me cheating is occurring? During the administration of an exam, you should take steps to insure that cheating does not occur. At other times, you should notify the designated departmental hearing officer. How soon must I act in cases of suspected academic dishonesty? The departmental hearing officer must be notified in writing within five class days of discovery of suspected academic dishonesty. Is a departmental hearing necessary when a student is accused of academic dishonesty? A departmental hearing is not required if a waiver is allowable. May students drop a course with a 'W' if they have been accused of an academic honesty violation? Students may not receive a ' W' for courses in which they have been found guilty of a violation of the Academic Honesty Policy. If a ' W' is received prior to a guilty finding, the student will become liable for the Academic Honesty penalty, including ' F' grades. What is a waiver? A departmental hearing waiver is a mechanism through which a settlement of an academic honesty infraction is achieved – the student acknowledges a violation and accepts an agreed-upon penalty, in lieu of receiving a departmental hearing. Sanctions normally include reduced or zero credit for a test, a grade of ' F' in the course, etc. Sanctions involving disciplinary probation or requiring a college-level hearing (suspension or expulsion), which result in a notation on student transcript, cannot be used in a waiver. The departmental hearing waiver must meet the following requirements: All parties (student, instructor, and departmental hearing officer) must agree, in writing, to a waiver The student must have no prior academic honesty violations The name of a student who elects a departmental hearing waiver will be placed on a list maintained by the department, the dean's office and the provost's office. Following graduation, the student may request that his/her name be removed from waiver lists. Any records concerning these proceedings and any final sanctions are considered part of student records. A Waiver of Automatic College Hearing exists for students who wish to accept a departmentally recommended sanction of suspension or expulsion and thereby waive the automatic college hearing. This specific waiver form is issued from the Dean of Students Office. How can I check to see if the student has a prior academic honesty case on campus? Faculty may contact the Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs at 713-743-9187 or email hkennedy@uh.edu to verify if the student has any prior academic honesty violations or has received a waiver in the past. It is helpful in the request to include the student's name, PeopleSoft identification number and your academic department. How should I, as faculty member, prepare for a departmental hearing? Carefully document all information of a potential academic honesty violation. You may bring individuals to the hearing who have knowledge of the circumstances, and you may bring relevant documentation. If you intend to bring anyone to the hearing, you must notify the departmental hearing officer at least three class days prior to the hearing. Am I required to accept the decision of a departmental hearing? No, faculty members, as well as students, retain equal rights to appeal departmental hearing decisions. What constitutes an appropriate Academic Dishonesty sanction? The sanctions for confirmed breaches of the Academic Honesty Policy shall be commensurate with the nature of the offense and with the record of the student regarding any previous infractions. How can I help prevent plagiarism and cheating in my sections? The Academic Honesty Policy outlines the following ways to minimize academic dishonesty. 2.01 Preventive Measures. Instructors can help students comply with the academic honesty policy by minimizing temptation to act dishonestly. Measures instructors should consider are: Maintaining adequate security precautions in the preparation and handling of tests; Structuring the type and sequence of examination questions so as to discourage dishonesty; Providing ample room for proper spacing of students during examinations, when possible; Monitoring examinations, especially in large classes and in classes where not all students are known to the instructor or the assistant; Making clear to their students the rules concerning the use of electronic devices; Making clear to their students, in writing, what constitutes academic dishonesty, particularly in those classes where group activities (laboratory exercises, generation of field reports, etc.) are part of the instructional process; Requiring students to submit their own work and defining for their students particular aspects of dishonesty, such as plagiarism and self-plagiarism; Requiring students to show a picture ID and sign major assignments and exams; Helping raise consciousness of the issue of academic honesty by asking students to sign an honor pledge in the first week of class and to write a short pledge in their own hand on their major assignments. See additional resources for academic integrity under Resources. How do I know who the departmental/college hearing officer is? The departmental hearing officer facilitates the departmental procedures related to the alleged violation(s) of the academic honesty policy. Typically the department chair serves in the role or an individual designated by the department chair, such as the Assistant/Associate Chair or Director of Undergraduate or Graduate Studies for the Department. The college hearing officer is designated by the dean of the college. Typically the college Associate Dean for Undergraduate or Graduate Studies serves as college hearing officer. How can I get more information? For the complete Academic Honesty Policy, refer to the policy online in the Undergraduate or Graduate Catalog. For assistance or information pertaining to the academic honesty process please contact the Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs, room 207 E. Cullen. Telephone: 713-743-9187. You may also consult with your departmental and college hearing officers. FAQs for Students Click each question to view the answer to Frequently Asked Questions. I have been accused of an Academic Honesty Violation. What happens next? You may have to appear for a departmental hearing or you may be eligible for a waiver of the departmental hearing. See flowcharts of Waiver of Departmental Hearing and Departmental Hearing Process. What are the consequences of an Academic Honesty violation? A violation of the Academic Honesty Policy is a serious offense. Sanctions may include, but are not limited to: a lowered grade, failure on the examination or assignment in question, failure in the course, probation, suspension, or expulsion from the University of Houston, or a combination of these. A sanction of probation or suspension are noted on the student’s transcript. Notations of expulsion because of academic honesty are a permanent part of a student’s transcript. Students are not permitted enrollment under sanctions of suspension and expulsion. An academic honesty violation can result in denial of security clearances and may prevent admission into law, medical, and professional schools. May I drop a course with a 'W' if I am accused of an Academic Honesty Violation? Students may not receive a 'W' for courses in which they have been found guilty of a violation of the Academic Honesty Policy. What is a waiver? If you have no previous Academic Honesty violations and if the recommended sanction is less severe than probation, you may be eligible for a waiver (also called Waiver of Departmental Hearing). This is not to be confused with a Waiver of Automatic College Hearing. A departmental hearing waiver is a document that you, the faculty member, and the departmental hearing officer must sign. By signing the departmental hearing waiver, you acknowledge the Academic Honesty Violation, and all parties agree to accept the recommended sanction. A Waiver of Automatic College Hearing exists for students who wish to accept a departmentally recommended sanction of suspension or expulsion and thereby waive the automatic college hearing. The sanction is then considered a college level decision. This specific waiver form is issued from the Dean of Students Office. What are the consequences of a departmental waiver and how does it differ from a departmental hearing? When agreeing to the waiver of departmental hearing , the departmental sanction you agreed to accept will be assessed against you. Sanctions may include reduced or zero credit for a test, a grade of 'F' in the course, etc. Your name will be placed on academic honesty case lists maintained by the department, college, and provost. An agreement to settle an academic honesty infraction via a waiver of the formal departmental hearing will not result in any record being kept that is reflected on the student’s transcript. Following graduation, you may request that your name be removed from the academic honesty case lists. When a case is resolved by departmental hearing the outcome may be appealed by either the student or instructor. The hearing officer may consider a broader range of sanctions including those that result in notation on transcript (probation, suspension, expulsion) and the student name remains on the case list and may not be removed after graduation. What is an Academic Honesty Hearing? An Academic Honesty Hearing is a hearing concerning an allegation of academic dishonesty. During a hearing the student and faculty member have the opportunity to present and discuss information in support of or against the allegation that the student has violated the academic honesty policy. Departmental hearings typically include the student, instructor and department hearing officer. College hearings include the student, instructor, hearing panel made up of faculty and students, and the college hearing officer. What is a Departmental hearing? If you are not eligible for a waiver (because you have a previous violation; because the suggested sanction is probation or greater; or because you, the departmental hearing officer, and the instructor cannot agree on the waiver), a departmental hearing will occur. You will have the opportunity to present documents and witnesses to the departmental hearing officer in support of your case. The departmental hearing officer will render a decision based on information presented at the hearing. May I bring anyone to the Departmental hearing? Yes. You may bring an individual for support. This person is not allowed to participate in the hearing. Additionally, you (or the faculty member) may bring individuals who have knowledge of the circumstances and who are prepared to testify. If you intend to bring someone to testify, you must inform the departmental hearing officer three class days prior to the hearing. You may also bring legal counsel. This legal counsel will be allowed to advise you but is not allowed to address the departmental hearing officer, the faculty member or any witness presented by you or the faculty member. If you wish to bring legal counsel, you must inform the departmental hearing officer three class days prior to the hearing so that a representative of the University of Houston legal counsel is also present. Can I review the information presented by the faculty member in my academic honesty case? Yes, at the hearing. What should I do if someone else is the person who violated the academic honesty policy? You may present this argument and relevant information at the departmental hearing. Do I have the right to question the accusations against me? Yes, at a departmental hearing you may ask questions relevant to your case. How long will the departmental hearing take? Most hearings last 20-30 minutes. Few last longer than an hour. How will I be informed of the decision made by the departmental hearing officer? In many cases, you will be informed at the conclusion of the hearing. In all cases, you will be informed in writing within three class days after the hearing. Where will my letter be mailed? All required written notices shall be addressed to the student via their UH email. It is the responsibility of the student to keep his/her destination email address up to date on his/her student record ( my.uh.edu). A notice properly addressed and so sent shall be presumed to have been received by the student. What are the consequences of a Departmental Hearing? A departmental hearing may result in a few different outcomes. The departmental hearing officer may decide that the violation did not occur and/or that no penalty should be assessed. On the other hand, the departmental hearing officer may decide that a violation did occur and impose a penalty ranging from reduced grade, zero on the assignment, F in the course, probation, suspension, expulsion, etc. The student name remains on the case list and may not be removed after graduation. Sanctions of probation, suspension and expulsion result in a notation on the student’s transcript. When a case is resolved by departmental hearing the outcome may be appealed by either the student or instructor. Sanctions of suspension or expulsion are reviewed automatically in a college hearing unless such a hearing is waived. Do I have the right to appeal a Departmental Hearing? Yes, both you and the instructor have equal right of appeal to a college-level Academic Honesty hearing panel made up of faculty and students. If you are found in violation of the academic honesty policy at a departmental hearing and the recommended sanctions are suspension or greater, a college level hearing is required. You may waive the college level hearing if you elect to accept the decision of the department. What happens if I do not attend the Departmental Hearing? If you fail to attend the departmental hearing, the case against you may be decided in your absence. You would still have the option to appeal the departmental decision/sanction to a college level hearing. How should I decide whether to accept or appeal a departmental sanction? Students who admit to violating the academic honesty policy will want to carefully weigh a decision to appeal a departmental decision to the college-level Academic Honesty panel. If a departmental decision is appealed to the college level, a college hearing is scheduled. The case is heard before a panel of faculty and students and is a de novo hearing, a rehearing of the case, and may result in outcomes for the student that are different from the departmental level. The outcomes may or may not be to the advantage of the student. Depending on the case and hearing, the resulting sanctions may be the same, or less/more severe. The hearing panel may consider the sanctions ranging from reduced grade, zero on the assignment, F in the course, probation, suspension, expulsion, etc. The student name remains on the case list and may not be removed after graduation. Sanctions of probation, suspension and expulsion result in a notation on the student’s transcript. The outcome of a college hearing may be appealed to the provost by either the student or instructor within five class days of the panel’s decision. The Dean of Students Office is available to help students understand the process to make an informed decision. Suppose I violated the Academic Honesty policy but I wish to appeal the penalty at the college level? You may appeal the penalty to the college level. A college-level hearing is a de novo hearing, a rehearing of the case, and may result in different outcomes for the student than what was decided at the departmental level. The range of sanctions include those that may result on a student’s transcript. What is a College hearing? For more information on the college hearing please read Article 6 of the academic honesty policy. How can I get more information? For the complete Academic Honesty Policy, refer to the policy online. For assistance or information pertaining to the academic honesty process please contact the Office of Undergraduate Academic Affairs, room 207 E. Cullen. Telephone: 713-743-9187. You may also consult the Dean of Students Office. For student academic support: Writing Center LAUNCH University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies