Connect with Current Students - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Discover & Connect Connect with Current Students Connect with Current Students Listen to the Coogcast The UH Admissions Official Coogcast is a podcast made to help students like you thrive in college and beyond. Listen to current students as they share their best college tips and tricks, learn about Coog values and campus resources, and hear from people making a difference at UH, in Houston and all over the world. Coogcast See all episodes MEET OUR TEAM The University of Houston Ambassadors promote the University of Houston to campus visitors and prospective students in accordance with the University of Houston mission. The Ambassadors main goal is to offer an experience that will #ChangeLives of prospective students in order to help them become a future Coog. Get to know our team better based on how they applied to the university! Andrea Pasadena, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Human Development and Family Studies Ambassador Class of 2023 I love photography! Anisha San Antonio, Texas College of Technology Biotechnology Ambassador Class of 2022 I am originally from Florida, and I'm majoring in Biotechnology with a minor in Computer Science. I love watching anything Sci-Fi or True Crime! Anya Sugarland, Texas C.T. Bauer College of Business Marketing & Finance Director of Operations Class of 2022 I am originally from Kazakhstan, so my first language is Russian! Emma Ivory Coast, Côte d'Ivoire C.T. Bauer College of Business Accounting Ambassador Class of 2023 My middle name is Ares, like the Greek god of war. I love reading crime novels, re-watching Disney Original movies and singing. Faith Gause, Texas College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Geophysics Ambassador Class of 2023 I am majoring in Geophysics, and I plan on double minoring in Mathematics and Energy & Sustainability! I am also a member of the Honors College. Gabriela Wharton, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Political Science Ambassador Class of 2023 I like reading historical fiction books. A fun fact about me is that I am a twin! I have a fraternal twin sister who is also a UH Ambassador! Hamza Houston, Texas C.T. Bauer College of Business Supply Chain Management Ambassador Class of 2023 I like listening to music, driving and going to the park. Jack Houston, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Liberal Studies Ambassador Class of 2023 I am from the Philippines, but I grew up in Houston! I am Liberal Studies major, and love spending time in my favorite book stores and museums in the city! Jenna Houston, Texas College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Mathematics, Spanish Ambassador Class of 2023 I like running and reading. I am currently marathon training! Karen Pasadena, Texas C.T. Bauer College of Business Marketing and Management Information Systems Ambassador Class of 2022 I am majoring in Marketing with a minor in Economics. I love traveling, and I am so passionate about math, I hope to make it a lifelong career! Kathryn Fort Worth, Texas College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biology Ambassador Class of 2023 I love exploring new parks and coffee shops around Houston! Kiara Santiago, Chile C.T. Bauer College of Business Supply Chain Management & Marketing Ambassador Class of 2022 I am an international student from Chile, but my family is from Peru. I love eating peruvian food, watching TV shows and movies. Lauren Edinburg, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Psychology/Biology Ambassador Class of 2023 I am from Edinburg, TX! I'm majoring in Psychology with a minor in Biology. I love to do art, sports, and I love to read! Maleia Dallas, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Kinesiology, Dance, Nutrition Ambassador Class of 2023 I am from Dallas, Texas and I'm majoring in Kinesiology, with a minor Health Communications. I love to dance and binge watch shows in my free time! Mashal Houston, Texas Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture Architecture Ambassador Class of 2025 I love painting, working out, watching movies. Mayelly Houston, Texas College of Technology Computer Information Systems Ambassador Class of 2023 I was born and raised in Houston, TX, and I love to visit Buc-ee's whenever I have a chance! Mayra Missouri City, Texas C.T. Bauer College of Business Supply Chain Management/ Marketing Ambassador Class of 2022 I am a Supply Chain Management major pursuing a Finance minor! I created a New Registered Student Organization at UH! Phu Houston, Texas College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biochemistry Ambassador Class of 2022 I am a foodie, meaning that I am always thrilled to discover new and unique food! I believe a journey for delicious cuisine brings everyone together. RJ Katy, Texas College of Education Teaching and Learning Ambassador Class of 2023 I am a Cougar legacy! I love sharing the wondrous University of Houston with anyone and everyone! Sally Mission, Texas College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Biology Ambassador Class of 2022 I am from the Rio Grande Valley! Sasha Siberia, Russia College of Education Nutritional Sciences Ambassador Class of 2024 I love reading books, hanging out with friends, going to watch movies. A fun fact about me is that I have a black belt in Taekwon-do. Valeria Caracas, Venezuela C.T. Bauer College of Business Supply Chain Management Ambassador Class of 2022 Go Coogs! Victoria Wharton, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Psychology Ambassador Class of 2022 I love reading, Netflix, and long walks. A fun fact about me is that I'm a twin! Vivian Houston, Texas Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Interior Architecture Ambassador Class of 2023 I am from Houston, TX, and I am majoring in Interior Architecture. I love making earrings for myself and my friends! Zarmeen Cypress Station, Texas Cullen College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering, PreMed Ambassador Class of 2022 Go Coogs! Zohra Cypress, Texas College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Psychology Pre-Med Ambassador Class of 2023 I am a Psychology major with a minor in Medicine and Society! My hobbies consist of traveling, trying new types of food, and spending time with my family and friends! University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies