Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Adult Admissions Program Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Adult Admissions Program It's never too early or late to plan for your college education. The University of Houston supports non-traditional college age students getting a start towards a degree. The Adult Admission Program is designated to facilitate the admission of adult students. You may be considered for the Adult Admissions Program (AAP) if you: hold a high school diploma or equivalent have not been enrolled in a high school or regionally accredited college-level program for the past five years are at least 25 years of age by the last day of late registration for the semester of attendance have never enrolled as a student at UH (if so, see information for former students) This program does not apply to currently and/or previously enrolled students, international students, or Post-Baccalaureate applicants. How to Apply Complete the Transient Application through ApplyTexas. Select Adult Admission Option as your major. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee with a credit card or debit card. Payment can be made when you submit your admission application or in your myUH self-service portal. Submit your final high school transcript or GED diploma by electronic method or regular mail. Please view the Submitting Official High School and College Transcripts Guidelines for more information. Submit proof of English Language Proficiency if required. - Applicants who have completed any education outside the U.S. must submit evidence of English proficiency. A score of 550 or higher (79 or higher on the internet-based exam), on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) is required. Students from Australia, the Bahamas, Belize, the British Isles, English-speaking Canadian provinces, the Fiji Islands, Jamaica, Liberia, New Zealand, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Trinidad, the Virgin Islands, the West Indies, and Zimbabwe and those who speak English as their native language are exempt from taking the TOEFL. An Associate of Arts degree will generally not exempt an applicant from the TOEFL requirement. Deadlines Term Application Type Open Date Application Due Supporting Information* Due Summer 2022 Adult Admissions Program 8/1/2021 5/2/2022 5/9/2022 Fall 2022 Adult Admissions Program 8/1/2021 5/31/2022 6/10/2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). How the Program Works Students admitted through the Adult Admissions Program are non-degree seeking. In order to maintain enrollment eligibility, students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 2.00. Students who wish to change their status to degree seeking must complete 18 semester credit hours. The hours earned at the University of Houston will be used to determine eligibility into a student's chosen major, and all transfer admission requirements must be met in order to fulfill the status change request. Complete the Degree Seeking Status Change Request Form to begin this process. Degree Seeking Status Change Request Form Financial Aid Students initially enrolled in the Adult Admission Program have a non-degree status and are not eligible for financial assistance. Financial aid will be processed during the semester following the completion of 18 semester hours. Eligible veterans may use veterans’ benefits under this program. Please contact Veterans’ Services Office for more information at 713 -743-5490. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies