News and Events - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy News & Events News and Events DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. KEEPING YOU INFORMED. The University of Houston at Katy is as vibrant and dynamic as the region in which it resides. Learn more about our student successes, unique programs and Tier One faculty. Latest News Story Archive Nursing Student Credits Parents, UHin4 in Reaching Graduation Goal The graduation celebration for Maria Espinoza will be a special one that acknowledges her accomplishment and the sacrifices made by her family to help her reach her college dreams. Espinoza, a first-generation student, will be graduating from the UH College of Nursing. She says her parents had little education and worked several jobs to ensure their children had academic opportunities that put them on the road to a better life. Top Nurses in Houston Includes UH College of Nursing Professor Shainy Varghese, associate professor and nurse practitioner in the University of Houston College of Nursing, has been selected one of the Top 150 Nurses for this year’s Houston Chronicle Salute to Nurses. The annual recognition occurs during National Nurses Week, May 6-12th, and honors nurses who have made a tangible, positive impact in the nursing community. Former Energy Secretary Honored by Supply Chain Program, Houston Maritime Center The UH Supply Chain and Logistics Technology program, alongside the Houston Maritime Center honored former Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz for his contributions within the energy transition. Fittingly, Moniz received the Maritime Education in Energy Transition award during CERAWeek, the world’s preeminent discussion of energy industry. UH College of Nursing, Students Selected for National Effort to Build Vaccine Confidence The UH College of Nursing is one of only ten programs nationwide to receive a grant to build COVID-19 vaccine confidence. The American Association of Colleges of Nursing provided the funding after receiving $1 million from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention for an initiative called Building COVID-19 Vaccine Confidence Among Nurses and in Communities. More than $500K from Wheeler Foundation to UH College of Nursing Health Clinic The University of Houston College of Nursing is receiving a $550,000 grant from the Burt and Mae Dean Wheeler Foundation to benefit healthcare services for Houston’s homeless population. “It is a big deal for us. It is a huge deal,” said Kathryn Tart, dean of the college. The college’s Nurse Managed Health Clinic attends to Houston’s homeless and working poor. UH/HCC Engineering Academy Student, Team Win Top Placements in NASA Design Challenge When Astronauts eventually live on Mars, they may be sleeping on a bed designed by a University of Houston/Houston Community College Engineering Academy student and his teammates. Cyrus Abbasi and teammates Yasmin Soltani, Bryant Tovar Hurtado, and Talha Iftikha placed third in the Texas Space Grant Consortium NASA Design Challenge. The Newsletter of UH at Katy Your source for news, features and events Read the Newsletter › Sign Up to Receive › OTHER NEWS RESOURCES UH Today > UH Today is an official University of Houston communication for faculty and staff. UH Today, which includes a website and a daily email digest, reports on important human resources and University policy issues, provides institutional and employee features and covers awards, appointments and events information, as well as other items of interest to the UH campus. UH Magazine > The University of Houston Magazine is published by the Division of University Marketing, Communication and Media Relations. The Cougar > The Cougar is the official student-run publication and news organization at the University of Houston. UH Alert > UH ALERT is the official emergency notification system for the University and provides prompt notification to students, faculty and staff in the event of a condition which may threaten the health or safety of those on campus. To ensure you receive these notifications, students, staff and faculty must update their emergency contact information. 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies