Parents and Families - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are Parents and Families You are a vital part of your student’s college search process. Planning for the future, especially for college, can be a bit overwhelming for both you and your student. That's why we’re trying to make the college admissions experience as easy as possible. We’ve pulled together our most useful resources on this page to help you and your family throughout the process. Preparing for College Applying to UH Enrolling in UH Life after UH Preparing for College Our College Readiness team is committed to increasing access to and success in higher education to underrepresented, disadvantaged, and underserved students of all ages. They offer a variety of workshops, presentations, and activities, as well as various resources, that aim to educate students about the benefits of college. View our College Readiness website Applying to UH Admissions Information Application Instructions Test-Optional Admissions Visit the Powerhouse The easiest way to envision yourself on campus is to take a tour. We offer various types of tours—including virtual and in-person options. VIRTUAL TOURS SELF-GUIDED TOURS IN-PERSON TOURS GROUP TOURS Submitting Transcript Info To expedite admission decisions, the University of Houston requires U.S. freshmen applicants to self-report high school grades as part of the admissions application process. Applicants must report grades from all English, math, science, and social studies courses. How to Self-Report Transcripts There are various ways for your students to send their transcripts to UH, including electronically or by mail. View our Transcript Submission Guidelines webpage for more details. Transcript Submission Guidelines Important Forms and Links Freshman Change Major Request Form Transfer Change Major Request Form Newly admitted students and Freshman and Transfer applicants can use this form to request a change of major. Change Term Request Form Undergraduate applicants may request to change the admission term of their application by completing the Application Term Change Request Form. This form is due by the application deadline for the new term. AccessUH AccessUH allows you to use your CougarNet ID to access many UH online services without logging into each one separately, including myUH Self Service. This is where applicants will be notified of admissions decisions, missing documents, financial aid awards, unpaid balances, and more. Applicants will receive a myUH ID to login within a few business days after submitting their application. Get Help Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Sign up for Virtual Advising Find Your Admissions Representative Enrolling in UH Cougar Promise The Cougar Promise is the University of Houston's commitment to ensure a college education is accessible to students from low and middle-income families. Orientation New Student Orientation is a one-day experience for new freshmen and transfer students and will prepare you to succeed at UH. Campus Life 550+ student orgs. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 15 intercollegiate sport teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. Support Resources From admission to graduation, our Enrollment Services staff is here to help you navigate your student experience at the University of Houston. Life After UH Our degrees aren’t just degrees. They’re the key to your student's future, a connection to a family of alumni and peers who want to see them go places, and a gateway to a lifetime of opportunities. $57,000 median starting salary for UH grads with a bachelor's degree 295,000+ alumni 4,000+ companies worldwide owned and led by UH alumni Career Services View Details University Career Services provides opportunities for potential employers to find the best and brightest across all disciplines for their respective organizations. Visit University Career Services Back Alumni Resources View Details Some things are a part of you forever. Those who embark on an educational journey with the University of Houston find a place they call their own – not just for four years, but for the rest of their lives. View Alumni Resources Back University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies