Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Student Opportunities Student Opps UH Energy About UH Energy Energy Events Research Contact Us Connections Newsletter Energy News Energy Events Archive SED Program EDAC Program ESG Program Micro-credentialing Hub CCUS Executive Education TribFest Hydrogen Course Redirect ECO Bottle Drive EV Toolkit Opportunities For Current Students MARCH 7TH - 11TH eRENEWABLE Podcast Competition Event Details: Date: Posted on March 7, 2022 Time: 1 Week Location: Online Competition Your Voice Matters: University of Houston Energy and the Energy Coalition invite you to have your voice heard. We're partnering with eRENEWABLE, an energy technology company, to bring a special series of "The Green Insider," a podcast with thousands of weekly listeners across Spotify and Apple Podcasts. TOP THREE WINNERS RECEIVE A $1200, $500, $300 PRIZE Guest Speaker Nomination and Application: Want to be featured in a world-class podcast? Do you know someone that should share their energy-related ideas to the world? APPLY TODAY *Applications Due: MARCH 11, 2022 About the Green Insider: THE GREEN INSIDER Powered by eRENEWABLE focuses on one of the most exciting and important aspects of the world economy and arguably the key to Earth’s future and survival – Sustainability. Each week, Fred Davis and Mike Nemer talk with the leaders and disruptors pacing The Energy Transition and are changing the way the world gets its energy and resources. Do you have what it takes to lead the energy conversation? For Additional Information Please Visit: MORE INFORMATION PROMO VIDEO APPLY NOW THE GREEN INSIDER PODCAST ONGOING Seeking Interns - Paid Internship with Evolve Houston Event Details: Date: Posted on February 7, 2022 Time: Ongoing Location: Evolve Houston Evolve Houston Intern: Evolve Houston is seeking multiple paid interns to advance electric mobility in the greater Houston area. If you or someone you know is looking for a hands-on, impact-focused internship that will facilitate professional growth and spur organizational development, apply today to intern at Evolve Houston. About The Position: Multiple paid internship positions are available. Apply to find your best fit. Evolve Houston’s Mission: Evolve Houston is a coalition of sustainability-minded civic, business, and academic leaders who seek to accelerate clean transportation through electrification to improve air quality within the Greater Houston area. Position Overview: Evolve Houston’s ability to advance its mission of accelerating clean transportation depends on goal-oriented and collaboration-driven people to work closely with a vast network of stakeholders, conduct and collect market research, and engage Houstonians on the grassroots level. Our interns help provide the horsepower necessary to achieve the goals of our organization, serving primarily in a capacity to leverage interpersonal skills, digital tools, and innovative problem-solving. For Additional Information Please Visit: MORE INFORMATION APPLY NOW VIA LINKEDIN EVOLVE HOUSTON ON TWITTER JAN 11 - APRIL 7 2nd Annual SUT-US Online Engineering Competition Event Details: Date: January 11, 2022 - April 7, 2022 Time: 12am CST - 5pm CST Location: Online Competition The competition is scheduled to begin on February 21st, judging on April 4th, and announcing the winners on April 8th of 2022. Competition Overview: The Society for Underwater Technology in the US (SUT-US) is organizing its 2nd Annual Online Engineering Competition, a global virtual competition for 1) college students competing with other college student, undergraduate, and graduate students, and 2) young professionals with 0 to 3 years of professional experience. The participants will propose a solution to the predefined problem statements in the following categories: Subsea Oil and Gas Wells Submarine Underwater Rescue in Shallow Water Underwater Thermal Garments Bring your Own Problem - “BYOP Shark Tank” Underwater Service Robots Competition Registration: Participants can register as individuals or as a team, of up to 4 members using the embedded Google form on this page: REGISTER VIA GOOGLE FORM or by following this link: REGISTER NOW There is no limit on number of entries per person or team. For both, individual and team registration, the cost per participant per category is $100.00 for early career professionals and $30.00 for students. The deliverables include a MS PowerPoint presentation of up to 20 slides to be submitted by March 26th, 2022 by 5 PM CST. No report is required. Important Deadlines: JAN 11th Applications Begin FEB 8th Registration Ends FEB 21st Competition Begins MARCH 26th Competition Submissions Due MARCH 28th - APRIL 1st Preliminary Judging APRIL 4th - 7th Finalists Presentations and Judging APRIL 8th Awards Judging Criteria: The judges will review each entry against the following criteria: Originality, Creativity & Intent Technical Aspects Implementation Feasibility Potential Impact and Growth Finalist will be notified via email and assigned a 15 minutes time slot to give a final presentation to the judges between April 5th, 2022- April 8th, 2022. Winners will be notified via email with an invitation to the virtual award ceremony, which will take place on April 8th, 2022. Prizes: Cash prizes First place winners get 1 registration each to a 2022 SUT course/workshop with a cash value of up to $2400.00 All participants receive a 1-year SUT membership If a team entry has won the topic, the cash award will be distributed evenly to each team member. For Additional Information Please Visit: MORE INFORMATION REGISTER NOW DOWNLOAD FLYER FEB 11 - APRIL 8 Energy & Career Webinars and the Certificate in Energy Leadership Event Details: Date: February 11, 2022 - April 8, 2022 Time: 10am - 11am Location: Webinar Series Series Overview: UH Energy and the Energy Coalition at the University of Houston are proud to announce our Energy Career & Leadership Webinars and the Certificate in Energy Leadership. These programs are based on a four-part webinar series, and are designed to prepare UH students for careers in energy, and for roles as future decision-makers within industry. Focusing on non-curricular aspects of leadership and team-building skills this non-credit program provides UH students with unique hands-on and practical information to further their career in the energy industry. The webinars feature some of the brightest minds of the marketplace. This educational opportunity will explore how the energy transition is transforming energy careers, as well as providing insights in leadership and team-building, which are crucial skills in the rapidly-changing energy industry. Webinar Registration: Webinar registration is open to all, but pre-registration is required: REGISTER NOW After you complete and submit the registration form, you will receive a unique, personal Zoom link for all four webinars. Alternative joining options (e.g., dial-in) will also be provided. Certificate in Energy Leadership Registration: The Certificate in Energy Leadership is a non-credit certification open to UH students only. All candidates must register for the webinar series, attend at least three of the live webinars, and achieve passing grades in online tests. To enable us to verify attendance, certificate candidates must enter “UH” or “University of Houston” in the “Organization” field, and provide their student ID in the “Student ID” field when they register for the webinars. When joining each webinar, they must use their unique, personal Zoom link. Failure to follow these instructions may disqualify candidates from receiving their certificates. Candidates who are unable to fulfill all of the above requirements (e.g., they cannot attend the live webinars due to schedule conflicts) should contact the program coordinator, Alan Rossiter aprossit@central.uh.edu before the first webinar. Webinar Recordings: We plan to record each session in this 4-part series, and will make those recordings available a few days after each live event. For Additional Information Please Visit: SERIES DETAILS REGISTER NOW UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies