Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus Parking Garages Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Parking Garages Parking and Transportation Services oversees and maintains six parking garages on the University of Houston campus. Click on each garage name below to pull up more information. Stadium Garage Google Street view Map Located at 3874 Holman Street in the Athletics District Welcome Center Garage (faculty/staff) Google Street view Map Located at 4434 University Drive Welcome Center Student Garage Google Street view Map Located at 4348 Martin Luther King Blvd. Elgin Street Garage Google Street view Map Located at 4224 Elgin Street East Garage * Google Street view Map Located at 4233 Martin Luther KIng Blvd. University Gateway Garage * Google Street view Map Located at 4259 Martin Luther King Blvd., adjacent to the East Garage * The East Garage and University Gateway Garage share the same parking permit, allowing permit holders to park in both of them. Campus Parking Garages Map (click to pull up larger version) WHICH GARAGE IS BEST FOR YOU? The six parking garages are located in different parts of campus. Students deciding which garage to select can use the following guide to help them make the choice that works the best for them. Nearest by College Stadium Garage College of Education Hobby School of Public Affairs College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Welcome Center Student Garage Conrad N. Hilton College of Global Hospitality Leadership College of Optometry College of Pharmacy Elgin Street Garage Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Graduate College of Social Work UH Law Center East Garage C.T. Bauer College of Business Cullen College of Engineering University Gateway Garage C.T. Bauer College of Business Cullen College of Engineering Nearest by Residential Community Stadium Garage Quandrangle Cougar Place Welcome Center Student Garage Bayou Lofts Moody Towers Cougar Villages I and II Quandrangle Elgin Street Garage University Lofts East Garage University Lofts University Gateway Garage University Lofts University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies