Welcome to the UH Population Health page - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Population Health Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Home About Leadership External Advisory Committee Internal Advisory Board 2022 Milestones Contact Us UH Home UH Population Health UH Population Health A Better Approach to Better Health Our nation’s approach to health and health care is broken. The U.S. spends more on health care than any other developed nation in the world but has some of the poorest health outcomes among wealthy countries. Population Health Stats Nurses Health Week Nurses are highly educated professionals who make critical assessments and autonomous decisions. They educate and fearlessly advocate for patients and communities. They are prepared to be nursing leaders, administer health systems and education future generations of nurses and practitioners. They devote their careers to promoting the health and wellbeing of our society at home and across the globe. Nurses are the most trusted profession, they make a difference and save lives. The nobility of their professionalism and compassion has been and continues to be on full display to the world during the COVID-19 pandemic. We salute those who have chosen nursing as their calling and encourage nursing students to continue their pursuit in this noble profession. National Nurses’ Week 2022 — May 6–12. College of Nursing Monthly Focus Each month UH Population Health will feature a “population” highlighted as part of national health observances. May Older Americans Month Older Americans Month is devoted to celebrating older Americans and their contributions, raising awareness of issues related to age and aging. The term “older Americans” generally refers to Americans age 65 and older. 727 million Globally, there are 727 million people 65 years of age and older. This number is expected to double by 2050 to 1.5 billion. $45.5 billion Nearly 25% of older adults volunteer in some capacity, which translates to 1.9 billion service hours worth $45.5 billion in donated services. $20.5 trillion- U.S. $13.4 trillion- China $8.3 trillion- U.S. 50+ The economic contributions of Americans age 50+ exceeds $8.3 trillion. If this group had their own economy, they would be the world's third largest by gross domestic product behind the U.S. and China. 96% More than 46 million adults 65 years of age and older live in the U.S. By 2050, that number is expected to grow by 96% to 90 million. By 2030, 1 in 5 Americans is projected to be 65 years of age and older. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics U.S. Census Bureau United Nations - Population Division AARP University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies