Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Room Reservations Campus Services Information Technology Library Dining Services Campus Security Facilities Room Request Bookstore Shuttle Service Parking Campus Safety Room Reservations Room Reservations at Sugar Land Procedures, forms, policies and helpful information about the reservation process. Request a Room Reservation To request a room reservation, please use the UH at Sugar Land Room Request Form. A room request is required to reserve all general and educational spaces at the site. Requests will be reviewed and assigned based on availability and compliance with University and site policies and regulations. Requests received less than 10 business days prior to the event may be denied due to insufficient time and/or space available to process and accommodate the request. A reply email will be sent to you, within 48 business hours, to confirm if your request has been approved. If approved, you will be provided all necessary details with regards to using the space. Please read the UH at Sugar Land & Katy Facilities Reservation and Use Policies (coming soon) External Clients, please refer to UH MAPP 09-03.01 – Facilities Use and Oversight to review the UH sponsorship requirements to host an event on our sites. For more information on UH sponsorship and/or questions regarding hosting an external event on site, please contact slevents@central.uh.edu for more info. Event Set-Up and Clean-Up Procedures All set-up information should be included in the room reservation request. Please ensure to account for the set-up and breakdown time of your event on the room reservation form. Space(s) will only be made available during the times confirmed on the room reservation form. Requests for changes/additions to room set-up with less than 48 business hours’ notice will not be fulfilled. Leaving the facility in an unclean condition or damaging facilities and/or equipment may result in additional charges to the group for cleanup and/or recovery of losses. It also may result in loss of future privileges to reserve space. No items are permitted to be taped or nailed to the walls. Any damages sustained from such violations will be subject to additional charges. If room is not unlocked at the scheduled time of your event, please contact site Security at 832-842-2929 for a room unlock. Parking UH Parking permits are required to park in the lots at UH at Sugar Land. Paid visitor parking is available on-site. Permit and visitor parking rates can be found on Parking & Transportation's website. If your event will have multiple attendees that do not have a UH Parking permit, please contact UH Parking & Transportation Departmentat at parking@uh.edu to coordinate and confirm parking arrangements. It is the responsibility of the event host to contact parking@uh.edu to coordinate parking. Event Forms and Helpful Links UH MAPP 09-03.01 – Facilities Use and Oversight UH at Sugar Land & Katy Facilities Reservation and Use Policies (coming soon) Temporary Food Dealer’s Permit Request Form Open Flame Permit Form Vendor Tent Permit Request for Police Services UH Dean of Students Alcohol Policy Registration of Alcohol Beverage Distribution Form UH Logo Use for Marketing – Intellectual Property Use Permission Form The Fresh Fork – Catering at the University of Houston Questions? For any further questions, please contact the UH at Sugar Land Academic Support team at slevents@central.uh.edu. 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies