Skip to main content Restrict my search to Economic Impact Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search 2019 Economic Impact Study The University of Houston contracted Emsi, a nationally recognized data analysis company, to conduct an economic impact study. In addition to the University study, separate reports focusing on our newly created College of Medicine as well as UH’s Health and Energy enterprises were also undertaken, examining the University’s cost and benefits in each of these crucial categories. This study allows us to provide our peers, media, the UH community and general public as well as civic and business leaders with specific details and verified data that illustrate the productive role the University plays in the overall economic landscape of this region and the state. The results confirm that UH is a good steward of the public and private funds, enumerates how UH creates a profitable impact on the economy and generates a positive rate return on investment for students, taxpayers and society. View the Full UH Economic Impact Report University of Houston $ 6.4 B Greater Houston Total Impact $5.2 B Alumni Impact $717.6 M Operations Spending Impact $198.6 M Research Spending Impact $140.1 M Student Spending Impact $102 M Construction Spending Impact $30.7 M Start-up Company Impact $7.6 M Visitor Spending Impact Founded in 1927, the University of Houston plays an essential role in the overall economic vitality of the city for which it is named and the state of Texas. Developing a skilled workforce, inspired leaders and expert managers, providing research-based solutions to real-world problems, encouraging cultural advancement and serving as an anchor institution for the community, UH generates a remarkable $6.4 billion annual impact on Greater Houston – and $7.7 billion impact on Texas. For every $1 invested in UH, its students gain $4.20 in lifetime earnings, taxpayers reap $6 in savings and society enjoys $12.60 in added benefits. View Greater Houston Executive Summary (PDF)View Greater Houston Fact Sheet (PDF) UH Health $ 939.1 M Greater Houston Total Impact $759.3 M Alumni Impact $84.4 M Operations Spending Impact $38.5 M Research Spending Impact $21.7 M Start-up Company Impact $21.4 M Student Spending Impact $13.7 M Construction Spending Impact Houston is home to the world’s largest medical center and UH has played a crucial supplementary role with its own extensive assembly of health care-related programs, ranging from instruction and training to research and clinical treatment. UH Health focuses on integrating all these activities in order to eectively address a wide range of issues, both locally and on a broader scale. Nine of UH’s colleges are involved with the UH Health initiative and more than one in every four students is pursuing a health or health care degree. Not surprisingly, the economic impact is signicant, generating $939 million annually in the Greater Houston region and 1.3 billion statewide. View Greater Houston Executive Summary (PDF)View Greater Houston Fact Sheet (PDF) UH Energy $ 1.6 B Greater Houston Total Impact $1.3 B Alumni Impact $219.7 M Operations Spending Impact $54.6 M Student Spending Impact $38.3 M Research Spending Impact $29.3 M Construction Spending Impact $8.9 M Start-up Company Impact With Houston known as the Energy Capital, it’s fitting that UH has established itself as the Energy University. Drawing on a rich array of academic and research resources, UH Energy has positioned itself as a strategic partner to the energy industry by producing specialized personnel, technical leadership, innovative scholars and technological experts from its considerable student ranks. Nearly 8,000 students belong to the Energy Coalition, a collection of energy-related organizations on campus while the Energy Advisory Board, made up of C-level executives, keeps the University perfectly aligned with this important industry. The results add up to $1.6 billion in income to Greater Houston and $2.2 billion to Texas each year. View Greater Houston Executive Summary (PDF)View Greater Houston Fact Sheet (PDF) UH College of Medicine $ 376.6 M Greater Houston Total Impact $286.5 M Long-Run Operations Spending Impact $58.7 M Short-Run Spending Impact $17.7 M Long-Run Student Spending Impact $13.9 M Long-Run Alumni Impact Established in 2018, the College of Medicine was created to allow UH to play a greater role in improving the overall health and health care resources of Greater Houston and Texas. In particular, this medical school will help address the state’s critical shortage of primary care physicians as well as providing coverage to underserved communities. This study analyzes the projected value impacts the College of Medicine will have from its launch in fiscal year 2019 through its first decade in operation, estimating a $377 million addition to the regional economy by fiscal year 2029 with a $4.13 return for every $1 invested. View Greater Houston Executive Summary (PDF)View Greater Houston Fact Sheet (PDF) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies