Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Fertitta Family Pledges Historic $50 Million to UH College of Medicine Visionary Gift Will Propel New Era of Health Equity > Congratulations to Our May Graduates! Fertitta Family Pledges Historic $50 Million to UH College of Medicine Visionary Gift Will Propel New Era of Health Equity > Commencement website Apply Now Schedule Visit Access Library Featured Stories UH News Room UH Today Researchers Develop Sodium Glassy Electrolytes Capable of Supporting Long-Duration Grid-scale Energy Storage As governments and industries all over the world are eager to find energy storage options to power the clean energy transition, new research conducted at the University of Houston suggests ambient temperature solid-state sodium-sulfur battery technology as a viable alternative to lithium-based battery technology for grid-level energy storage systems. Stem Cell Cloning Experts Unraveling Cystic Fibrosis Two nationally recognized experts in cloning and stem cell science from the University of Houston are taking the first step toward limiting the consequences of chronic inflammation in cystic fibrosis, a disease that limits the ability to breathe, by identifying the source of this persistent and enigmatic inflammation in CF lungs. Coogs Around the World: Gilman Scholarships to Support Learning Abroad Experiences for UH Students As part of the latest cohort of Gilman scholars, 21 University of Houston students will receive substantial financial support for their international endeavors. This competitive award through the U.S. Department of State recognizes exemplary yet underserved students who may not otherwise have opportunities to venture outside of the U.S. Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information University of Houston scientists are delving into the brain by examining gap junctions in the retina and elsewhere – an understanding that could guide the development of new treatments or diagnostics for brain disorders and degenerative diseases. UH Study Finds Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification A University of Houston study finds the psychological trauma resulting from the separation of migrant children from their loved ones lasts long after their reunions and may lead to chronic physical consequences as well. Shale Reservoirs Could be ‘Substantial Source of Lithium’ Through her research of Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale play, Kyung Jae Lee, an assistant professor of petroleum engineering at the University of Houston’s Cullen College of Engineering found that highly concentrated lithium was found in the produced water (water produced as a byproduct during the extraction of oil and natural gas) along with produced natural gas and oil. Buildup of Solar Heat Likely Contributes to Mars’ Dust Storms, Researchers Find Seasonal imbalance between the solar energy absorbed and released by the planet Mars could be a cause of the Red Planet’s dust storms, according to new research from the University of Houston. Understanding how the system works on Mars could help scientists predict how climate change could affect Earth. Air Pollution Dropped During Pandemic Lockdowns Our atmosphere took a breather during COVID-19 stay-at-home orders. In comparing 2020 air quality measurements to the same data from 2019, University of Houston researchers found the pollutant PM2.5 decreased in 10 of the 11 U.S. cities they studied – documenting a temporary clearing of the air. Wynne Chin Earns 2022 Farfel Award Wynne Chin, C.T. Bauer Professor of Decision and Information Sciences, is the 2022 Esther Farfel Award recipient, the University’s highest faculty honor. He’s recognized for his commitment to excellence within the academy and to advancing the discipline of information sciences. Classroom Innovation Earns Rizk 2022 Piper Professorship Nouhad Rizk, UH instructional professor of computer science, has been named a 2022 Piper Professor for her passion for teaching and steadfast commitment to students. This includes “gamifying” her classes or incorporating fun and friendly competitions within the curriculum. UH Researchers Make Inroads on Converting Seawater to Green Hydrogen Scientists at the Unviersity of Houston are developing technologies using seawater electrolysis to produce sustainable green hydrogen that will not exacerbate the global shortage of freshwater or increase carbon emissions. Advancing Diagnostics for Lupus Nephritis A University of Houston biomedical researcher is finding potential lupus nephritis biomarkers which may be useful for developing more accurate clinical blood tests for the disease, replacing the existing invasive test, the painful renal biopsy. Featured Events View Full Calendar Academic Calendar Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning In this workshop, you’ll learn how deep learning works through hands-on exercises in computer vision and natural language processing. Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Create your own individual and collaborative artworks in FREE workshops led by Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar. Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 First Lecture returns to an in-person event. Kick off the academic year with inspirational speakers as they provide insights for moving forward toward a better future. Students, faculty, staff and community members are invited to this free event on Friday, Aug. 19, 2022 in-person at the University of Houston. UH Initiatives The University of Houston is a powerhouse of innovation. UH has grown to service the city of Houston and beyond through our extensive educational offerings, partnerships with local businesses and contributions to the community. Explore more below about how we are cultivating the future through Energy, Health, Arts, and Athletics to create success for our students and alumni. Health UH Health is the platform to integrate the university’s mission and values focused on identifying and responding to the economic, social and cultural issues affecting health in Houston, Texas, and beyond. Arts UH Arts provide students the fuel to awaken the imagination and contribute real art to the real world. Read how students use their experiences and thoughts to ignite the imagination. Athletics UH Athletics is driving sportsmanship to new levels by preparing student-athletes to be champions for life. Read about how student-athletes are achieving success in academics and athletics. Energy UH Energy performs innovative research to address emerging needs in the hydrocarbons, renewables and sustainability energy sectors. Read about how UH energy fuels the industry. Student Success UH students have access to comprehensive higher education programs and countless resources providing the tools for success. Read about how students are thriving at the University of Houston. Third Ward As a good neighbor and university dedicated to civic engagement, we will partner and collaborate with the Third Ward to transform its schools, businesses, and healthcare resources. We celebrate the culture and history of our shared community. Population Health UH Population Health is a first-of-its-kind university-wide initiative to build healthier communities and a stronger society by addressing the full range of factors that affect health. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies