UH at Sugar Land - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to DSAES Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Home About Us A Message from the VP Vice President's Staff Executive Leadership Assessment and Planning Marketing and Communications Advancement DSAES Committees Assessment Committee Development Committee Diversity and Inclusion Committee Marketing Communications Group Professional Development Committee Student Auxiliary Committee Customer Service Standard Division Recognition DSAES Awards Golden Paw Employee of the Month Annual Reports and Presentations Strategic Planning Contact Us and Organizational Chart News Student Employee Spotlight Departments Department List Enrollment Services Get Involved Get Support Live on Campus Stay Healthy Events UH History and Traditions UH SAES Leadership Conference DSAES Event Calendar CoogNews eBlast Contact Us Resources Students Faculty/Staff DSAES Staff Consumer Information Sexual Violence Prevention Education Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ DACA: What You Need to Know DACA-FAQ Philanthropy Cougar Emergency Fund Diamond Family Scholars Program Student Scholarship Spotlight CoogsCare UH Home DSAES UH at Sugar Land UH at Sugar Land About UH at Sugar Land UH at Sugar Land is a location of the University of Houston and home to many UH programs. The Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services (DSAES) provides support services and events throughout the academic year. All students are invited to use these resources. Learn more about the DSAES departments at UH at Sugar Land. Students who take classes at UH at Sugar Land may obtain a Cougar Card and a Shuttle Service decal in the UH at Sugar Land Auxiliary Services office, room 101 in the George Building (AMG). Office Hours The office for the Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services is currently closed to promote social distancing measures as a result of COVID-19. We continue to offer a number of remote and virtual services. DSAES Office Suite Please see Cheryl Underwood at the Information Desk in the Lobby. Integrated Enrollment Services Accepting walk-ins on Mondays, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Remote and virtual services also offered. Visit the IES website University Career Services Please contact us at the UCS website for virtual services Counseling and Psychological Services In-person and telehealth services available in AMG 119C; see current schedule. Crisis services 24/7 at 713-743-5454. See CAPS @ Sugar Land for details. Services Available Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) offers mental health services to the UH community, including therapy, short-term counseling, group counseling and other resources and programs. Students at UH at Sugar Land have access to CAPS’ services and programs, including virtual options. Integrated Enrollment Services Integrated Enrollment Services resolves complex student issues and helps students stay in college. We offer numerous services to students at all UH campuses in the areas of admissions, scholarships and financial aid, student business services or the University Registrar. Justin Dart, Jr. Student Accessibility Center The Justin Dart Jr., Student Accessibility Center office provides accommodations and support services to UH students at all campuses who have temporary or permanent health impairments, physical limitations, psychiatric disorders, and/or learning disabilities. Student Accessibility Center staff serve as liaisons between students and faculty, administrators, and community agencies. UH Student Health Center The Student Health Center and campus pharmacy offers comprehensive primary care and prescription or over-the-counter medications to all currently enrolled UH students at all UH campuses. It currently offers both in-person and virtual services to students. University Career Services University Career Services (UCS) is a full-service career center offering students and UH alumni resources and assistance in the formulation and implementation of their career plans. In addition to supporting students, UCS provides recruiting and hiring opportunities for local employers. UCS services are available to students at all campuses. Ways to Get Involved Campus Recreation Campus Recreation offers a variety of recreation and fitness opportunities, including virtual recreation programs, to support student's health and well-being. Visit the Campus Recreation website or follow us on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook to participate in remote workouts, challenges, live group fitness classes, and eSports. Center for Diversity and Inclusion uhcdi@central.uh.edu 713.743.6047 CDI fosters an inclusive university community by providing services, programs, and support that engage, empower, and educate our highly diverse student population and campus partners. Center for Student Involvement csi@uh.edu 832.842.6245 There are over 500 student organizations registered with the Center for Student Involvement (CSI) to serve the diverse population at UH. Visit Get Involved to find the right organization for you. Student Government Association sga@uh.edu 832.842.6225 SGA is committed to understanding the needs of students and advocating on their behalf. Through continuous interaction with students, faculty, staff, and administration, the organization works to improve and enhance the quality of the student experience. Center for Student Media csm@uh.edu 713.743.5350 CSM provides opportunities for students to receive hands-on experience in print, online and broadcast media. Programs and additional support for students who are interested in digital media are available. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies