Skip to main content Restrict my search to Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Graduate College of Social Work About Welcome Message About Our Dean Mission & Vision Strategic Plan 2017-2021 Faculty Directory Administrative Offices Contact GCSW Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Dual Degree Programs Child Welfare Education Project Nonprofit Leadership Alliance Current Students MSW Course Schedules PhD Course Schedules Student Organizations International Education Scholarships and Financial Support MSW Student Standards & Policies Forms & Procedures Student Resources Graduation Guide Prospective Students Apply Now MSW Admissions PhD Admissions Scholarships and Financial Support Connect with Us Research Child and Family Center for Innovative Research Maternal Health Equity Research and Training Center MH-RITES Research Center SUSTAIN Wellbeing COMPASS Coordinating Center upEND Movement H.E.A.R. Lab News & Events GCSW in the News Events GCSW Stories Community Events Eyes on Abolition ONWARD I The Next 50 Years Racial Justice Symposium GCSW Mural Renovation Project GCSW E-News Photo Galleries Video Gallery Noteworthy Office of Communications Giving Current Funding Opportunities Donor Impact Alumni & Career Services Alumni Relations Professional Continuing Education Career Services GCSW Alumni Scholarships Student/Alumni Mentorship Program Ph.D. Alumni Directory UH Home Graduate College of Social Work Academics PhD Program Academics MSW Program Field Education PhD Program Course Curriculum Degree Requirements Perspectives on Social Work Doctoral Journal Meet Our Students & Graduates PhD Handbook PhD Admissions PhD Admission Requirements PhD Application Scholarships and Financial Aid Connect With Us PhD Course Schedule Dual Degree Programs Nonprofit Leadership Alliance PhD Program in Social Work Welcome to the Ph.D. Program at the University of Houston, Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW)! The GCSW is committed to preparing the next generation of social work researchers, scholars, educators, and leaders who will gain faculty appointments in social work programs or research positions in research centers or institutes. Students in our program have the opportunity to identify, develop, and pursue an area of research that prepares them to contribute to professional scholarship, build interdisciplinary partnerships, and advance the knowledge base of the profession. Our curriculum is evidence-based with a strong focus on and commitment to social justice. The GCSW provides the kind of personal attention that enables students to succeed in their doctoral education. We offer small classes, individualized study with faculty members, training workshops, and research internships. Our students publish in peer-reviewed journals, present at national and international conferences, and assist with grant preparation. Unique to the GCSW is a doctoral journal that is managed by our doctoral students. Houston is the fourth-largest city in the United States, with a population that is ethnically diverse and multicultural. The Texas Medical Center, located in the heart of Houston, is one of the largest medical complexes in the world. As such, the greater Houston area offers doctoral students a vast and unique array of opportunities for research projects. Through teaching and mentoring, the GCSW faculty share their knowledge, expertise, and social work values with students. By emphasizing scholarship and research, GCSW faculty help students engage in critical thinking, intellectual discovery, and professional development. We welcome your interest in our doctoral program. Sincerely, Susan P. Robbins, Ph.D. Professor and Associate Dean for Doctoral Education Contact the PhD Program Nikki Jahan, MA 713-743-0872 njahan9@uh.edu GCSW Faculty Directory University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies