Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Bicycle Registration Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 COAST Resources coast@central.uh.edu Bicycle Registration Students, faculty and staff who have a bicycle on campus are required to register it. Registration takes only minutes to complete and is free. A registration sticker will be provided and should be placed on the bicycle. If the bicycle is ever lost or stolen, the University will have the serial number and other identifying information. If the bicycle is recovered, this information makes it much easier to return the bicycle to its rightful owner. How to Register a Bicycle Log in to your myParking account through AccessUH. Click the "Get Permits" button. Click "Next" on the "Purchase a Permit" page. Disregard the EZ Tag information and click "Next" Select the bicycle registration permit. Check the two agreement boxes then click "Next" On the "Select Your Vehicles for Permit" page, click the "Add Bicycle" button. Enter the bicycle serial number, model and color, and "Relationship to Vehicle" (your bicycle). You may also upload photos of your bicycle. Click "Submit" on the "Add Bicycle Information" page. On the "Select Your Vehicles for Permit" page, check the box next to the bicycle you are registering and then click "Next" On the "Delivery/Pick Up Information" page, make sure to select "Pick up my permit from the Parking Office" on the Delivery Option pull down menu. Click the "Pay Now" button on the "View Cart" page. The amount will be $0.00. On the "Payment Information" page, check the "I have read and understand the above statements" box and then click the "Pay Now" button. A bicycle registration sticker will be available for you to pick up at the Parking and Transportion customer service office located in University Lofts. The sticker must be placed on your bicycle. In order to go to the customer service office, you will need to get in a virtual line or make an appointment. To do this, text uhparking to 832-924-3542 and follow the prompts. Where to Place Registration Sticker Common Bike Serial Number Locations University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies