UH Go - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Go Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Designed with your needs in mind. The UH Go app is your fast pass to everything UH. You can find and pay for meals, view your grades and explore life on campus. All this, and so much more, in one easy to navigate spot. With a simple tap on an icon, the UH Go app helps you: Check your last exam grade Find dining options on campus Pay for lunch contact-free Use your digital Cougar Card Add and drop classes Access Blackboard content Track your shuttle bus in real-time Call for help in an emergency Navigate your way around campus Find an upcoming event on campus Follow UH Athletic teams Receive notifications, alerts and news updates As an Alum, stay in touch with your Coog Family Like you, UH Go is always improving. Check back to see what new enhancements will roll out next. Download the UH Go App today Who manages the UH Go mobile app? The UH Go mobile app is the official app for the University of Houston, and it is managed by a cross-functional team. The Division of University Marketing and Communications is responsible for and manages the UH Go app brand, user experience (including navigation and content hierarchy) and notifications. University Information Technology provides technological expertise and customized development. Have a question or an idea for a new feature? We are always looking for ways to improve your experience and appreciate your feedback. Please contact us at uhgosupport@uh.edu or complete the UH Go Request to Add Feature form. Want to send a message to UH Go app users? Please submit your request to us at uhgosupport@uh.edu. The UH Go management team established best practices to ensure users have a positive experience when interacting with the app. These guidelines are available on the UH Go Mobile App Guidelines page. Resources: UH Brand Guidelines Push Notification Guidelines Focus on features. UH Go Grade Center See all your grades from Blackboard, CASA, and myUH in one place! Grades are updated every four hours. UH Go Emergency Call Stay safe on campus! With this new feature, you can share your location, so UH Police are just a tap away. UH Go Dine on Campus Check out menus and plan your meals before you go! Menus are updated every hour. UH Go Get Involved Find and RSVP to events on campus! Join your favorite student organizations, and stay up-to-date with campus events. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies