International Transfer - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are International Transfer Page contents: Deadlines Admissions Requirements English Language Requirements Application Process Student Life I-20 (F1 Visa) Contact Scholarships for International undergraduate students are available. Learn more Scholarship Opportunities Scholarships for International undergraduate students are available. Learn more Your new home away from home. Transfer to University of Houston, a leading Tier One university with more than 120 degree options and world-renowned professors. When you join UH, you become part of one of the most diverse student bodies in the country. You'll apply as an international transfer student if you plan to attend the University of Houston with citizenship from a country outside the U.S. and are transferring a minimum of 15 credit hours from an accredited university. Apply with the ApplyTexas Apply with the Common App Request Info Speak with an admissions expert International Transfer Students Important Dates and Deadlines Spring 2022 Application Due: November 1, 2021 Supporting Information* Due: November 5, 2021 Summer 2022 Application Due: April 1, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: April 8, 2022 Fall 2022 Application Due: May 31, 2022 Supporting Information* Due: June 10, 2022 *Supporting information includes application fee and official transcript(s) from all attended institution(s). Admissions Requirements Admissions Type Hours of College-Level Credit Earned Minimum Required GPA Assured Admission 15 or more* 2.5 Individual Review** 15 or more* 2.25-2.49 *If you've earned less than 15 hours of college-level credit, you'll have to meet freshman admission criteria to be admitted. Only credits obtained after earning a high school credential will be counted toward the 15 hours. **If you don’t meet the assured admissions requirements, we may consider additional factors in the admissions process. If we require additional documentation, we’ll request those materials from you. MAJORS WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS Many majors have additional requirements other than the ones listed above. For more information, visit uh.edu/transfer-majors-ar. See all International Transfer admissions requirements and instructions English Language Requirements All applicants, regardless of citizenship status, must demonstrate proficiency in English to obtain admission to the university. To fulfill this requirement, you must satisfy at least one of the following criteria: Earn a high school diploma, Associate of Arts, Associate of Science, bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited U.S. high school, college or university. Complete the equivalent of a high school education or the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree in a recognized English-speaking country. See list of recognized English-speaking countries Take the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) or IELTS (International English Language Testing Service) or the Duolingo English Test. See minimum test score requirements below. Complete Level 6 of the Intensive English Program at the University of Houston's Language and Culture Center. Test Score Requirements TOEFL (iBT) IELTS Overall Duolingo English Test 79 6.5 105 See all English Language Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Expand AllCollapse All How does UH calculate my GPA? We will calculate your cumulative GPA for all transferable college-level courses from all schools attended. For repeated courses, grades from all course attempts will be used for calculation of cumulative GPA. We do not count developmental coursework. The cumulative GPA is for admission purposes only and will not transfer to your UH GPA. What type of course credits transfer to UH? Transfer credit is awarded for college-level courses—completed with a C- or better— at regionally accredited colleges and universities. We’ll award college-level credit from regionally-accredited institutions who provide grades of S (Satisfactory) or P (Pass) during semesters impacted by COVID-19. Hours earned from S or P grades will be counted toward transfer hours, but will not be factored in the calculation of your cumulative transfer GPA and will not factor into your GPA at UH. F grades will count toward the calculation of your cumulative transfer GPA. Use our Transfer Credit Estimator, a new tool designed to help you estimate how your course credits may transfer to your chosen major and degree program. Can I be exempt from submitting test scores? International transfer students may be exempt from submitting a TOEFL or IELTS score by completing 30 or more semester credit hours from a U.S. accredited institution of higher education, including coursework equivalent to UH English Composition ENGL 1303 and ENGL 1304 with a grade of “C” or better and/or the completion of an AA or AS degree from an accredited institution of higher education. Application Process Expand All Collapse All 1 Apply Online & Pay Application Fee Use ApplyTexas or the Common App to apply. Submit just one application. The application is where you’ll indicate to be reviewed with or without ACT or SAT test scores. Be sure to complete the short admissions essay and tell us about your achievements and extracurricular activities. Pay the $90 Application Fee for international students ($75 for U.S. applicants) when you submit your online application. 2 Submit Proof of English Language Proficiency All applicants who completed/completing high school outside the US from a non-English speaking countries are required to provide proof of English Language Proficiency. Proof of English language proficiency must be received by the application deadline. Have your TOEFL, IELTS, or Duolingo English test score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. To learn about accepted test scores and exemptions, view our English language requirements. 3 Submit Transcripts Submit official college transcripts from all colleges or universities attended. Ask your college or university registrar to send your transcript data electronically through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede. They can also be sent by mail to 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. 4 Check Your Application Status Check your application status in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. 5 Receive Your I-20 Admitted students are notified by email and provided instructions to receive an I-20. Submit these materials after admission: Passport ID Financial Documents International Address Form Learn more about receiving your I-20 6 Become an #OfficialCoog Register for your mandatory Orientation in your my.uh.edu self-service portal. Then, complete the International Student Check-In. Learn more about the International Student Check-In process at uh.edu/oisss/students. Receiving Your I-20 (F-1 Visa) The following items are required to apply for an F-1 visa or maintain F-1 visa status. Upload your documents to your myUH self-service account at accessuh.uh.edu. (All documents must be uploaded as a PDF file.) Expand AllCollapse All Statement of Financial Support Form The Statement of Financial Support Form must be less than six months old from the date of the sponsor(s)’ signature(s). Bank Statement The bank statement must be less than six months old, and it must indicate a minimum balance of USD $41,410 or the equivalent. To upload: If you have more than one page, please save all pages into one PDF file before uploading. Copy of biometric page of current passport Submit a copy of your biometric page of your current passport (and U.S. visa, if available). International Address Form International students seeking an I-20 from the University of Houston must provide a physical address outside the United States in their home country using the International Address Form. Delivery and Pick Up Options Choose how you want to receive your I-20 from the three options below. Option 1: Regular Overseas Mail Overseas mail takes 4-6 weeks. If you want your I-20 sent by regular overseas mail, no response is required. Your I-20 will be sent by regular overseas mail to the address indicated on your International Address Form. Please do not e-mail to confirm your overseas address. Option 2: Express Mail With this option, you will receive your I-20 within 5 days after processing. Express mail is at the expense of the student. To select express mail: Go to the University Express Mail Service (UEMS) Select "Student Sign Up" Create an account Select the University of Houston as your school and the Office of Admissions as the department Enter your mailing, payment, and myUH ID Option 3: Pick Up Student I-20’s will be available for pick-up upon receipt of the I-20 Release Form. A confirmation e-mail for pick-up will be sent 3-5 business days from the date the release form is submitted. Transfer Excellence Scholarship This scholarship awards $1,000 per year ($500 each semester, limited to 2 years) to eligible transfer students who enroll in the fall semester. For eligibility requirements, visit uh.edu/scholarships. Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Out-of-state and international students who receive $1,000 or more from various competitive University scholarships may qualify for an out-of-state tuition waiver. This means waiver recipients will pay in-state tuition rates. Learn about other University, foundation, state, and private scholarships Student Life Housing Want to learn and grow in your own space? Living on campus is a great option. With multiple housing options to accommodate your campus experience, we can't wait to welcome you home! Get Involved 550+ student organizations. 35+ fraternities and sororities. 100+ multi-cultural organizations. 15 intercollegiate sports teams. No matter who you are, we have a lot to offer. So, between classes and making memories that’ll last a lifetime, you’re going to have plenty to do. Guided Virtual Tours The Office of Admissions is now offering virtual campus visits. Register for an opportunity to receive a live campus tour from a UH student ambassador and a brief information session from an admissions representative. This visit is approximately 30 minutes. ISSSO International Student and Scholar Services (ISSSO) provides support for the special needs of international students and exchange visitors related to their status as non-immigrants of the United States. They offer many services such as facilitating official campus check-in and orientation, assisting with maintaining visa status and U.S. regulation compliance, providing counseling and advocacy services, and more. Questions? Admissions representatives are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions representative for admissions support, you can schedule a virtual admissions advising appointment, or contact us by phone at (713)-743-1010, option 4 or by email at admissions@uh.edu. Please note that admissions representatives do not provide support with course selection or registration. Request a call from a student ambassador Phone (713)-743-1010, option 4 Email admissions@uh.edu Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Instagram Reddit TikTok Coogcast View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) View this post on Instagram A post shared by UH Office of Admissions (@uhadmissions) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies