Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Convergence Research with Andrew Lynch Tuesday, May 10, 2022 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm Join us for an evening of music with Andrew Lynch Andrew Lynch is a composer, sound designer, and performer. He strives to merge music, sound, performance and technology into a unified creative practice. His recent projects include A Midsummer Night’s Dream with Director Patricia McGregor at UCSD, Calafia at Liberty with the Wetsuit Collective at the La Jolla Playhouse’s WOW Festival, and Leap and the Net Will Appear presented by Catastrophic Theatre and New Georges. He’s currently a Mitchell Scholar in Residence in composition and sound design at the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts in Houston, Texas. Convergence Research is a new, ongoing platform for interdisciplinary research, experimentation, improvisation and performance. University of Houston students and faculty from across the disciplines–and beyond the arts–meet to discuss and present projects in a state of becoming. All are welcome to attend, observe and join the conversation. Event Page https://h6n.short.gy/SjhFmg Location Blaffer Art Museum, 4173 Elgin St. Houston, TX 77004 Cost Free Contact Lysette Portano lportano@CougarNet.UH.EDU University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies