PowerUP Employee Wellness - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide POWER UP Quick Links: EAP Newsletters Gallery and Past Events Cougar Walking Paths POWER UP Employee Wellness Page contents: Featured Events Resources Stats 2022 April Power UP Newsletter Upcoming Events Click HERE to see all events! May 31 12:00 pm Cougar Rhetoric, the Toastmasters International Club for UH Staff & Student Employees Join your fellow Coogs to develop your communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence, and both personal and professional growth. Cougar Rhetoric, the Toastmasters International Club for UH staff and UH Student Employees, meets every Tuesday from 12 pm - 1 pm. Jun 02 10:00 am TIAA - Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future Join the Human Resources Benefits team for Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future. Presented by TIAA Financial Consultant Nick Levy, this live webinar will examine the financial lessons learned from the past few years of living through the pandemic. Jun 07 12:00 pm Cougar Rhetoric, the Toastmasters International Club for UH Staff & Student Employees Join your fellow Coogs to develop your communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence, and both personal and professional growth. Cougar Rhetoric, the Toastmasters International Club for UH staff and UH Student Employees, meets every Tuesday from 12 pm - 1 pm. Jun 07 2:00 pm TIAA - Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future Join the Human Resources Benefits team for Hindsight 2020: Learning from the Past to Prepare for the Future. Presented by TIAA Financial Consultant Nick Levy, this live webinar will examine the financial lessons learned from the past few years of living through the pandemic. Jun 12 10:00 am Fitness Connect Community Talk about wellness topics and share your successes and challenges! Monthly sessions, featuring presentations by BCBSTX wellness consultants, can help you get fit and stay healthy. Each month, you’ll have the opportunity to connect with other participants and share your experiences. Featured Resources Mental Health Virtual Visits Consult a licensed mental health professional any day of the week online at no cost. A mental health Virtual Visit is similar to an outpatient visit to a mental health provider’s office but the visit is conducted online via video conference only. With HealthSelect of Texas, HealthSelect or HealthSelect Scondary can choose between Doctor On Demand and MDLIVE. Power Up "Healthier U" Wellness Calendar Create a "Healthier U" for yourself and the ones you love! Visit the Human Resources POWER UP virtual wellness calendar to participate in different no-cost well-being opportunities. Go online for workshops and webinars on nutrition, yoga, cardio dance, meditation, and more! Programs occur on different dates and times and are available to UH employees at no cost. Click the "Click HERE to see all events!" link to see each month's lineup of free activities and how to join in! “Healthier U” Resource Archive Are you looking to learn something new or enhance your personal wellness? For additional workshops and webinars, tricks, and tips to support your well-being, click here to see other resources available to you. COVID-19 and Your Health Plan Stay current with updates and changes to your health plan during this challenging time of Covid-19. Visit BCBSTX HealthSelect’s Covid-19 page to learn about the benefits available to you. On the FAQ document, you’ll also find updated information on testing, referrals, prior authorizations, and more. BCBSTX HEALTHSELECT WELLNESS BENEFITS Blue Points, Weight Management Programs, Tobacco Cessation, Health Coaching and the Fitness Program, as well health trackers, mobile apps, courses and more! MD VIRTUAL VISITS AT NO COST Consult a board-certified doctor anytime online or by phone at no cost. Doctors can diagnose and write prescriptions that can be sent directly to your pharmacy. Both medical and mental health virtual appoints are available. Learn more by visiting BCBSTX HealthSelect! Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Access confidential tele-counseling services and assistance with a wide variety of issues related to financial wellness, Life-Work Balance and more. The EAP provides a number of resources for eligible employees and their dependents. Bright Horizons Child and Back-Up Care The Bright Horizons benefit provides participants with family solutions and additional family support in the form of back-up child care and/or elder care. New this year, virtual tutoring assistance is also available. Learn more and register online for assistance when regular care arrangements fall through. Announcements POWER UP and Thrive!- Coming Soon! POWER UP your health and well-being with the NEW POWER UP Employee Wellness Platform. Log into AccessUH and click on the HR POWER UP Employee Wellness tile to create your account. From there, create your profile and complete the 5 tasks on the Onboarding Checklist. Explore, set goals and track your progress! WELLNESS LEAVE Safeguard your well-being and receive your reward! Are you familiar with the Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy, MAPP 02 .02 .0 8? Visit your PCP for a ROUTINE PHYSICAL EXAM and complete a simple online health assessment, and you’ll earn 2,500 BCBSTX Blue Points AND receive one full day off from work! To apply for your 8 hours of Wellness Leave or participate in Fitness Release Time (30 minutes, 3x/weekly to exercise), visit the POWER UP Wellness Policies tab and follow the instructions. WELLNESS RESOURCES The University of Houston Benefits office offers many different wellness options for employees! View the POWERUP Employee Newsletter to see: Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Support The University's EAP offers free counseling services and resources to support employees' life/work success. Bright Horizons Child and elder backup care. Mindfulness Meditation Sessions Attend weekly meditation sessions to help manage stress and achieve a better level of clarity and focus. QPR Training Attend virtual one-hour QPR training sessions by UH Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) regarding suicide prevention! Mental Health First Aid Training Learn how to help others in crisis. Mental Health First Aid is a skills-based training course that teaches you how to assist with mental health and substance use issues/crises offered by UH Wellness. Mental Health resources are available to you! Click here to learn about additional supports put in place to assist you and your dependents. Resources Expand AllCollapse All Contacts Courtney Stein Wellness Administrator CStein@central.uh.edu 713-743-1991 POWER UP Employee Wellness Platform Coming Soon! POWER UP Wellness Policies FRT and Wellness Policy MAPP 02.02.08: Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Employee Discounts We are pleased to offer University of Houston Staff and Faculty a number of discounts on many different products and services. Some businesses will want to see your University Faculty/Staff ID; others may want you to print out a coupon or enter a special discount code on their website. Special offers are available at: Saving Center Discounts for UH employees offered through the University’s Deer Oaks EAP Services. Corporate Shopping Company Special offers for current UH employees! Discount Puchase Program Discounts for State of Texas employees, retirees, and their immediate families administered by Beneplace! HealthSelect ShoppERS An incentive program that allows you to save money and earn rewards in a TexFlexSM health care flexible spending account (FSA) when shopping for certain medical services and procedures! Visit blue365deals.com/bcbstx for information on discounts available BCBSTX members and to sign up to receive weekly "Featured Deals" emails! BCBSTX Blue Points Earn Blue Points for regularly participating in many different healthy activities! For additional discounts on airport parking, auto rentals and telephone, click here. “Healthier U” Resource Archive Nine Dimensions of Wellness Herb Combinations and Seasonings Blends Recipes (PDF) Shopping, Cooking and Meal Planning American Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Dietary Supplement Safety Information 10 Minute Stretch Break Gratitude Budgeting Basics Worksheet Steps to Financial Recovery 30 Minute Meals (PDF) Building a Better Credit Report Feel Good Food: Nutrition to Support Immunity A Normal Response to an Abnormal Event (Handout) Mastering the Concept 2 Rower Budgeting Basics Pre & Post Workout Nutrition Never Has Physical Activity Been More Important Overcoming Postural Issues & Exercise Form (Handout) Quick Nutrition on the Go (Handout) Outdoor Workout Tips & Tricks (Handout) Walk on the Wild Side: How to reap the benefits of the outdoors 3 Simple Tips to Help Prevent the Top Threats to Men’s Health (Handout) Recharge Tactics: Strategies to Reset, Plug in & Perform Better (Handout) Quick Exercise Breaks (Handout) Managing Relationships During Stressful Times (Handout) Smashing Stigma and Supporting Mental Health Before, During, and After Crisis (Handout) Maximizing Grocery Store Trips & Managing Intake in a New Environment (Handout) Intro to Mindfulness - the what, why and how Unconventional Workout Equipment (Handout) Stress Management for Essential Staff (Handout) 10 Ways to maintain your health (and spirit!) while working from home Outsmart Your Mind to Eat Better (Handout) Matters of the Heart Which Fitness Test is Best For Me Healthy Holiday Season Limited Equipment Workout The Sitting Disease Quick and Easy Food Prep (Recipes) Forms Fitness Release Application Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) Completed HRA and Physician’s Certification of Routine Physical Exam Affidavit Cougar Walking Paths Cougar Walking Paths Maps University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies