Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land Campus Services Campus Security Campus Services Information Technology Library Dining Services Campus Security Daily Crime Log Facilities Room Request Bookstore Shuttle Service Parking Campus Safety Room Reservations Additional Links Emergency Guide Forms & Permits Campus Security Contact Us Call 832-842-2929 Email SLSecurity@uh.edu Security Office BH 174 Satellite Desk AMG Lobby University of Houston Police Department (UHPD) maintains a Security force at UH at Sugar Land consisting of a UHPD police sergeant, a security supervisor and security officers who are available during operating hours. It is important that students, faculty and staff take an active role in safety on campus by being security-conscious at all times and by reporting suspicious persons or situations immediately. UHPD maintains a Daily Crime Bulletin of reported activity. Parking Citations Violators of the University's parking rules and regulations can receive citations. Habitual or flagrant disregard of the rules and regulations is grounds for suspension of campus parking privileges or stronger action by the University. Parking citation appeals must be received by Parking and Transportation Services within 21 calendar days of citation issuance. Appeals are filed online by logging into your parking account via AccessUH. Emergency Notifications When severe weather or other emergency situations affect our communities, the UH System universities' presidents or chancellor may decide to close one or more of the UH System institutions to ensure the safety of our employees and students. UH System officials will alert employees and students of closings by its emergency notification systems. For more information, visit the UH Emergency Operations Center. Security Escorts Faculty, staff, students and guests may request a security escort to campus venues or to their vehicles in the parking lots. If you feel that you need an escort please contact Security at 832-842-2929. Children on Campus Unattended children are not allowed on campus. Children brought to campus must be supervised by an adult at all times. Faculty permission must be obtained prior to bringing a child under the age of 17 to class. Campus Carry Policy This policy was developed to comply with Senate Bill No. 11, also known as the “campus carry” law, and follows months of discussion and deliberation. Campus community members, including students, faculty and staff, were invited to share their input prior to the policy development through several open forums, a campus-wide survey, and emailed comments at campuscarry@uh.edu. For more information, please visit the UH Police Department's Campus Carry webpage. UH MAPP 07.01.05 - Campus Carry Policy Campus Carry Frequently Asked Questions Annual Security Report Each October, UH at Sugar Land makes the campus safety report available in the Security Office, Room BH 174, for all interested parties. More information on campus safety can be found at the UH Police Department website. Current Reports 2020 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report 2019 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report 2018 Annual Security & Fire Safety Report UH at Sugar Land crime and security report UH System at Cinco Ranch campus crime and security report Reports for UH 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies