Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Transcript Submission Guidelines Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Submitting Official High School and College Transcripts Guidelines To support our applicants and admitted students through the Admissions process, the Office of Admissions provides additional guidance on submitting your transcripts and other documents as part of the admissions process. The most reliable and quickest method to submit your official transcripts is sending documents directly from your school. The University of Houston reserves the right to refuse unacceptable transcripts submitted for admission decisions or current records. We highly encourage freshman applicants to self-report their transcript information. Please visit your task list in your my.uh.edu self-service portal to self-report your transcript information. You will only report your Math, Science, English, and Social Studies classes. Electronic/Digital Transcript Submissions Acceptable submissions of transcripts electronically/digitally: A PDF transcript may be delivered from a verifiable/secured source. Acceptable verifiable sources/venders: EDI* (Electronic Data Interchange) systems such as SPEEDe TREx* Parchment Naviance National Clearinghouse eSCRIP-SAFE A PDF transcript must be encrypted/digitally certified (delivered by secured email with a unique code to access/open transcript). The issuing institution must mark the transcript as “official”. Transcripts sent using the secure email method must be sent from the originating institutions or their provider, and the documents should not have already been opened/accessed. Regular Mail or Other Mail Service Transcript Submissions Acceptable submissions of transcripts sent by regular mail: Official transcripts should be mailed in an institutional-sealed envelope. Applicants may mail it to us if it remains sealed; otherwise, we will consider your submitted transcript as “unofficial” and you will need to have an official transcript resent. The University of Houston reserves the right to refuse unacceptable submissions of transcripts: If the electronic submission of transcript is not encrypted (delivered by secured email with special code to access/open transcript). If the electronic submission of transcript is delivered or forwarded directly from the applicant/student. If the electronic submission or hard-copy transcripts have been opened/ accessed first by another party. If electronic transcripts have been delivered or forwarded by other institutions/college via email. Transcripts sent by regular mail or electronic delivery are opened, resealed, or marked as “unofficial.” If transcripts sent by regular mail are scanned, imaged, or uploaded by the applicant/student. For freshman applicants using the self-reporting tool, please be sure to submit a final transcript with your graduation date conferred by mail or electronic delivery method, preferably before your New Student Orientation date, if admitted to the university. If your high school, college, or university cannot send your official transcripts electronically, please ask your school administrator to send your documents by mail in an institutional-sealed envelope to: Office of Admission University of Houston - Welcome Center 4434 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 *Preferred Method of Transcript Delivery for Freshman Applicants University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies