Skip to main content Restrict my search to Division of Research Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Division of Research About Organization Strategic Plan Research Thrusts 50-in-5 International Research National Centers Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Consortiums Research and Scholarship Committee UH Research Deans Notable Faculty Funding Opportunities Identifying Opportunities Limited Submissions Internal Awards Resources for Investigators Early Career Investigators Unique Opportunities Texas Research Incentive Program (TRIP) Center Requests For Proposals (RFPs) Internal Funding Terms & Conditions Sponsored Projects Pre-Award Post-Award Guidance Contracts, Audits and Policy Financial Reporting PeopleSoft Grants PI Portal Uniform Guidance A-81 Responsibilities Matrix Research Teams Other Resources Procedures, Policies and Guidelines Negotiated Indirect Rates Compliance Animal Subjects/IACUC Conflict of Interest Certification in Research Data Management Plan Effort Reporting Export Controls Human Subjects/IRB Research Congruency Review Research Misconduct Overview Research Misconduct Policy Responsible Conduct of Research Tech Transfer Resources Statistical Reports DOR Forms Business Tools New Faculty Training Systems SharePoint for DOR Frequently Asked Questions List of Faculty Authors Acronyms News & Events Contact Us Department Emails Email the DOR Send Kudos Staff Directory Technical Support UH Home Division of Research About Core Facilities About Organization Strategic Plan Research Thrusts National Centers Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Consortiums Research and Scholarship Committee UH Research Deans Notable Faculty Annual Report International Research Contact Us Cris Milligan Assistant Vice President for Research Administration cmilligan@uh.edu 713-743-9201 Core Facilities The Office of Research Core Facilities works to leverage equipment, resources and highly qualified staff that are accessible by a broad group of researchers within and outside of UH. Although cores exist at the University, college and department level, they maintain a common organizational umbrella under the Division of Research. The Office also manages research buildings and works with the colleges to address and meet research infrastructure needs. Animal Behavior Core Services: The UH ABC is available to all UH researchers that would like to use ABC equipment, or want to request rodent behavioral testing. External clients may request a full range of behavioral testing services offered by the UH ABC. Facilities: Approximately 2000 ft2 of area, 11 separate testing rooms, wide variety of behavioral testing equipment, all assessments are available for both mouse and rat models, latest Noldus software for acquisition and analysis of numerous behavioral measures. Animal Care Operations Services: ACO provides professional veterinary, surgical, and animal care services. Training is available on the care and use of animals for UH faculty, staff, and trainees. Equipment: Autoclaves, Class II Hoods, Clean Air Cabinets, Rack Assemblies, Work Stations, etc. Biology and Biochemistry Imaging Core Services: Provides the local research community with affordable access to advanced microscopy instrumentation and to provide training in the use of these instruments. Aims to help you get the best data from your experiments through the use of confocal microscopy, Ca2+ imaging, FRAP, FRET and other advanced microscopy techniques. Equipment: Olympus FV1000 inverted confocal microscope; Leica SP8 upright confocal microscope in our main room (SR2 328A). A Leica MZ8 dissecting stereoscope is available for use in sample preparation. Burdette Keeland, Jr. Design Exploration Center Services: Fabrication space for students at the University of Houston College of Architecture and Design with over 50 total machines. Equipped with the latest in wood working, metal working, and digital fabrication tools. Students who have attended safety orientations and instructional demonstrations have convenient access to important tools of their professions, providing them valuable experience in prototyping, fabrication, and model building as they compete in their discipline. Center for Life Sciences Technology Services: Engaged in developing innovative interdisciplinary reserach-based education, 21st century workforce development, outreach, and cutting edge research. Equipment: Bio Fermentors; Chromatographic Systems; Sequencing amd PCR; Plate Reader and Spectrophotometer; Centrifuguration, etc. Center for Nuclear Receptors and Cell Signaling Center for Petroleum Geochemistry Services: Industry Directed Research and Development; Specialized Technical Support; Multiciscipline-Trained Professionals Equipment: Allied Geophysical Laboratories; Carbonate Research Lab; Geochemistry: ICP AES, ICP-MS Hydrogeochemistry Lab; Hydrogeology Field Equipment; MC-ICP-MS Lab; Paleomagnetics Lab; Platinum Group Element Geochemistry And Thermal Ionization Mass Spectrometer Lab; Stable Isotope Lab; Thermochronology Lab; X-Ray Crystallography; etc. CHBE Machine Shop Service Center Services: Machine and fabrication services Equipment: HAAS CNC Mill; Colcheseter 600 CNC Lathe; MSC Milling Machine; Drill Press; Bridge Port Mill; LeBlond Lathe; Band Saw; Metal Shear, Bench Shear; Bench Metal Shear; Wilton Horizontal Ban Saw; Miller TIG Welder; Misc. Grinders; etc. Chemistry Service Facilities (Electronic, Glass, Machine, NMR, X-Ray) NMR Services: Provides the University research community with affordable access to three high field NMR spectrometers available 24x7. Basic operational training to advanced experimental instruction are provided as needed. External clients may request NMR analytical services which are worked into the University research scheduling requirements when possible. Instrumentation: JEOL ECZ400 with H/F - X dual broadband 5mm probe, JEOL ECA500 with H/F - X duel broadband 5mm probe, and a solid state 3.2mm {H}X CPMAS probe, JEOL ECA600II with H/F - X dual broadband 5mm probe. Licensed processing software JEOL Delta 5.3 is available upon request. Glassblowing Services: Scientific glassblowing services; custom fabricate glassware. Provides scientific machining services; fabricate apparatus and parts from a variety of materials to custom design specifications; also provide repair work and assist with design. X-ray Diffractometry Services: Single crystal crystallographic analysis; X-ray powder diffraction. Equipment: X-Ray powder diffractometer; CCD X-ray diffractometer. X-ray Photoelectron spectroscopy College of Pharmacy Core Lab Services: Local researchers as well as their students and postdoctoral associates are provided with advanced technologies and equipment to conduct innovative work in the fields of drug discovery, novel target identification and translational research that will yield the next generation of therapeutics to save lives and improve the quality of life for countless patients. Equipment: FACSMelody Cell Sorter Flow Cytometer; Leica SP8 STED Confocal Microscope; Leica TP1020 Tissue Processor; IVIS XRMS In Vivo L-F Imager and X-Ray; JEOL 600 NMR; SCIEX 5500 & Shimadzu UPLC; Vevo 3100 Small Animal Ultrasound System; BioRad QX200 Droplet Digital PCR System; Anton Paar Microwave Reactor; and AKTA Pure Chromatography System. Earth & Atmospheric Sciences Rock Physics Laboratory (RPL) RPL supports the research efforts of the oil and gas industry by conducting research in rock physics and by providing analytical and evaluation services. The primary goal is to carry out industry oriented research, investigate reservoir rock properties, and integrate them with logging and seismic technology to solve common exploration and production problems. RPL also works with industry to provide technical services on proprietary projects. Geosciences Remote Sensing (GeoRS) Facility Services: Terrestrial Laser Scanning and the Hyperspectral Camera. Equipment: Remote Sensing and GPS; Shallow Geophysical Facilities: GSSI SIR-3000 Ground Penetrating Radar (400 MHz, 200 MHz and 100 MHz antennaes), GSSI EM Profiler. Data Storage and Web Application: 8 TB Fail Safe (redundant) File Server; GIS Server for Web Mapping Applications to share results of finished or ongoing research with clients or public; 4 iPads; Plotter Printer; etc. Geosensing Imaging & Mapping (GIM) Laboratory – NCALM Houston Omics Collaborative A Proteomics/Genomics service facility at the University of Houston. Based on a non-profit model, we aim to offer various technologies and expertise in OMICs to the biomedical research community, particularly academic laboratories. Our services include, but are not limited to, cutting-edge targeted proteomics that screen 10-1000+ proteins, a variety of autoantigen microarrays for autoantibody screening, biomarker detection, genome analysis, gene expression microarrays, microRNA analysis, and a suite of data analysis options. Our products and services cover the entire workflow process – from assay consultation with experienced personnel to data analysis and data presentation. Collaborations are welcome. ICP Analytical Research Laboratories Services: ICP (Inductively Coupled Plasma) research laboratory specializes in characterizing the chemical and isotopic compositions of materials, including the ability to provide direct micron-scale analysis of solid samples. Equipment: CETAC LSX-213 Laser Ablation System. Ion Beam Laboratory, TcSUH Develop and refine ion beam techniques for materials characterization and to study ion beam modification of materials for various applications. Equipment: 1.7 MV Tandem Accelerator, 200 kV Ion Implanter; Gas Cluster Ion Beam System; Atomic Force Microscope; Sputter Deposition System; Thermal Annealing System; Rapid Thermal Annealing System; and Optical Spectroscope Laser Ablation Multi-Collector ICO-MS & Geochemistry Laboratory Instruments: Nu Instruments Plasma II - Multi Collector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer equipped with 16 Faraday collectors and 5 Ion counters; Cetac Aridus II - Desolvating nebulizer; Photon Machines Analyte 193 - Short pulse eximer laser ablation system Facilities: Class 500 clean lab; Mineral separation lab Mass Spectrometry Laboratory Equipment: Voyager DE-STR Biospectrometry Workstation from Applied Biosystems; LCQ Deca XP Plus from Thermo Finnigan; TRACE MS Plus from Thermo Finnigan. Materials Characterization Facility, TcSUH The Materials Characterization Laboratory provides a wide array of materials characterization techniques, including electron microscopy and x-ray diffraction, supported by necessary sample preparation techniques. Equipment: Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM); Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM); DOIL; XRD 5000; XRD Rigaku; and Electron Microprobe Analysis Mechanical Engineering GM 2D-XRD Facility GM 2D-XRD facility offers a state-of-the-art 2D X-ray diffraction system for advanced characterization of materials. The facility offers unprecedented speed and data quality for 2D-XRD. Typical 2D sections of large fractions of reciprocal space can be done in a matter of minutes. Complete 3D mapping of reciprocal space can be done in a matter of an hour. Custom developed software by the PI enables reconstruction of the entire 3D volume of reciprocal space. Arbitrary sections of the reciprocal collected space can be visualized and features of interest quantified. Arbitrary number of pole figures can be rapidly reconstructed from the 3D volume. NSM IT Printing Services Research Computing Data Core Texas Center for Clean Engines, Emissions and Fuels Texas Center for Superconductivity Thermal Ionization Mass Spectrometer (TIMS) Laboratory Thermal and Porosity Analysis Facility, TcSUH TAPAF will bring together instrumentation and technical expertise in four areas of advanced materials characterization: (a) thermo-gravimetric analysis (TGA), (b) differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), (c) measurement of gas sorption and porosity, and (d) dilatometry. UH Nanofabrication Lab UH Seq-N-Edit Core (SNEC) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies