Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost Policies and Resources University Policies and Resources Honorary Degrees University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Honorary Degrees Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Contact Information For questions regarding Honorary Degrees, please email facultyaffairs@uh.edu or 713-743-6894. Honorary Degrees Overview and Nomination Process Overview and Nomination Process The University of Houston System seeks to honor outstanding individuals in fields such as public service, the arts and sciences, the professions, business, religion, and philanthropy. Nominations are invited for individuals of true distinction and/or who have made exceptional contributions to the University of Houston. An honorary degree should honor the recipient, the University, and the System. According to University of Houston System Board of Regents Policy 21.02 "Employees and regents of the system and officials currently holding elective offices are ineligible to receive honorary degrees; however, persons of national prominence in their field are excepted from this restriction." The selection process consists of the following: Nominations are accepted at any time, with a formal request for nominations distributed to key support groups each year. An internal advisory committee will review nominations. The names of the candidates identified as acceptable by the advisory committee will be given to the Chancellor with appropriate documentation. From that list, the Chancellor will recommend who should be awarded an honorary degree during either fall or spring commencement. The Board will provide guidance to the Chancellor in the final selection process. To assist the advisory committee in its deliberations, please include the following items for consideration: A letter of nomination describing the nominee's qualifications relative to the criteria given above; Curriculum vitae or professional resume of the nominee; A completed UHS Honorary Degree Nomination Form. Feel free to reproduce the form and vary the length of sections, but the document should be limited to two pages; Other supporting letters, pertinent data, or additional relevant information that may be deemed appropriate. Please refrain from contacting the nominee. The advisory committee will be required to preserve the confidentiality of the nominations as well. As you are no doubt aware, it is required that honorary degree recipients attend the award ceremony. In order to enhance the likelihood that those selected to receive honorary degrees, who are typically very busy people, will be able to schedule participation in award related events. Accordingly, please submit nominations and supporting information on or before Friday, September 23, 2022. Please submit nominations to facultyaffairs@uh.edu or to the below address: University of Houston 204 E. Cullen Building Houston, Texas 77204-2019 Attn: Faculty Affairs For your convenience, a listing of the past University of Houston System honorary doctoral degree recipients are also located on this site and biographies for past recipients can be found here. Thank you for your interest and participation in this process. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies