Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost About Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts About Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Staff Contact Information For general office inquiries, please call the main line at 832-842-0550. For all other inquiries, please contact Cindy Mejia, Chief of Staff. Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Vice and Associate Provosts report to the Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, Paula Myrick Short. Find their information listed below. Mark Clarke, Associate Provost, Faculty Development and Faculty Affairs Mark Clarke, Ph.D. Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Faculty Affairs mclarke@central.uh.edu Responsible for activities related to the recruitment, hiring, orientation, professional development, recognition, and promotion and tenure of faculty. Dr. Mark S. Clarke is Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Faculty Affairs at the University of Houston. He is responsible for activities related to the recruitment, hiring, orientation, professional development, recognition, and promotion and tenure of faculty. As part of his duties he oversees the Office of Faculty Recruitment, Retention, Equity and Diversity, the Office for Faculty Engagement and Development (FED), the Office of Faculty Affairs and Assessment, the Office of Academic Policy, the Measurement and Evaluation Center and Ombuds Services. He is also responsible for interfacing with a range of faculty groups including the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Faculty Senate in developing new policies and programs designed to build and retain a diverse, world-class faculty at UH while enhancing the success of existing faculty. Prior to joining the Office of the Provost in 2015, Dr. Clarke served for three years as Associate Vice-Chancellor /Vice-President for Technology Transfer in the Division of Research responsible for managing a portfolio of over 350 patents covering various technology sectors. During this time, Dr. Clarke established a robust, nationally recognized innovation and entrepreneurial (I&E) ecosystem which included the creation of the UH Innovation Center and the UH Laboratory Incubator facility located at the UH Energy Research Park while also helping UH faculty and students establish more than 20 start-up companies based on UH technologies. Dr. Clarke began his postdoctoral research career in the Department of Cell Biology & Anatomy at Harvard Medical School after receiving a M.I. Biol. in Pharmacology (1987) and a Ph.D. in Cell Biology & Biochemistry (1991) from Manchester Metropolitan University in the UK. In 1994, he moved to NASA-Johnson Space Center as a National Research Council Fellow and later joined the NASA/Life Sciences Directorate as a Senior Staff Scientist responsible for directing the operations of the Muscle Research Laboratory. In 2002 he joined UH as a tenured professor in Health and Human Performance as the Founding Director of the Laboratory for Integrated Physiology while continuing his role as Science Lead on several space flight experiments on the International Space Station. His research has focused primarily on the effects of mechanical loading on the musculoskeletal system, the development of real-time biomedical monitoring technologies, and more recently novel bone regeneration technologies. To date, he has received over $4 million in external research funding as Principal Investigator or Co-Investigator from NASA, DARPA, NSF, NIH and private industry sources. He has published over 60 peer-reviewed scientific articles and book chapters, holds 11 US patents, 7 NASA Technical Innovation Space Act Awards and has been a founder in two life sciences start-up companies. He currently serves as the Principal Investigator for a NSF-funded Innovation Corps (I-CORPS) Site at UH focused on developing the next generation of STEM-educated entrepreneurs. Joseph A. Curtin, Associate Provost, Institutional Research and Effectiveness Joseph A. Curtin, Ph.D. Associate Provost, Institutional Research and Effectiveness jcurtin@Central.UH.EDU Responsible for all aspects of the development, design, and implementation of institutional research and assessment initiatives including performance management, academic data management/ reporting, accreditation, and program evaluation. Dr. Curtin joined the University of Houston in July of 2019 after serving as the Assistant Commissioner for Institutional Research with the Utah System of Higher Education (2008-2019). Prior to his work with the Utah system office, he was an Associate Director for Institutional Assessment and Analysis at Brigham Young University (1996-2008), and a Senior Research Analyst in the Office of Institutional Research and Planning at Utah Valley State College (1990-1996). In addition to his work in institutional research, assessment, and planning, Dr. Curtin has worked as an adjunct faculty member teaching Introduction to Statistics for the Behavioral Sciences at Utah Valley University and Budget and Planning in Higher Education at the University of Utah. He has earned a B.S. in Information Management (1989), a MPA - Public Administration (1996), and a Ph.D. in Instructional Psychology and Technology (2007) with an emphasis in research, measurement, and evaluation from Brigham Young University. He has presented at numerous regional and national conferences for groups such as Association for Institutional Research (AIR), American Educational Research Association (AERA), International Objective Measurement Workshop (IOMW) among others. He has served as the President/Treasurer of the Rocky Mountain Association for Institutional Research (RMAIR) and as a National Center for Educational Statistics (NCES) IPEDS educator. Sabrina Hassumani, Associate Provost, Finance and Administration Sabrina Hassumani, Ph.D. Associate Provost for Finance and Administration shassumani@uh.edu Responsible for division-wide management, compliance, and reporting for financial and HR resources. Appointed in September 2014, Sabrina Hassumani serves as Associate Provost for Finance and Administration. In this position, Dr. Hassumani’s responsibilities include division-wide financial planning, budgeting, business operations, compliance, and human resources management. Prior to this appointment, she served as Assistant Provost of Planning and Policy, and Executive Director for Academic Budgets. Her experience external to UH includes eight years at the Texas Real Estate Commission (TREC). At TREC she facilitated revamping the agency’s strategic planning process, redesigned the website, and worked closely with the Texas Department of Information Resources to make TREC the first state agency to accept online license renewals. She earned her Ph.D. in English from the University of Houston, where her graduate work focused on critical theory and contemporary literature. In addition to over 20 years of administrative experience in higher education, Dr. Hassumani has served as an adjunct lecturer since 1991. Courses she has taught at the University of Houston include Business Communications, Ethics, and Critical Thinking, American Literature since 1865, and Contemporary American Fiction. Her book entitled, Salman Rushdie: A Postmodern Reading of His Major Works was published by Fairleigh Dickinson University Press in 2002. Erika Henderson, Associate Provost for Faculty Recruitment, Retention, Equity and Diversity Erika Henderson, Ed.D. Associate Provost for Faculty Recruitment, Retention, Equity and Diversity ejhenderson@uh.edu Responsible for designing and executing strategies to ensure that the University of Houston recruits and retains an excellent and diverse faculty. Dr. Henderson has more than thirty years of experience leading organizational efforts to recruit, develop, and retain the best and brightest talent in the higher education and federal government sectors. She serves as associate provost for faculty recruitment, retention, equity, and diversity for the University of Houston. Dr. Henderson previously served as senior policy advisor to the U.S. Department of Labor’s Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration. Prior to joining the Department of Labor, Dr. Henderson was the Deputy Director for the nonpartisan White House Fellows program, the nation’s premier fellowship for public service and leadership. Dr. Henderson has also held other leadership positions in higher education. She has extensive experience in program administration, leadership development, strategic planning, and the delivery of effective organizational recruitment campaigns. A native of Houston, she holds a Doctorate in Higher Education from George Washington University, as well as a Bachelor of Science in Business Management and a Master of Arts in Counseling, both from Hampton University. Dr. Henderson serves on the editorial board for INSIGHT Into Diversity magazine, which is the oldest and largest diversity magazine and website in higher education today. Sarah Larsen, Vice Provost and Dean of the Graduate School Sarah Larsen, Ph.D. Vice Provost and Dean, Graduate School Responsible for planning and developing a University of Houston graduate school, including the coordination of graduate admissions, the implementation of graduate school policies and procedures, and ensuring adequate financial support for graduate students. Teri Elkins Longacre, Vice Provost and Dean, Undergraduate Student Success Teri Elkins Longacre, J.D., Ph.D. Vice Provost and Dean, Undergraduate Student Success elkins@uh.edu Responsible for articulating and implementing a strategic vision for the university’s undergraduate student success efforts, including academic advising, research opportunities, and improvement of academic programs. Teri Elkins Longacre currently serves as Vice Provost and Dean for Undergraduate Student Success in the Office of Academic Affairs and is an Associate Professor of Management at the C. T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston, where she joined the faculty in 1997. Teri previously served as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs in Bauer and as the University of Houston Faculty and Staff Ombudsperson. She received her undergraduate degree from Baylor University and a Ph.D. and J.D. from the University of Houston. She teaches in the areas of business law, employment law, managerial communication, human resource management, and organizational behavior, and coordinates an internship program with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Teri has published scholarly articles on the topics of employment discrimination, employee selection practices, affirmative action plans, leadership, and academic internship programs. Her articles have appeared in the Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Applied Social Psychology, Leadership Quarterly, Sex Roles, Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, SAM Advanced Management Journal, International Journal of Innovation and Technology Management, Journal of Managerial Issues, International Journal of Human Resource Management, and the Journal of Occupational Health Psychology. Jeff Morgan, Associate Provost, Education Innovation and Technology Jeff Morgan, Ph.D. Associate Provost for Education Innovation and Technology jjmorgan@uh.edu Responsible for assessing the effectiveness of different teaching modalities and identifying technologies to advance learning and teaching. Jeff Morgan has held the position of associate provost for education innovation and technology at the University of Houston (UH) since January 2014, after serving in an interim role for the previous 7 months. Prior to that time, he held a number of positions at UH, including department chair in mathematics from 2003 to 2013, the founder and director of the center for academic support and assessment since 2004, and the co-founder and co-director of the teachHOUSTON STEM teacher training program since 2007. Morgan obtained his bachelors, masters and doctoral degree from the University of Houston, and then spent 16 years at Texas A&M University (TAMU) prior to returning to UH in 2002. He has received numerous teaching awards at TAMU and UH, including a Piper teaching award in the spring of 2013. Morgan is a passionate teacher, and a strong advocate of the use of technology, both inside and outside the classroom. He has worked with k12 teachers through his direction of the Houston Area Calculus Teachers Association since 2001, he has created and facilitated the development of a multitude of online learning materials for a variety of mathematics courses, he has helped developed a considerable amount of instructional software, and developed numerous courses that have been taught in both live and live-online formats. Jay Neal, Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer of University of Houston at Sugar Land and University of Houston at Katy Jay Neal, Ph.D. Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer of University of Houston at Sugar Land and University of Houston at Katy jayneal@uh.edu Dr. Neal currently serves as the Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer of the University of Houston at Sugar Land and University of Houston at Katy. He also served as an associate professor at the UH Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management where he taught for more than 15 years, and as the Interim Director of the Hilton College at San Antonio. Dr. Neal has a Ph.D. in Food Microbiology from Texas A&M University, and a B.S. and a Master's degree in Hotel and Restaurant Management from the University of Houston. Additionally, he has industry experience in the food and beverage sector, and is a member of the International Association of Food Protection, a member of the Institute of Food Technologists, and a member of the Research Chefs Association. He is a past recipient of the Donald Greenway Award for Teaching Excellence. University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies