CECSR - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Home UH Energy Research CECSR CONSORTIUM FOR ENERGY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MEET MANAGING DIRECTOR DR. SURYANARAYANAN RADHAKRISHNAN × Dr. Suryanarayanan (Radha) Radhakrishnan Managing Director Dr. Suryanarayanan Radhakrishnan is a Professor of Practice in Decision and Information Sciences at University of Houston’s Bauer College of Business. He is also the Managing Director of UH Energy. Prior to joining the University of Houston, he had worked 36 years for Shell in various responsible positions mostly in Planning, Strategy, Marketing and Business Management. Since retiring from Shell in 2010, Dr. Radhakrishnan has been teaching courses at the Bauer College of Business, in Supply Chain Management, Project Management, Business Process Management, Innovation Management and Statistics. He teaches undergraduate, MBA and Executive MBA classes. At UH Energy, he has been involved in the development of UH Energy’s strategy working closely with the Energy Advisory Board. He coordinates the day to day working of UH Energy. Dr. Radhakrishnan holds a bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from Osmania University, India; a master’s degree in Industrial Engineering from Oklahoma State University and a doctoral degree in Business Administration from University of Houston. 713-743-4167 sradha.uh@gmail.com Office: Melcher Hall, Room 280K Close Dr. Suryanarayanan Radhakrishnan Managing Director, Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility Dr. Suryanarayanan Radhakrishnan is a Professor of Practice in Decision and Information Sciences at University of Houston’s Bauer College of Business. He is also the Managing Director of UH Energy. Prior to joining the University of Houston, he had worked 36 years for Shell in various responsible positions mostly in Planning, Strategy, Marketing and Business Management. Since retiring from Shell in 2010, Dr. Radhakrishnan has been teaching courses at the Bauer College of Business, in Supply Chain Management, Project Management, Business Process Management, Innovation Management and Statistics. He teaches undergraduate, MBA and Executive MBA classes. At UH Energy, he has been involved in the development of UH Energy’s strategy working closely with the Energy Advisory Board. He coordinates the day to day working of UH Energy. Dr. Radhakrishnan holds a bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from Osmania University, India; a master’s degree in Industrial Engineering from Oklahoma State University and a doctoral degree in Business Administration from University of Houston. CONTACT DR. RADHAKRISHNAN The Mission The University of Houston, in collaboration with a consortium of energy companies, is advancing the practice of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focused on the various sectors of the energy industry. We intend to educate and carry out research in collaboration with members of the Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR). The purpose of the CECSR organization is to enable a common platform for industry and academic subject matter experts to enable sharing of practices, development of common approaches, address many of the critical commercial and pedagogical issues, address critical research and deployment challenges that advance CSR knowledge and its translation to the energy business, all with the intent to advance the practice of CSR in the energy industry. The initial focus of CECSR will be on: Development of methodology and approach for addressing the business case for practice of CSR in the upstream, midstream and downstream energy industry Establishing processes and rubrics for CSR implementation in the various sectors of the energy industry Development of standards for CSR performance metrics Development of training materials and training of entry level, mature CSR professionals and energy industry executives Features in ESG ESG in Energy Micro-credentialing Program August, 2021 The energy industry is undergoing a transition as it addresses its role in meeting the continued growth in demand for energy while ensuring it is cost competitive, sustainable, and its use is environmentally safe. LEARN MORE ESG in the Energy Industry Workshop February, 2020 The Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility (CECSR) at the University of Houston (UH) will host a day long workshop on Environment, Social, and Corporate Governance (ESG) as applied to the different sectors of the energy industry on February 27, 2020. LEARN MORE Corporate Social Responsibility in the Energy Industry April, 2018 UH Energy White Paper Series: No. 04.2018 READ THE WHITE PAPER UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies