EV Myths, Misconceptions, Surprises, and Perspectives: A Research- and Personal Experience-Based View - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Energy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Energy About UH Energy About UH Energy The Energy Advisory Board The Energy Coalition Faculty Energy Fellows Energy Education Educational Programs in Energy Micro-credentialing Programs Hub TIEEP | Texas Industrial Energy Efficiency Program Interdisciplinary Programs Technology Challenge Accelerating Credentials of Purpose and Value (ACPV) Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Energy Research Energy Research Hub CECSR | Consortium for Energy Corporate Social Responsibility NASEM | National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine SSI | Subsea Systems Institute Energy Forecast EVolve Houston Hydrogen Programs Project SHOWPLACE Research Reports Climate Change and Carbon Management: Has the U.S. Transcended Partisanship? Carbon Management Report 2020: Changing Attitudes and an Opportunity for Action White Paper Series Forbes Blog Read Our Forbes Blog Forbes Blog Books Webinar Series Archives CCME Webinar Archive EV Webinar Archive UHE Webinar Archive Center for Carbon Management in Energy About Us CCUS Consortia with SSEB Research CCME Webinar Series Webinar Series Webinar Series Archive Energy Symposium Series 2021-2022 Symposium Series Symposium Series Archives News & Events Connections Newsletter Energy In The News Energy Events Upcoming Events Events Archive CCME Webinar Series Archive EV Webinar Series Archive UH Energy Webinar Series Archive E:90 Video Competition Hall Of Fame Student Opportunities Current Opportunities Student Resources Contact Us UH Energy Webinar Series EV Myths, Misconceptions, Surprises, and Perspectives: A Research- and Personal Experience-Based View Speaker Presentation Slides: VIEW SLIDES Everyone has heard the surface benefits of electric vehicles: cheaper to own and operate, environmentally-conscious, etc. However, the typical treatment of EVs in mass media has resulted in a society dulled into a point of disinterest about a topic that has the attention of global administrators. Join Daniel Richmond of Green Mountain Energy as he takes a deep dive beyond the common rhetoric regarding EVs, peeling back the curtain to also reveal uncommon observations – gathered through research and first-hand-experience – to recapture audiences. This webinar is sure to be a learning experience for all and will provide multiple new perspectives for the new EV driver as well as those on the fence about the transition while providing even more in-depth knowledge on how the world of renewable technology continues to sustain and evolve. Guest Speaker Speaker: Daniel Richmond Manager of EV and Solar Strategy, Green Mountain Energy Daniel Richmond is the Manager of EV and Solar Strategy for Green Mountain Energy. He is passionate (nay, evangelical!) about helping customers get solar panels on their roofs and EVs in their driveways, and has been working with EVs, renewables, and solar since 2011 (which is when he drove his first electric car.) Originally from the Washington, DC area, he moved to Houston in 2004 to go to Rice, where he initially got into renewable energy and energy efficiency by writing a business plan for an Energy Service Company. Since then, he’s gotten his MBA from Tulane University (which he paid for partially by selling LED light bulbs) and now lives in Katy with his wife and two daughters. UH Energy E. Cullen Building, Room 124AB Houston, TX 77204-2040 713-743-5355 Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Emergency Information President's Office Report Fraud Library Campus Directory Interested in all things energy? Keep up to date by subscribing to one of our mailing lists: SUBSCRIBE ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies