Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Residency Requirements Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Residency Requirements The University of Houston is a state university, meaning Texas residents and non-residents have different tuition rates. Residents of the state of Texas will be billed in-state tuition and non-residents will be billed out-of-state tuition. Determining Residency There must be conclusive evidence of a student’s intent to permanently establish domicile in Texas. Domicile means to live and maintain gainful employment in the State of Texas. Those wishing to change their residency status must show they have domiciled in the state of Texas for 12 months or more prior to the semester in which is being applied. If the admissions application indicates you aren’t a U.S. citizen or permanent resident but that you may qualify for residency based on Texas high school graduation, you will be prompted to download and submit the Residency Affidavit. The form must be completed, signed, notarized and submitted to the university. Residency Classification Review Do you think you may qualify for residency in the state of Texas? If you believe you are incorrectly classified, take steps to correct the inaccuracy by submitting the Residency Questionnaire, along with supporting documents, to the Office of the Registrar. Questions? If you have any questions regarding residency requirements, please contact the Office of the Registrar. Location Welcome Center 4400 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2027 Contact Information Phone: 713-743-1010, option 7 Fax: 713-743-9050 Fax: 713-743-8342 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies