Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation Parking on Campus On-Campus Apartments Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus Maps Parking permits Rules, Citations and Appeals Visitors UH Tech Bridge Parking Evenings and Weekends Disability Parking Business Parking Traffic and Parking Lot Alerts Parking Lot/Garage Accidents Parking Garages Zoned Parking Sugar Land Parking Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Katy Parking Lots With No Overnight Parking On-Campus Apartments Relaxed Parking COAST Alternative Transportation Program Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 On-Campus Apartments A valid University of Houston parking permit is needed in order to park at the three on-campus residential apartment complexes. Any valid permit will allow residents to park in the parking area inside the gates at the complexes. Bayou Oaks Residents can use any valid UH parking permit (with the exception of the evening-weekend permit) to park in the gated area. Residents will also need to display the Bayou Oaks decal, which is available from apartment management at no cost. Only Zone D permits can park in the ungated lots that are near to Bayou Oaks and outside of the gated area (see map below). Cullen Oaks Residents can use any valid UH parking permit (with the exception of the evening-weekend permit) to park in the gated area at Cullen Oaks. Residents will also need to display the Cullen Oaks decal, which is available from apartment management at no cost. Only Zone E permits can park in the ungated lots that are near to Cullen Oaks and outside of the gated area (see map below). Cambridge Oaks Residents can use any valid UH parking permit (with the exception of the evening-weekend permit) to park in the gated area at Cambridge Oaks. Residents will also need to display the Cambridge Oaks decal, which is available from apartment management at no cost. Only Zone E permits can park in the ungated lots that are near to Bayou Oaks and outside of the gated area (see map below). University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies