Skip to main content Restrict my search to Learning Abroad Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Learning Abroad Start Here Programs Faculty-Led Programs Exchange Programs Affiliated Programs Student Service Organizations Abroad Scholarships International Education Scholarship External Scholarships Financial Resources and Information Resources Student Resources Diversity & Identity Abroad Faculty and Staff Resources Parent Resources Events & Outreach Learning Abroad 101 Global Guides Policies & Guidelines Health & Safety CISI Insurance Passport for Coogs Application Forms Reimbursement Forms Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Our Staff UH Home Provost Learning Abroad Scholarships External Scholarships Learning Abroad Start Here Programs Scholarships International Education Scholarship (IES) CITE Learning Abroad Scholarships External Scholarships Financial Resources and Information Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Events & Outreach Global Guides Passport for Coogs Health & Safety Policies & Guidelines Parent Resources Contact Us Contact Learning Abroad E. W. Cullen Bldg. Suite 105 4302 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204-2039 learningabroad@uh.edu (713) 743-9167 Passport Acceptance Facility: 8:30am - 1:00pm only (713) 743-4687 Diverse International Women of Color (DIWC) Scholarship External Scholarships University of Houston students are eligible to apply for the external scholarships listed below. Please note that this is not an all-inclusive list of scholarships. You may be eligible for other scholarships you find outside of this list. Nationally Competitive Scholarships for Learning Abroad Benjamin A. Gilman Scholarship Program Students receiving federal Pell Grant funding during the academic term of his/her application are eligible Must be applying to or accepted into a program in a U.S. Department of State Level 1 or 2 location. Click here for more information about Gilman’s Travel Advisory Policy Contact: Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program Contact Page. Deadline: October 4, 2022 for the fall cycle Amount: Up to $5,000 for semester or academic-year programs Can be combined with the Gilman Critical Need Language Supplement for up to $8,000 Arabic (all dialects); Chinese (all dialects); Bahasa Indonesia; Japanese; Turkic (Azerbaijani, Kazakh, Kyrgz, Turkish, Uzbek); Persian (Farsi, Dari, Kurdish, Pashto, Tajik); Indic (Hindi, Urdu, Nepali, Sinhala, Bengali, Punjabi, Marathi, Gujarati, Sindhi); Korean; Russian; Swahili Note: Students must meet with their Learning Abroad advisor to review their essays before submitting to the online portal for certification. Students are also strongly encouraged to attend the Gilman Writing Workshop before meeting with their advisor. Fund for Education Abroad Summer 2022, Fall 2022, and Academic Year 22-23 applications are under review. Spring 2023 scholarship application will open July 1, 2022! Awards up to $10,000 Undergraduate students only Must be U.S. Citizen, permanent resident, or DACA student Program must be at least 28 days long and student must earn UH credit Deadline: TBA Phi Kappa Phi Study Abroad Grants Applications for Summer 2022, Fall 2022, and Spring 2023 programs are now under review 125 $1000 grants awarded each year Eligibility requirements: Undergraduate student with a cumulative GPA of 3.75 or higher. This cannot be rounded up, so GPAs of 3.74 or below will not be considered Must have applied to or have been accepted into an accredited study abroad program before the session deadline You are not a sitting Phi Kappa Phi board member, divisional vice president, member of the Study Abroad Award committee or Society employee Deadline: TBA Tortuga Study Abroad Scholarship Currently open for Spring 2023 programs $1000 & a travel backpack awarded Eligibility requirements: Be a U.S. citizen, permanent resident, or currently studying in the US on a student visa Full-time undergraduate student in good standing Must be applying or accepted into a program eligible for credit Deadline: November 15, 2022 Other Nationally Competitive Scholarships For information on the Fulbright and other scholarships and fellowships for programs abroad, please visit the Nationally Competitive Opportunities website with the Office of Undergraduate Research. Scholarship Portals The following links are to portals listing scholarships offered by many organizations. Institute of International Education Gateway to various scholarships based on merit, need, and major. MoneyGeek.com Various scholarships based on merit, applicant demographic information, destination, affiliated program, and/or subject of study. StudyAbroad.com Various scholarships based on merit, applicant demographic information, destination, affiliated program, and/or subject of study. Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships All students are encouraged to review the opportunities and resources below. Included are merit- and need-based scholarship opportunities. Affordable Colleges Online - Going Global - Scholarships and resources for students participating in learning abroad programs. Diversity Abroad Insight Into Diversity - Study Abroad Scholarship for Underrepresented Students Eligibility: U.S. Citizen, Be from an underrepreented group based on race, ethnicity, LGBTQ or Veteran status, or have a physical disability Must be applying to or accepted into a program 21+ days in length in a U.S. Department of State Level 1 or 2 location Application: Online application, transcript, faculty recommendation letter, program acceptance National Deadline: TBA Amount: TBA Diverse International Women of Color (DIWC) Scholarship Available to women of color who are currently enrolled as undergraduates in the United States Must have GPA of 2.7 or higher Must be accepted to a summer 2022 study abroad program (virtual program/international internship included) Study abroad program must start in May, June, July or August to be considered Deadline: May 1, 2022 Amount: $500 scholarships for In-Person Summer 2022 programs National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering Affiliated Program Provider Scholarships American Institute for Foreign Study (AIFS) Council on International Education Exchange (CIEE) Cultural Experiences Abroad (CEA) International Studies Abroad (ISA) Knowledge Exchange Institute (KEI) School for Field Studies (SFS) School for International Training (SIT) Semester at Sea University Studies Abroad Consortium (USAC) Additional Scholarships FormSwift Scholarship Program Create a Business Plan Infographic for a chance at a $1000 scholarship award The Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) Program Offered by the U.S. Department of State. Must be enrolled in an Undergraduate or Graduate/Doctoral program at an accredited US university and must have completed at least one year (two semesters) of an undergraduate program Available languages: Azerbaijani, Hindi, Indonesian, Persian, Punjabi, Turkish & Urdu Beginning to advanced levels Arabic, Korean, Portuguese, & Russian Advanced beginning to advanced levels Chinese & Japanese Intermediate & Advanced levels Contact: CLS Program Contact Page David L. Boren Undergraduate Scholarships (NSEP) U.S. citizens at the time of the national application deadline A high school graduate, or have earned a GED At least 18 years of age or older at the time of the national application deadline Program in a country outside of Western Europe, Canada, Australia, or New Zealand Planning to study in a country of which they are not a citizen Matriculated for the duration of their Boren Awards-funded program in an undergraduate program located within the United States and accredited by a body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education Minimum one year federal service required. For more information about this requirement, click here. National Deadline: 2022 Boren Scholarships application will open in August 2021 and will be due on Wednesday, February 2, 2022 at 5 pm EST UH Campus Deadline: Two weeks prior to national deadline Contact: David L. Boren Undergraduate Scholarships Contact Page. Amount: 8-11 weeks: $8,000 for a summer program (STEM majors only) 12-24 weeks: $12,500 25-52 weeks: $25,000 Scholarships by Program Location Please note that several of the scholarships listed below are for specific programs. Asia Freeman-Asia Scholarship - *Please speak with your Learning Abroad Advisor before applying. For undergraduate students who demonstrate financial need and wish to study in East or Southeast Asia. China Chinese Government Scholarship - For any student who does not have citizenship in The People's Republic of China and wishes to study Mandarin Chinese. France The Alliance Francaise de Houston Léonardon Magne Scholarship - For more information about this scholarship for students of French language, please contact the Alliance Francaise of Houston or the UH French Department. The American Society of the French Academic Palms (ASFAP) - Offers two summer scholarships annually to be used in a French-speaking country to students whose interest in the French language and Francophone cultures has been identified by their French instructors. Their primary purpose is to provide students with the opportunity to become more proficient in the language and to understand and appreciate cultures found in the French-speaking world. Germany Multiple scholarship links - Various scholarships based on merit, need, and major. Italy Italian Cultural & Community Center (ICCC) Study Abroad Scholarship - for Houston area college students participating in study abroad programs in Italy. Program should be greater than 4 weeks and up to a full semester. Recipients chosen based on academic performance. Click here for instructions on how to apply. Japan Japan Student Services Organization (JASSO) - Various scholarships based on merit, need, and major. Multiple scholarship links - Various scholarships based on merit, need, and major. Norway Norway-America Association (NORAM) - This scholarship is for American graduate exchange students studying in Norway. United Kingdom Multiple scholarship links - Various scholarships based on merit, need, and major. British American Foundation of Texas (BAFTX) - Scholarships for Undergraduate and Graduate Students from Texas UH was awarded the Top Producer in the category of Greatest Growth by the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship for the 2018-2019 scholarship cycle, with a total number of student scholarships for the academic year at 35. E.W. Cullen Building, Suite 105 4302 University Dr. Houston, TX 77204-2039 learningabroad@uh.edu (713) 743-9167 Stay on Track with your Learning Abroad Application Process Programs Scholarships Student Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Events & Outreach Global Guides Passport for Coogs Parent Resources Health & Safety Contact Us ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies