News & Events - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land News News & Events DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. KEEPING YOU INFORMED. The University of Houston at Sugar Land is as vibrant and dynamic as the region in which it resides. Learn more about our student successes, unique programs and Tier One faculty. Latest News News Archive ‘Considerate and Accommodating’ Profs Credited for First-Gen’s Successful Road to Graduation First-generation college students frequently have a more challenging experience acclimating to college than students whose parents have college degrees, but a University of Houston Class of 2022 graduate says his professors made the process easier. “My professors were all very considerate and accommodating,” said UH student Yomi Sowunmi. Summer Camps at UH at Sugar Land Offer Fun & Education in STEM, Biotech Fields The University of Houston at Sugar Land is offering three summer camps for students in grades 3-12 designed to develop the next generation of coders, digital storytellers, game designers and molecular biologists. “We've been virtual for two years due to the pandemic,” said Bulent Dogan, clinical assistant professor in the UH College of Education. “We are very excited about coming back in person, but we still will offer a virtual camp for parents interested in that option.” Nursing Student Credits Parents, UHin4 in Reaching Graduation Goal The graduation celebration for Maria Espinoza will be a special one that acknowledges her accomplishment and the sacrifices made by her family to help her reach her college dreams. Espinoza, a first-generation student, will be graduating from the UH College of Nursing. She says her parents had little education and worked several jobs to ensure their children had academic opportunities that put them on the road to a better life. Top Nurses in Houston Includes UH College of Nursing Professor Shainy Varghese, associate professor and nurse practitioner in the University of Houston College of Nursing, has been selected one of the Top 150 Nurses for this year’s Houston Chronicle Salute to Nurses. The annual recognition occurs during National Nurses Week, May 6-12th, and honors nurses who have made a tangible, positive impact in the nursing community. Students at UH at Sugar Land Show Their Cougar Pride Four UH students at the Sugar Land Instructional Site took home cash prizes for showing their Cougar pride. The event was part of the Cougar Proud Competition that asked students attending classes at UH at Sugar Land to explain in a 60 second video why they were Cougar Proud. The 17 videos submitted did not disappoint. Answers ranged from ease of commute and access to instructors, to program selection and career advice. STEM Designation for Supply Chain Program Beginning fall 2022 the University of Houston Supply Chain & Logistics Technology Degree Plan will join an elite group of supply chain programs in Texas that are STEM related as determined by the U.S. Department of Education’s Classification of Instructional Program , U.S. Department of Homeland Security STEM Designated Program List, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. The Newsletter of UH at Sugar Land Your source for news, features and events Read the Newsletter › Sign Up to Receive › OTHER NEWS RESOURCES UH Today > UH Today is an official University of Houston communication for faculty and staff. UH Today, which includes a website and a daily email digest, reports on important human resources and University policy issues, provides institutional and employee features and covers awards, appointments and events information, as well as other items of interest to the UH campus. UH Magazine > The University of Houston Magazine is published by the Division of University Marketing, Communication and Media Relations. The Cougar > The Cougar is the official student-run publication and news organization at the University of Houston. UH Alert > UH ALERT is the official emergency notification system for the University and provides prompt notification to students, faculty and staff in the event of a condition which may threaten the health or safety of those on campus. To ensure you receive these notifications, students, staff and faculty must update their emergency contact information. Need Help? The University of Houston at Sugar Land is located at the intersection of US-59 south and University Boulevard, just northeast of the Brazos River, one exit south of Sweetwater/First Colony Boulevard. We offer large state-of-the-art classrooms, computer and multimedia laboratories, as well as a campus library and bookstore. Explore our full list of campus services and student resources below. CAMPUS INFORMATION Building Hours Parking Services Transportation Services Directions to Campus Library Bookstore Get a Snack INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Contact IT Service Desk Connect to WiFi Learn about Computing Services Computer Labs MEDIA RELATIONS Emergency Notifications Momentum Newsletter The Cougar UH Today UH Magazine OTHER Contact Security Request a Security Escort 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies