Strategic Plan - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Strategic Planning We are at the beginning of UH at Katy...We share the expectation of our region that this strong foundation will support our plans and shape future ambitions. Download a printable PDF of our Strategic Plan for a full overview >>> A Message From Provost Paula Myrick Short It is my pleasure to share with you the Strategic Plan for the University of Houston at Katy. The opening of the doors to the Katy Academic Building marked the culmination of much work from a dedicated group of people. Their data-driven and community-informed research and analysis resulted in meaningful plans that matched the needs of the Katy community. The result is this ambitious plan that starts at the ground level, but extends beyond a new building. This plan rolls out a blueprint for success for this growing region and beyond. Thank you to all those involved in creation of this strategy. Paula Myrick Short Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, University of Houston System Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, University of Houston A Message From Associate Vice President Jay Neal The charge for our strategic planning committee was to create the blueprint for higher education opportunities in our region. With the support and input of state and local community, industry and education leaders we began crafting a strategy that not only looked like Katy, but impacted Katy and beyond. Our efforts spanned many months and required flexibility and patience as we accommodated honest comments, facts and data, feedback, and Covid-19. I am extraordinarily proud of what we have accomplished. We have called this plan Foundations. We are at the beginning of UH at Katy. New building. New programs. New relationships. We are starting from the ground up, building student success, growth, identity and partnerships. We share the expectation of our region that this strong foundation will support our plans and shape future ambitions. Jay Neal Associate Vice President, Academic Affairs and Chief Operating Officer, University of Houston at Katy Steering Committee Jay Neal, Associate Vice President Academic Affairs, Chief Operating Officer, UH at Katy Richard Phillips, Community Outreach and Partnerships, UH at Katy Beth Johnson, Executive Director, Public Relations & Community Partnerships, UH at Katy Kathryn Tart, Dean, UH College of Nursing Dan Maxwell, UH Associate Vice President, Student Affairs Jagannatha (J.R.) Rao, Associate Professor, UH Cullen College of Engineering The Honorable Bill Callegari, Former Texas State Representative Marisa Ramirez, Senior Director, University Communication, UH at Katy Joel Chavali, UH Cullen College of Engineering Student Judy Korb, Higher Education Facilitator Defining Statement The University of Houston at Katy, a UH instructional site, supports the mission of the University of Houston and the shared vision of the region by committing its academic scholarship and civic leadership to create thoughtful, skilled leaders, and making local and global impact. Key Priorities of the University of Houston at Katy Key Priority: Student Success Priority Overview > Student Success Initiatives Priority Overview Key Priority: Growth Priority Overview > Growth Initiatives Priority Overview Key Priority: Partnerships Priority Overview > Partnerships Initiatives Priority Overivew Key Priority: Identity Priority Overview > Identity Initiatives Priority Overview This ambitious plan starts at the ground level, but extends beyond a new building. It is a blueprint for success for this growing region and beyond. Learn about the history of our plan. The UH at Katy Strategic Planning Process » 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies