Campus and Academic Services at Katy - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Campus and Academic Services DIVERSE. INNOVATIVE. VISIONARY. WE ARE HERE FOR YOU. The University of Houston at Katy provides a wide variety of services designed to support your daily success. The instructional site is located in state-of-the-art facilities near I-10 and the Grand Parkway. Map of the Campus > Submit a Room Request > Campus Security > HOURS OF OPERATION Summer Intersession Hours May 16 - June 5 MON-FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT-SUN CLOSED The University is closed May 30, 2022 for Memorial Day. Regular Summer Session Hours June 6 - August 14 MON-THU 7:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.† FRI 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. SAT 7:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. SUN CLOSED The University is closed July 4, 2022 for Independence Day. † No entry after 9 p.m. Security will be on-site till class time ends and occupants have vacated. Virtual Library Faculty, staff and students have access to the Virtual Library located on the 1st floor. The Virtual Library provides electronic library resources and services that supports both the University of Houston and the University of Houston-Victoria classes. Services include online databases, electronic books, journals and internet resources. Books can be delivered to the Katy location when students use the online catalogs. A librarian provides assistance with electronic resources and research help to students and faculty. Information Technology Faculty, staff and students have access to a variety of IT services at the University of Houston at Katy, including videoconferencing, computer and other resources. Connect to WiFi > Printing Services > 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies