UH Arts - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Arts Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Arts UH Arts Initiative Tickets Colleges Schools Centers & Programs Public Art UH Home UH Arts UH Arts UH Arts Initiative Launched by University of Houston President Renu Khator in 2009, the UH Arts Initiative focuses on the role of the arts as a catalyst for innovation and excellence. The UH Arts initiative strives to: make UH a vital destination for the study, practice and presentation of the arts; contribute significantly to Houston’s cultural vitality; and advance the creative process as a portal to innovation and problem solving across the academy, thereby integrating the arts into every student’s experience at UH. The initiative encompasses music, visual arts, literary arts, dance, theater, and design programs in the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts, College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, and the Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture. TOGETHER, WE RISE TOGETHER, WE SOAR TICKETS PROGRAMS PUBLIC ART 3Colleges within UH Arts Initiative 2,200+students enrolled 27undergraduate and graduate degree programs Colleges Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design The College of Architecture and Design offers students a platform of integrated disciplines—Architecture, Interior Architecture, and Industrial Design. Faculty and students work together in a studio-centric curriculum, supported by a digital fabrication facility. Open studios seamlessly incorporate coursework into project based learning through material investigations and applied research. Undergraduate Programs | Graduate Programs | Special Programs Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Led by Provost Paula Myrick Short, the Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts was established in 2015 to harness the power of the performing and visual arts entities to ultimately impact our world. The award-winning, internationally-distinguished faculty provides quality instruction to student artists from more than thirty programs of study. Schools School of Art The School of Art offers an atelier environment found in many private art schools with access to the vast resources of a premier research institution. With internationally recognized faculty and alumni, innovative programs, and exceptional resources, the school provides unique and dynamic opportunities for graduate and undergraduate study in art, design, and art history. Undergraduate Programs | Graduate Programs Moores School of Music The Moores School of Music boasts an extraordinary faculty of internationally recognized artist/teachers, composers, music educators, and musicologists and theorists. The school offers a variety of strong programs leading to the Bachelor and Master of Music degrees, as well as the Doctor of Musical Arts and a non-degree postbaccalaureate Certificate in Music Performance. Undergraduate Programs | Graduate Programs | Tickets School of Theatre & Dance The School of Theatre & Dance produces plays, dance concerts, studio productions, a new play festival, and school shows through the Theatre for Young Audiences program. The school offers bachelor’s and master’s degrees in theater and teacher certifications in dance. Its graduate program offers a Master of Arts in Theatre and a Master of Fine Arts in Theatre with specializations in Acting, Design & Technology, and Costume Technology. Undergraduate Programs | Graduate Programs | Dance Program | Tickets Centers & Programs Blaffer Art Museum As the gateway between UH and the City of Houston, Blaffer Art Museum is a catalyst for creative innovation, experimentation, and scholarship. Its exhibitions and programs are free and open to the public, create community through dialogue and participation, and inspire an appreciation for the visual arts. Events | Current Exhibitions Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts The Mitchell Center for the Arts is an alliance among five units at UH and cultivates interdisciplinary collaboration in the performing, visual, and literary arts. The center offers public events, residencies, and courses that fuse artistic disciplines, ignite dialogue, and present new ways of experiencing the arts. Programs | Events Arts Leadership Program The Arts Leadership Program takes an entrepreneurial approach to preparing creative professionals to launch, administer and sustain arts organizations of all sizes. The program offers advanced study in the management and promotion of arts organizations across the arts disciplines. Graduate Programs Creative Writing Program Through workshops, independent studies, and literature courses, CLASS faculty work with students to challenge their understanding of themselves as writers and to deepen and critically reflect on the aesthetic, ethical, and political assumptions behind their writing. Graduate Programs Public Art of the University of Houston System seeks to enrich the cultural and intellectual life on our campuses by building and maintaining a distinguished collection of artworks by acclaimed local and international artists. With deep roots in the advancement of knowledge, our collection is an epicenter where diverse communities and cutting-edge art converge. The collection continues to grow through commissions, temporary installations, acquisitions, gifts and cross-disciplinary education and outreach programming. Learn more about the public art collection and programming >> News ‘Little Shop of Horrors’ Coming to UH Posted on Tuesday May 17, 2022 By None — The Kathrine G. McGovern College of Arts is proud to present “Little Shop of Horrors” - the college’s first ever full-scale musical production. A classic Broadway title originally adapted from the 1960 film, “Little Shop” marks the first collaborative production by students and faculty from Moores School of Music and the School of Theatre & Dance. Performance Series to Raise COVID-19 Vaccine Awareness Through the Arts Posted on Tuesday May 03, 2022 By Chris Stipes — In collaboration with Houston Methodist Hospital, the University of Houston Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts presents a free event performance series funded by the CDC Foundation that focuses on raising COVID-19 vaccine awareness through the arts in immunization hesitant Houston communities. UH Blaffer Art Museum Showcases Work by Celebrated Houston Photographer Pam Francis Posted on Wednesday April 20, 2022 By Chris Stipes — The Blaffer Art Museum at the University of Houston is presenting the first museum survey exhibition of distinguished Houston-born artist and photographer Pam Francis (1954-2020). “Pam Francis: Photographs” is on view through April 26 in the Joanne Guest Wilson Gallery of the Museum. UH Associate Professor Awarded Guggenheim Fellowship for Photography Posted on Monday April 18, 2022 By Bryan Luhn — Keliy Anderson-Staley, associate professor of photography and digital media at UH, has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship— one of 180 fellows chosen from nearly 2,500 applicants. Her photographic work has been featured at top venues and museums across the country. Tolliver Selected as National Humanities Center Fellow Posted on Wednesday April 06, 2022 By None — Cedric R. Tolliver, UH associate professor of English, has been selected as a National Humanities Center Fellow. He will work to complete his manuscript, which addresses a fundamental tension at the heart of racial integration in the U.S. over the last 70 years. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Blaffer Art Museum Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts Creative Writing Program Public Art ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies