Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH at Sugar Land Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Sugar Land About Us Strategic Planning Visit Us Directions to Campus Diversity Initiative Public Art at Sugar Land The History of the University of Houston at Sugar Land Students Academic Advising at Sugar Land Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Information Technology Printing Services Room Reservations Request a Campus Tour Degree Programs Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Academic Advising at Sugar Land Faculty & Staff Staff Directory Information Technology Room Reservations News & Events UH at Sugar Land News Archive Momentum Newsletter Campus Services Bookstore Campus Security Dining & Vending Services Library Parking Information Room Reservations Shuttle Services at Sugar Land Partnerships Recruiters UH Home UH at Sugar Land News 2022 News May News ITECH STEM Camps UH at Sugar Land Diversity Strategic Planning Partnerships Technology Building About Us Students Faculty & Staff Visitors Campus Services Degrees News Archived News Stories Momentum Newsletter Digital Signage Request Summer Camps at UH at Sugar Land Offer Fun & Education in STEM, Biotech Fields By Dennis Spellman The University of Houston at Sugar Land is offering three summer camps for students in grades 3-12 designed to develop the next generation of coders, digital storytellers, game designers and molecular biologists. “We've been virtual for two years due to the pandemic,” said Bulent Dogan, clinical assistant professor in the UH College of Education. “We are very excited about coming back in person, but we still will offer a virtual camp for parents interested in that option.” There is a $350 fee for each camp. Discounts are available for UH employees, and scholarships are available for students with financial needs. Elementary School ITECH-STEM JUNE 6-10 | 9 a.m. – 3 p.m. | Students entering grades 3-6 Learn More | Download Flyer | Register Elementary school students will learn coding, 3D modeling and printing, game design, digital storytelling, video production and STEM. “We believe in students’ abilities, and that we should educate them early on,” Dogan said. During the camps, undergraduate and graduate students will be teachers and role models for the elementary students. “We provide a safe environment where students learn and have fun,” he said. It is the 6th year UH has held these camps. “We've created our customized curriculum for kids based on our experience,” Dogan said. Middle School and High School Girls Coding Academy June 13-17 | 9 a.m. – 1 p.m. | Students entering grades 6-8 June 13-17 | 12:30 – 4:30 p.m. | Students entering grades 9-12 Learn More | Download Flyer | Register The Girls Coding Academy will teach computer science, coding, game design, web development, Microbat programming, Python programming language and cyber security. This camp is sponsored by Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) Data Science Institute at the University of Houston. “We'll invite female Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) engineers who'll provide the latest information in the coding industry,” Dogan said. “Some of these relationships turn out to be an internship for our high school students.” Please note that while girls are encouraged to attend this program, the academy also is open to boys. High School Biotechnology Academy June 27 to July 1 | 9 a.m. – 2 p.m. | Students entering grades 9-12 Learn More | Register In collaboration with the UH College of Education, the UH STEM Center, and Cougar Initiative To Engage (CITE) camp offerings expand with a biotechnology academy for high school students. “Originally, this type of research was only available to post-doctoral students, but we've convinced our professors to open their research to the public,” he said. “Students will learn about artificial intelligence, coding and molecular biology fundamentals. We'll look at delivering drugs and medicine to proteins.” UH hopes to inspire the next generation of molecular biologists. “Students could someday be working with biotechnology firms, developing vaccines or finding a cure for cancer. It's a developing field, and I think it's time to open this type of research to younger kids,” Dogan said. 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 832-842-2900 Academic Calendar Bookstore Careers Opportunities Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Social Media Sexual Misconduct Reporting & Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System University Branch Library ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies