Partnerships - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Partnerships Partnerships Community. Diversity. Connection. Explore ways to partner with UH at Katy, an instructional site of the University of Houston. Innovation opportunities Cooperative agreements Workforce development programs/internships Scholarship/funding opportunities UH at Katy features programs from the UH Colleges of Nursing and Engineering. Strategic Planning The University of Houston has created the blueprints for higher education opportunities in the Katy region. We invite you to review Foundations: A 2021-2025 Strategic Plan for the University of Houston at Katy. Learn more. Contact us: Join the University of Houston at Katy to fuel the ambition and drive of our Greater Katy region. Richard Phillips, Associate Vice Provost Outreach & Community Engagement Email: dickphillips@uh.edu Phone: 832-842-2975 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies