Skip to main content Restrict my search to University of Houston at Katy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston at Katy About Us History of UH of Katy Strategic Plan Programs Engineering UH/HCC Engineering Academy Nursing News & Events UH at Katy News Archive In Brief Newsletter Campus & Academic Services Parking Campus Security Student Affairs & Enrollment Services Room Reservations Printing Services Vending Services Partnerships UH Home University of Houston at Katy Campus and Academic Services Printing Services University of Houston at Katy About Us News & Events Strategic Planning Campus and Academic Services Room Request Printing Services Campus Security Vending Services Reservations Printing Services Black and white printing services are available in the Virtual Library, room 123, and the Student Lounge, room 312. Additionally you can print wirelessly from personal laptops with the UniPrint software installed. Instructions for installing the software are below. Color printing is available in only the Virtual Library at this time. Please note that you must be connected to the "UHSecure" Wi-Fi service set identifier (SSID) or connected via an ethernet cable on campus before you submit your print job. If you are on the public "UHWireless" or any other Wi-Fi network, the print job will not be submitted. If you have any questions or need assistance, contact us at KatyTech@uh.edu or 832-842-2311. Print Job Pickup Locations The Print Release Stations are located: Virtual Library - KAB1 Room 123 Black & white printing (KT-BW) Color printing (KT-Color) Student Lounge - KAB1 Room 312 Black & white printing (KT-BW) Instructions Select your Operating System (OS) below and follow the steps below to send a print job to any UH at Katy Print Release Station. Windows Operating Systems Instructions Mac Operating System Instructions 1. Download file Download the KT-BW_for_Lte.exe file from any browser (this example is using Chrome browser). Save it to your computer. Open and run the KT-BW_for_Lte.exe file. 2. Run the installation file If you see a “Windows protected your PC” dialogue box: Select “More info” Select “Run anyway” 3. Install the printer client package Select “Install” to begin printer client installation. Select “Finish” to finish and exit the printer client installation. 4. Print document From the program you wish to print (this example is using Microsoft Word), select “File” > “Print”. Select the “KT-BWRELQUEUE on UNIPRINT” printer. Select “Print” to send your print job to the Print Release Station . Proceed to any UH at Katy Print Release Station and follow the printing instructions listed there. 1. Download file Download the Popup.dmg file to your Mac OS device from any browser (this example is using Safari browser), and save it to your computer. Open the folder of the download and run/double-click the Popup.dmg file. Once the installer loads, click “Continue” twice. 2. Run the installation file Click “Install” When prompted for password, type in your password for your local computer account and select “Install Software”. Then click “Continue”. After installation is successful, click “close” 3. Open system preferences Open System Preferences and click on “Printers & Scanners”. 4. Add printer Click on the “+” to add printer. Right click (ctrl + Click OR tap with two fingers) next to the “Windows” icon and select “Customize Toolbar”. Drag the “Advanced” icon and place it next to the “Windows” icon. Press “Done” afterwards. Click on “Advanced”, once it loads fill out the following fields: Type Select “Pharos Printer Server” from the drop down menu. Device Select “Another Device” from the drop down menu. URL Type “popup://uniprint.e.uh.edu/KT-BWRELQUEUE” Name Type any name in this field. In this example we will use “UH AT KATY PRINTER” Location Leave this field blank. Use Select “Generic PostScript Printer” from the drop down menu. Click “Add”. 5. Print document From the program you wish to print, select “File” > “Print”. Select the printer name you added in the previous step. Then, proceed to any UH at Katy Print Release Station and follow printing instructions listed there. 22400 Grand Circle Blvd. Katy, Texas 77449 832-842-5289 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Office of the President Parking Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies