Calendar - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home UH Calendar Calendar Other Calendars Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 Month Week Day Filter Events Go! Submit an Event Fitness Connect Community Thursday, May 12, 2022 10:00 am - 10:30 am Talk about wellness topics and share your successes and challenges! Monthly sessions, featuring presentations by BCBSTX wellness consultants, can help you get fit and stay healthy. Each month, you’ll have the opportunity to connect with other participants and share your experiences. The 15-minute sessions will be held at 10 a.m. CT the second Tuesday of the month starting January 11 and will run through December 13, 2022.participate by typing in your questions, or simply observe the online presentation and Q & A dialogue. If you need ASL interpreting for any of these sessions, please contact Sossity Fair at Sossity_Fair@bcbstx.com at least seven days prior to the session for assistance. For more information and to register, click HERE. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies