Skip to content UH Press University of Hawai'i Press Books browse by new | forthcoming Journals browse by subject | title Login Search by Title, Author, Publisher, ISBN, or ISSN × VIEW CART Primary Menu Browse Titles On Sale Latest Catalogs New Releases Forthcoming Books KLEAR Textbooks In Korean Language Books in Series Publishing Partners Journals A-Z Journals by Subject Learn More Our History Our Mission Our Staff What We Publish Desk and Exam Copy Policy Hawai‘i Bookstores Employment Opportunities News and Events Contact Us Pay Invoice Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals: Subscriptions Sales and Distribution Rights & Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Press Policies Email the Press Partner With Us Join our Distribution Write a Review Support the Press Shop Local East West Export Books Contact Us Join Our List View Cart Home / Book / Developing Zeami: The Noh Actor's Attunement in Practice Developing Zeami: The Noh Actor's Attunement in Practice by Shelley Fenno Quinn Format Choose an optionPaperbackClear Invoice Number* Memo Developing Zeami: The Noh Actor's Attunement in Practice quantity Add to cart Paperback: $35.00 ISBN-13: 9780824829681 Published: July 2005 Add to Cart Additional Information University of Hawaii Press 496 pages SHARE: About the Book The great noh actor, theorist, and playwright Zeami Motokiyo (ca. 1363-1443) is one of the major figures of world drama. His critical treatises have attracted international attention ever since their publication in the early 1900s. His corpus of work and ideas continues to offer a wealth of insights on issues ranging from the nature of dramatic illusion and audience interest to tactics for composing successful plays to issues of somaticity and bodily training. Shelley Fenno Quinn’s impressive interpretive examination of Zeami’s treatises addresses all of these areas as it outlines the development of the playwright’s ideas on how best to cultivate attunement between performer and audience. Quinn begins by tracing Zeami’s transformation of the largely mimetic stage art of his father’s troupe into a theater of poiesis in which the playwright and actors aim for performances wherein dance and chant are re-keyed to the evocative power of literary memory. Synthesizing this remembered language of stories, poems, phrases, and their prosodies and associated auras with the flow of dance and chant led to the creation of a dramatic prototype that engaged and depended on the audience as never before. Later chapters examine a performance configuration created by Zeami (the nikyoku santai) as articulated in his mature theories on the training of the performer. Drawing on possible reference points from Buddhist and Daoist thought, the author argues that Zeami came to treat the nikyoku santai as a set of guidelines for bracketing the subjectivity of the novice actor, thereby allowing the actor to reach a certain skill level or threshold from which his freedom as an artist might begin. About the Author(s) Shelley Fenno Quinn, Author Supporting Resources Our Catalog Browse Archive Quicklinks Browse UHP Home Books Home Journals Home New Releases Forthcoming On Sale More Information Our History Our Mission Our Staff What We Publish News & Events Contact Us Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals Subscriptions Sales & Distribution EWEB Rights & Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Email The Press Donate University of Hawai'i Press 2840 Kolowalu Street | Honolulu, HI 96822 Phone: 1-808-956-8255 | Fax: 1-800-650-7811 Email: uhpbooks@hawaii.edu © 2018 University of Hawai'i Press Home About Us Books Journals Jobs FAQ Site Map If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Contact Us An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy Copyright © 2019 University of Hawai'i MENU My Account View Cart On Sale Browse Titles Latest Catalogs New Releases Forthcoming Books Books in Series Publishing Partners Journals Journals A-Z Learn More Our History Our Mission What We Publish Desk and Exam Copy Policy Hawai‘i Bookstores Online Resources Press Policies Employment Opportunities News and Events Contact Us Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals: Subscriptions Rights and Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Press Policies Email the Press Partner With Us Join our Distribution Write a Review Shop Local East West Export Books Contact Us Join Our List We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings. Accept Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Cookie Policy Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview University of Hawaiʻi Press Privacy Policy WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? University of Hawaiʻi Press collects the information that you provide when you register on our site, place an order, subscribe to our newsletter, or fill out a form. When ordering or registering on our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: name, e-mail address, mailing 0address, phone number or credit card information. You may, however, visit our site anonymously. Website log files collect information on all requests for pages and files on this website's web servers. Log files do not capture personal information but do capture the user's IP address, which is automatically recognized by our web servers. This information is used to ensure our website is operating properly, to uncover or investigate any errors, and is deleted within 72 hours. University of Hawaiʻi Press will make no attempt to track or identify individual users, except where there is a reasonable suspicion that unauthorized access to systems is being attempted. In the case of all users, we reserve the right to attempt to identify and track any individual who is reasonably suspected of trying to gain unauthorized access to computer systems or resources operating as part of our web services. As a condition of use of this site, all users must give permission for University of Hawaiʻi Press to use its access logs to attempt to track users who are reasonably suspected of gaining, or attempting to gain, unauthorized access. WHAT DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION FOR? Any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways: To process transactions Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other company for any reason whatsoever, without your consent, other than for the express purpose of delivering the purchased product or service requested. Order information will be retained for six months to allow us to research if there is a problem with an order. If you wish to receive a copy of this data or request its deletion prior to six months contact Cindy Yen at cyen@hawaii.edu. To administer a contest, promotion, survey or other site feature Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other company for any reason whatsoever, without your consent, other than for the express purpose of delivering the service requested. Your information will only be kept until the survey, contest, or other feature ends. If you wish to receive a copy of this data or request its deletion prior completion, contact uhpbooks@hawaii.edu. To send periodic emails The email address you provide for order processing, may be used to send you information and updates pertaining to your order, in addition to receiving occasional company news, updates, related product or service information, etc. Note: We keep your email information on file if you opt into our email newsletter. If at any time you would like to unsubscribe from receiving future emails, we include detailed unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of each email. To send catalogs and other marketing material The physical address you provide by filling out our contact form and requesting a catalog or joining our physical mailing list may be used to send you information and updates on the Press. We keep your address information on file if you opt into receiving our catalogs. You may opt out of this at any time by contacting uhpbooks@hawaii.edu. HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION? We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or enter, submit, or access your personal information. We offer the use of a secure server. All supplied sensitive/credit information is transmitted via Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology and then encrypted into our payment gateway providers database only to be accessible by those authorized with special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential. After a transaction, your private information (credit cards, social security numbers, financials, etc.) will not be stored on our servers. Some services on this website require us to collect personal information from you. To comply with Data Protection Regulations, we have a duty to tell you how we store the information we collect and how it is used. Any information you do submit will be stored securely and will never be passed on or sold to any third party. You should be aware, however, that access to web pages will generally create log entries in the systems of your ISP or network service provider. These entities may be in a position to identify the client computer equipment used to access a page. Such monitoring would be done by the provider of network services and is beyond the responsibility or control of University of Hawaiʻi Press. DO WE USE COOKIES? Yes. Cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computer’s hard drive through your web browser (if you click to allow cookies to be set) that enables the sites or service providers systems to recognize your browser and capture and remember certain information. We use cookies to help us remember and process the items in your shopping cart. You can see a full list of the cookies we set on our cookie policy page. These cookies are only set once you’ve opted in through our cookie consent widget. DO WE DISCLOSE ANY INFORMATION TO OUTSIDE PARTIES? We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer your personally identifiable information to third parties other than to those trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your personally identifiable information to those persons to whom disclosure is required to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others’ rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. CALIFORNIA ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT COMPLIANCE Because we value your privacy we have taken the necessary precautions to be in compliance with the California Online Privacy Protection Act. We therefore will not distribute your personal information to outside parties without your consent. CHILDRENS ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT COMPLIANCE We are in compliance with the requirements of COPPA (Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act), we do not collect any information from anyone under 13 years of age. Our website, products and services are all directed to people who are at least 13 years old or older. ONLINE PRIVACY POLICY ONLY This online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline. YOUR CONSENT By using our site, you consent to our web site privacy policy. CHANGES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page, and update the Privacy Policy modification date. This policy is effective as of May 25th, 2018. CONTACTING US If there are any questions regarding this privacy policy you may contact us using the information below. University of Hawaiʻi Press 2840 Kolowalu Street Honolulu, HI 96822 USA uhpbooks@hawaii.edu Ph (808) 956-8255, Toll-free: 1-(888)-UH-PRESS Fax (800) 650-7811 Cookie Policy More information about our Cookie Policy Enable All Save Changes