Skip to content UH Press University of Hawai'i Press Books browse by new | forthcoming Journals browse by subject | title Login Search by Title, Author, Publisher, ISBN, or ISSN × VIEW CART Primary Menu Browse Titles On Sale Latest Catalogs New Releases Forthcoming Books KLEAR Textbooks In Korean Language Books in Series Publishing Partners Journals A-Z Journals by Subject Learn More Our History Our Mission Our Staff What We Publish Desk and Exam Copy Policy Hawai‘i Bookstores Employment Opportunities News and Events Contact Us Pay Invoice Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals: Subscriptions Sales and Distribution Rights & Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Press Policies Email the Press Partner With Us Join our Distribution Write a Review Support the Press Shop Local East West Export Books Contact Us Join Our List View Cart Home / Book / Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan Janine Anderson Sawada Format Choose an optionHardbackPaperbackClear Invoice Number* Memo Faith in Mount Fuji: The Rise of Independent Religion in Early Modern Japan quantity Add to cart Hardback: $68.00 ISBN-13: 9780824887889 Published: December 2021 Add to Cart Paperback: $28.00 ISBN-13: 9780824890469 Published: September 2022 Add To Wishlist Additional Information University of Hawaii Press 294 pages | 15 b&w, 5 color illustrations SHARE: About the Book Even a fleeting glimpse of Mount Fuji’s snow-capped peak emerging from the clouds in the distance evokes the reverence it has commanded in Japan from ancient times. Long considered sacred, during the medieval era the mountain evolved from a venue for solitary ascetics into a well-regulated pilgrimage site. With the onset of the Tokugawa period, the nature of devotion to Mount Fuji underwent a dramatic change. Working people from nearby Edo (now Tokyo) began climbing the mountain in increasing numbers and worshipping its deity on their own terms, leading to a widespread network of devotional associations known as Fujikō. In Faith in Mount Fuji Janine Sawada asserts that the rise of the Fuji movement epitomizes a broad transformation in popular religion that took place in early modern Japan. Drawing on existing practices and values, artisans and merchants generated new forms of religious life outside the confines of the sectarian establishment. Sawada highlights the importance of independent thinking in these grassroots phenomena, making a compelling case that the new Fuji devotees carved out enclaves for subtle opposition to the status quo within the restrictive parameters of the Tokugawa order. The founding members effectively reinterpreted materials such as pilgrimage maps, talismans, and prayer formulae, laying the groundwork for the articulation of a set of remarkable teachings by Jikigyō Miroku (1671–1733), an oil peddler who became one of the group’s leading ascetic practitioners. His writings fostered a vision of Mount Fuji as a compassionate parental deity who mandated a new world of economic justice and fairness in social and gender relations. The book concludes with a thought-provoking assessment of Jikigyō’s suicide on the mountain as an act of commitment to world salvation that drew on established ascetic practice even as it conveyed political dissent. Faith in Mount Fuji is a pioneering work that contains a wealth of in-depth analysis and original interpretation. It will open up new avenues of discussion among students of Japanese religions and intellectual history, and supply rich food for thought to readers interested in global perspectives on issues of religion and society, ritual culture, new religions, and asceticism. About the Author(s) Janine Anderson Sawada, AuthorJanine Anderson Sawada is professor of religious studies and East Asian studies at Brown University. Our Catalog Browse Archive Quicklinks Browse UHP Home Books Home Journals Home New Releases Forthcoming On Sale More Information Our History Our Mission Our Staff What We Publish News & Events Contact Us Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals Subscriptions Sales & Distribution EWEB Rights & Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Email The Press Donate University of Hawai'i Press 2840 Kolowalu Street | Honolulu, HI 96822 Phone: 1-808-956-8255 | Fax: 1-800-650-7811 Email: uhpbooks@hawaii.edu © 2018 University of Hawai'i Press Home About Us Books Journals Jobs FAQ Site Map If required, information contained on this website can be made available in an alternative format upon request. Contact Us An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution Use of this site implies consent with our Usage Policy Copyright © 2019 University of Hawai'i MENU My Account View Cart On Sale Browse Titles Latest Catalogs New Releases Forthcoming Books Books in Series Publishing Partners Journals Journals A-Z Learn More Our History Our Mission What We Publish Desk and Exam Copy Policy Hawai‘i Bookstores Online Resources Press Policies Employment Opportunities News and Events Contact Us Customer Service Author Guidelines Journals: Subscriptions Rights and Permissions Frequently Asked Questions Press Policies Email the Press Partner With Us Join our Distribution Write a Review Shop Local East West Export Books Contact Us Join Our List We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in settings. Accept Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Cookie Policy Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview University of Hawaiʻi Press Privacy Policy WHAT INFORMATION DO WE COLLECT? University of Hawaiʻi Press collects the information that you provide when you register on our site, place an order, subscribe to our newsletter, or fill out a form. When ordering or registering on our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: name, e-mail address, mailing 0address, phone number or credit card information. You may, however, visit our site anonymously. Website log files collect information on all requests for pages and files on this website's web servers. Log files do not capture personal information but do capture the user's IP address, which is automatically recognized by our web servers. This information is used to ensure our website is operating properly, to uncover or investigate any errors, and is deleted within 72 hours. University of Hawaiʻi Press will make no attempt to track or identify individual users, except where there is a reasonable suspicion that unauthorized access to systems is being attempted. In the case of all users, we reserve the right to attempt to identify and track any individual who is reasonably suspected of trying to gain unauthorized access to computer systems or resources operating as part of our web services. As a condition of use of this site, all users must give permission for University of Hawaiʻi Press to use its access logs to attempt to track users who are reasonably suspected of gaining, or attempting to gain, unauthorized access. WHAT DO WE USE YOUR INFORMATION FOR? Any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways: To process transactions Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other company for any reason whatsoever, without your consent, other than for the express purpose of delivering the purchased product or service requested. Order information will be retained for six months to allow us to research if there is a problem with an order. If you wish to receive a copy of this data or request its deletion prior to six months contact Cindy Yen at cyen@hawaii.edu. To administer a contest, promotion, survey or other site feature Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other company for any reason whatsoever, without your consent, other than for the express purpose of delivering the service requested. Your information will only be kept until the survey, contest, or other feature ends. If you wish to receive a copy of this data or request its deletion prior completion, contact uhpbooks@hawaii.edu. To send periodic emails The email address you provide for order processing, may be used to send you information and updates pertaining to your order, in addition to receiving occasional company news, updates, related product or service information, etc. Note: We keep your email information on file if you opt into our email newsletter. If at any time you would like to unsubscribe from receiving future emails, we include detailed unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of each email. To send catalogs and other marketing material The physical address you provide by filling out our contact form and requesting a catalog or joining our physical mailing list may be used to send you information and updates on the Press. We keep your address information on file if you opt into receiving our catalogs. You may opt out of this at any time by contacting uhpbooks@hawaii.edu. HOW DO WE PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION? We implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or enter, submit, or access your personal information. We offer the use of a secure server. All supplied sensitive/credit information is transmitted via Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology and then encrypted into our payment gateway providers database only to be accessible by those authorized with special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential. After a transaction, your private information (credit cards, social security numbers, financials, etc.) will not be stored on our servers. Some services on this website require us to collect personal information from you. To comply with Data Protection Regulations, we have a duty to tell you how we store the information we collect and how it is used. Any information you do submit will be stored securely and will never be passed on or sold to any third party. You should be aware, however, that access to web pages will generally create log entries in the systems of your ISP or network service provider. These entities may be in a position to identify the client computer equipment used to access a page. Such monitoring would be done by the provider of network services and is beyond the responsibility or control of University of Hawaiʻi Press. DO WE USE COOKIES? Yes. Cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computer’s hard drive through your web browser (if you click to allow cookies to be set) that enables the sites or service providers systems to recognize your browser and capture and remember certain information. We use cookies to help us remember and process the items in your shopping cart. You can see a full list of the cookies we set on our cookie policy page. These cookies are only set once you’ve opted in through our cookie consent widget. DO WE DISCLOSE ANY INFORMATION TO OUTSIDE PARTIES? We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer your personally identifiable information to third parties other than to those trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. We may also release your personally identifiable information to those persons to whom disclosure is required to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others’ rights, property, or safety. However, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. CALIFORNIA ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT COMPLIANCE Because we value your privacy we have taken the necessary precautions to be in compliance with the California Online Privacy Protection Act. We therefore will not distribute your personal information to outside parties without your consent. CHILDRENS ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT COMPLIANCE We are in compliance with the requirements of COPPA (Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act), we do not collect any information from anyone under 13 years of age. Our website, products and services are all directed to people who are at least 13 years old or older. ONLINE PRIVACY POLICY ONLY This online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline. YOUR CONSENT By using our site, you consent to our web site privacy policy. CHANGES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page, and update the Privacy Policy modification date. This policy is effective as of May 25th, 2018. CONTACTING US If there are any questions regarding this privacy policy you may contact us using the information below. University of Hawaiʻi Press 2840 Kolowalu Street Honolulu, HI 96822 USA uhpbooks@hawaii.edu Ph (808) 956-8255, Toll-free: 1-(888)-UH-PRESS Fax (800) 650-7811 Cookie Policy More information about our Cookie Policy Enable All Save Changes