Skip to content University Human Resources People: Our Priority MENUMENU About UHR About Staff Directory Directions Parking UHR Offices Information Services Benefits Compensation and Classification Learning & Talent Development Staff Relations Contact Us Chesapeake Bldg University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742 301-405-7575 uhrConnect@umd.edu Have a Question? Submit a Ticket Employment Verification Careers Search Job Openings Student Employment Parking Affirmative Action and EEO Veterans Accessibility Notice of Filing of Labor Condition Applications Employee Quick Links New Employees ARES Forms Holiday Calendar Policies Staff Awards Timesheet Benefits Insurance Dental Insurance Medical Insurance Prescription Benefits Vision Insurance Financial Flexible Spending Account Retirement Planning Saving for Retirement Tuition Remission Work-Life Balance Family Care Leave Additional Benefits HR Services Performance Development UHR Support Center Update Employee Information All HR Services Payroll Services Direct Deposit Form Earnings Statement Net Pay Calculator Payroll Online Service Center Pay Schedule HR Professional UHR Support Center Compliance PHR Transaction Calendar PHR User Support eTerp User Support Compensation Compensation Guidelines Position Titles Salary Structures HRIS PHR Reports Data Request Form Mailing Label Request 3D’s Request Tools and Resources Manager’s Toolkit Forms Policies Affiliates HR Communities HR Service Partners HR Service Representatives L&T Partners HR Systems ARES eTerp I-9 and E-Verify PHR Return to Campus UMD is focused on the well being of the entire community. The information below is provided to help keep ourselves […] Learn more Family Care Resources The University of Maryland is committed to supporting caregivers and families. This webpage is intended to serve as a one-stop […] Tuition Remission Take advantage of one of the many great benefits of employment at the University of Maryland! Retirement Planning Preparing to retire from the University of Maryland My Benefits Consultative services for employees on the variety of benefits programs available at UMD. Quick Links Contact Us Forms Holiday Calendar Login to Benefits Online Telework Events Special Carry Over of Annual Leave Coming Events 31 May 10:00 am - 12:00 pm In-Person NEO 01 Jun 12:00 pm - 01:30 pm Well at UMD 06 Jun 08:30 am - 03:30 pm Virtual NEO, Day 1 13 Jun 10:00 am - 12:00 pm In-Person NEO Latest Announcements November Learning Challenge Regardless of your industry, function, or role, whether you are in a formal leadership role not, in order to be […] Posted on November 11, 2021 October Learning Challenge Regardless of your industry, function, or role, whether you are in a formal leadership role not, in order to be […] Posted on October 22, 2021 September Challenge: Grow Your Executive Presence In a survey conducted by a leading technology research firm, executive presence was ranked #2 among the top 20 leadership […] Posted on September 17, 2021 August Challenge: Better Decisions – Better Outcomes Decision-making is a critical skill both inside and outside of work, and the decisions we make shape our lives. While […] Posted on August 10, 2021 Emergency Preparedness Smoke Free UMD Ethics, Integrity, and Compliance Reporting A Department in the Division of Administration 1100 Chesapeake Bldg, College Park, MD 20742, USA · 301.405.7575 Web Accessibility Privacy Policy Employment © 2022 - University Human Resources