Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Department of University Health Services Main Menu In this section WHO WE ARE SERVICES STUDENT WELLNESS IMMUNIZATIONS FOR PARENTS Home Services Vaccine Information Services Schedulean appointment You can schedule an appointment online through your Patient Portal. 20,000+COVID vaccinations administered UHS has been working tirelessly to help our OSU community get vaccinated. We've administered 8,572 vaccines as of March 10, 2021. COVID Vaccine Scheduling Information Visit the Patient Portal to see available vaccination appointment times. Booster doses are available by appointment only, Fridays from 8:30-11:30 a.m. Who Needs an Additional COVID-19 Vaccine? Currently, CDC is recommending an additional booster vaccine (4th dose) for: people over the age of 50 should receive an additional booster shot (4th dose) of Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine at least 4 months after their initial booster, people under the age of 50 with underlying medical conditions may receive an additional booster shot (4th dose) of Pfizer-BioNTech’s COVID-19 vaccine at least 4 months after their initial booster. Please consult with your primary care physician before scheduling an appointment. Who is eligible for a booster vaccine? If you received Pfizer-BioNTech for your primary series, people 12 years and older should receive a booster if it has been at least 5 months after receiving your primary series. If you received Moderna for your primary series, people 18 years and older should receive a booster if it has been at least 5 months after receiving your primary series. If you received Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen for your primary series, people 18 years and older should receive an mRNA booster if it has been at least 2 months after your primary series. For more information about booster recommendations, visit https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/booster-shot.html. Opportunities at Health Services Currently Eligible: Faculty, Staff, Students and Dependents within the university community This includes any active OSU faculty, staff or student who is affiliated with the OSU-Stillwater campus. This also includes spouses, domestic partners and dependents affiliated with the OSU-Stillwater campus. We will not be providing the vaccine to the 5-11 age group. Other Opportunites Can't make it to UHS? A number of local pharmacies offer the vaccine, as well. The CDC has a helpful VaccineFinder online and you can search your local area by visiting https://www.vaccines.gov/search/. For the purposes of regional availability outside of UHS, university community members are strongly encouraged to register with the state’s online platform. By registering, members can identify eligibility and also identify regional vaccine clinics outside of campus specific efforts. Current Status You may schedule your appointment online by logging into your Patient Portal. If you are scheduling an appointment for a dependent, follow the prompts on the portal. You may call 405-744-7665 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. if you have any questions or issues scheduling online. Steps for Scheduling at UHS If scheduling for a phase-eligible spouse or dependent, please create a separate appointment under your name. When prompted, fill in the appropriate field with their name. Log on to the UHS portal, http://okstateportal.pointnclick.com Select scheduling and choose “COVID-19 Vaccine” Complete the appointment screening information Schedule your appointment Arrive at your scheduled date and time Other Information Vaccine Given: Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine for ages 16 and up. Your follow-up appointment date and time will be identified before you leave the building. We will not be providing the vaccine to the 5-11 age group. Follow the link for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine fact sheet. Parking: Please park behind University Health Services and enter on the north side of the building. Overflow parking is located by Iba Hall (Lot 49W). Please reference the OSU Parking map to identify options. Forms: Visit our Covid vaccine forms to obtain paperwork in advance. The forms can be printed, filled out, and brought with you. We will have these forms available at the clinic, as well, but forms completed in advance will help move the process along. Wait Time: We will do our best to administer vaccine in an efficient manner. Please arrive at your designated time, so we can avoid traffic and egress issues. Recipients must wait 15 minutes after receiving the vaccine, so please plan for some wait time within the process. We appreciate your patience. Cost: There is no fee for receiving the vaccine. About the UHS Vaccine Pod University Health Services is serving as a vaccine distribution pod in partnership with the Payne County Health Department and receives allotment directly from the county. In an effort to prioritize that OSU affiliated faculty, staff, and students can receive vaccine on campus, the health services facility will offer online scheduling directly through their patient portal rather than through the state’s vaccine registration system. The university will follow the direction of the state and local health department in determining opportunities for distribution to additional groups within each phase, and vaccine availability is determined in week-to-week increments. Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©