Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Legal Affairs Office of General Counsel Subpoenas Legal Affairs Office of General Counsel Construction Delegations of Authority for UHS Institutions FERPA General Data Protection Regulation Governance Health Affairs Immigration Institutional Compliance and Ethics Intellectual Property, Trademark Litigation Outside Counsel Protection of Confidential Information Public Information Act Real Estate Resources and Policies Subpoenas Tax and Gifts Title IX Office of Contract Administration FAQs Contact Us Training Subpoenas General Information The University of Houston System Office of General Counsel is responsible for responding to subpoenas served on faculty members and staff employees in the course and scope of their employment with all components of the University of Houston System. Faculty and staff members, including professional staff such as physicians, who receive a subpoena related to their employment should date the stamp front of the Subpoena and forward it to the Office of General Counsel, 311 E Cullen immediately What is a subpoena? A subpoena is a legal document that may be issued in a criminal, civil (lawsuit) or administrative proceeding. Generally, however, subpoenas received by faculty members and staff employees are issued for civil proceedings. Most often, subpoenas are issued to require a component institution to produce documents. A subpoena may be served once a lawsuit is filed (or on special occasion before a lawsuit is filed) in order to require an individual to give testimony at a deposition, hearing or trial, or to give documents or other tangible things to one of the parties in the lawsuit. The subpoena must meet several specific requirements before it is legally enforceable. An attorney in the Office of General Counsel will review the subpoena to determine whether it is enforceable and, if not, take the necessary steps to inform the person who issued the subpoena or the court. An employee can be sanctioned by the court in which the case is pending for failing to respond to a subpoena within the timeframe set out in the document. Testifying pursuant to a subpoena If an employee receives a subpoena to give a deposition or to appear in court to testify, an attorney in the Office of General Counsel will meet with him or her to discuss the testimony. An attorney from the OGC or an Assistant Attorney General will accompany the employee to the proceeding. Providing documents pursuant to a subpoena If an employee receives a subpoena to provide documents, an attorney in the Office of General Counsel will review the documents to determine whether they are responsive to the subpoena and whether any of the information is confidential. Faculty and staff should never provide documents or information in response to a subpoena without first giving the information to the OGC to review. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies