Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Legal Affairs FAQs Legal Affairs Office of General Counsel Office of Contract Administration FAQs Contact Us Training Frequently Asked Questions of the Office of General Counsel What should I do if I am being sued and served with papers? Contact General Counsel Dona H. Cornell immediately. Phone 832-842-0949. What should I do if I suspect that there are issues which should be brought to the attention of the Office of the General Counsel? Employees should discuss the matter with their supervisor. If appropriate, the supervisor will contact the Office of General Counsel for legal advice and will follow the procedure detailed below. What do I include in a request for legal advice from the Office of General Counsel? As provided in SAM 01.D.01, while telephone requests may be necessary from time to time, most requests for legal services should be communicated by written memoranda to General Counsel Dona H. Cornell. All requests for legal services should include the following information: Date of request Name and title of person requesting advice or information Description of issues to be addressed or information sought Specific questions Deadlines for such advice or information Supporting documentation, if any. For more information, please visit: Requests for Services from the Office of the General Counsel What do I do if I receive a request that may be considered a request for information under the Texas Public Information Act? Contact General Counsel Dona H. Cornell immediately. Phone 832-842-0949. What do I do if I receive a subpoena? Contact General Counsel Dona H. Cornell immediately. Phone 832-842-0949. Where should I return my FERPA form? Contact the Office of University Records (713-743-1010). Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies