Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Board of Regents FAQ Board of Regents Board Members Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff FAQ's about the Board of Regents What is the Board of Regents? The Board of Regents is the governing body of the University of Houston System as authorized by the Texas Legislature according to Section 111.11 of the Texas Education Code. How are members of the board selected? Every two years, the Governor of the State of Texas, subject to Senate confirmation, appoints three new members to the Board of Regents. How many members serve on the board? The Board of Regents consists of nine members (chair, vice-chair, secretary), and six members. How long is the term of each board member? Each member serves a six-year term. How long is the term of each officer of the board? The officers of the board hold office for a term of one year from September 1 through August 31, or until his or her successor has been elected. No board member shall serve more than two consecutive terms as chair without the vote of six board members. What are some of the responsibilities of the Board of Regents? Responsibilities of the board included in Section 51.352 of the Texas Education Code: preserve institutional independence and to defend its right to manage its own affairs through its chosen administrators and employees; enhance the public image of each institution under its governance; interpret the community to the campus and the campus to the community; nurture each institution under its governance to the end that each institution achieves its full potential within its role and mission; insist on clarity of focus and mission of each institution under its governance; and provide the policy direction for each institution of higher education under its management and control. Additional responsibilities of the board are listed in the bylaws of the Board of Regents. Where is the Board of Regents Office Located? The staff of the Board of Regents Office is located at: 128 ECullen Building Houston, TX 77204-6001 Please note that only the board staff offices are at this location. Each regent has his/her own business office. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies