Office of the Treasurer - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Treasurer Submit Close Give to UH Search Office of the Treasurer Home Contacts Forms Organization Chart Documentation Investment Reports Investment Information Disclosure Investment Policies Debt Reports and Policies Continuing Disclosure Quick Links Budget Information Student Business Services Risk Management Independent Registered Municipal Advisor Certificate PDF SEC Disclosure Summary Public Funds Investment Act PDF Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Departmental Template - Credit Card Policy and Procedures DOCX Tools Tools - Homepage Section More Treasury Tools UH System Home Office of the Treasurer Page contents: Home Documentation Quick Links Treasury Tools Documentation Investment Reports Investment Information Disclosure Investment Policies Debt Reports and Policies Continuing Disclosure Quick Links Budget Information Student Business Services Risk Management Independent Registered Municipal Advisor Certificate PDF SEC Disclosure Summary Public Funds Investment Act PDF Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Departmental Template - Credit Card Policy and Procedures DOCX Treasury Tools Do you need to figure the exchange rate between the US dollar and other foreign currencies? Click here for the Universal Currency Converter. Endowment income is usually distributed in the first quarter of the new fiscal year. An accounts receivable is posted to the cost center prior to the actual distribution. Transporting deposits - Tamper resistant bags are required. Please contact the cashier's area of Student Financial Services if you need deposit bags. Please refer to MAPP 05.01.01 for more details. Information about Endowment establishment and maintenance - See SAM 03.F.02. Accepting credit cards - See SAM 03.A.06. For more Treasury Tools click here. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies