Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home About UH-Downtown About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria UHS Mission, Principles and Goals UHS Planning and Performance UHS Leadership UHS Branding Students University of Houston-Downtown The University of Houston-Downtown is a robust university in the country's fourth-largest city with more than 15,000 students and more than 60,000 alumni. The modern campus is located on the northern edge of Houston's central business district at the confluence of Buffalo and White Oak Bayous. Founded in 1974, UHD is the second largest, four-year university in Houston and is recognized nationally as a Hispanic-Serving Institution, Minority-Serving Institution and Military-Friendly School. Led by President Loren James Blanchard, UHD is one of four distinct universities in the University of Houston System. Its non-residential campus attracts students from throughout Greater Houston, and the University’s diverse student body reflects Houston's wealth of cultures, languages and nationalities. The University’s proximity to Downtown Houston provides opportunities for internships at major corporations and offers access to other resources including museums, art galleries and professional sport venues. UHD students pursue bachelor’s and master’s degrees in five colleges: the Marilyn Davies College of Business, Humanities & Social Sciences; Public Service; Sciences & Technology; and University College. More than 3,000 students graduate from UHD each year. Students at UHD enjoy outstanding faculty, small classes and undergraduate research opportunities. The National Science Foundation has recognized UHD’s Scholars Academy, an active learning community for students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. With the lowest tuition rate in the city and one of the lowest in Texas and the nation, UHD offers flexibility in scheduling classes including daytime, evening and weekend options. Students also can choose from face-to-face and online classes as well as hybrid classes that blend the two instruction options. The University also offers classes at UHD Northwest located at Lone Star College-University Park in Northwest Houston, and Lone Star College campuses in Cypress and Kingwood. UHD strives to be responsive to student needs. To that end, the University offers seamless transfer processes as well as dual enrollments program with its community college partners. Undergraduate Education Students come to UHD from a variety of backgrounds. Most work full- or part-time while pursuing their degrees and many are the first in their families to attend college. In addition, most UHD students transfer from community colleges or other higher education institutions. UHD offers baccalaureate degrees in 45 disciplines, including signature programs in accounting, finance, insurance and risk management, criminal justice, psychology, social work, safety management, interdisciplinary studies (general education and teaching), fine arts and data sciences. Recently, UHD introduced a Bachelor of Science in data science — the first of its kind in Texas. Undergraduate students make up 90 percent of the student population, with 94 percent of them coming from the Houston metropolitan area. Half of the UHD students attend part-time. The average age of a UHD undergraduate is 28. Graduate Education and Research UHD offers nine master’s degrees in Technical Communication, Non-Profit Management, Security Management, Criminal Justice, Data Analytics, Teacher Education with and without Teacher Certification, Rhetoric and Composition, Professional Accountancy, and the Master of Business Administration. The Marilyn Davies College of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. The majority of UHD’s graduate students are working professionals who pursue studies on a part-time basis. UHD is committed to undergraduates as well as graduate students participating in research opportunities. UHD's research expenditures were $2.17 million in fiscal year 2021. UHD Northwest Located on the grounds of Lone Star College University Park UHD Northwest offers 17 undergraduate and one graduate degree program. UHD Northwest serves the Cypress, Tomball, Spring/Klein, Katy, Waller and The Woodlands region. Fact Sheet Established: 1974 President: Loren James Blanchard Enrollment: 15,077 Faculty: 766 Staff: 636 Alumni: 60,120 Degree Programs: 45 (Undergraduate) 9 (Graduate) Annual Degrees Awarded: 3,498 Graduate Certificates: 366 Budget: $ 155 million (FY 2021) Tuition & Fees: $8,889 per year (undergraduate resident-average, 30 semester credit hours per academic year). Research Expenditures: $2.17 million (FY 2021 data) Library: More than 209,567 physical volumes, over 709,000 e-books/e-media volumes, and 77,600 subscriptions (print and electronic) Current Replacement Value: $1.304 billion Enrollment by Level Enrollment by Ethnicity Enrollment by Geographic Source Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies