Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home About About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria UHS Mission, Principles and Goals UHS Planning and Performance UHS Leadership UHS Branding Students University of Houston System As the region’s largest provider of comprehensive university services, from the baccalaureate to the doctorate, the University of Houston System plays an essential role in meeting the higher education needs of the Houston metropolitan area and Texas. The UH System serves more than 75,000 students, has an annual budget that exceeds $2.07 billion, and produces a $6 billion-plus economic impact on the Greater Houston area each year. The UH System includes the University of Houston, UH-Clear Lake, UH-Downtown and UH-Victoria, and instructional sites in Katy, Northwest Houston, Pearland and Sugar Land. Also at the University of Houston is Houston Public Media, home to KUHT-TV8, Houston’s PBS station and the nation’s first educational television station; KUHF-88.7, Houston’s National Public Radio station; and KUHF 88.7 HD-2, Houston’s digital classical music stream. University of Houston The largest university in Houston and the third largest in the state, UH is a nationally competitive, comprehensive research university offering undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, distance and continuing education studies programs. The oldest of the UH System universities, it is the flagship of the UH System. It has been recognized as a Tier One institution by the Carnegie Foundation for its high level of research activity. University of Houston-Clear Lake Nestled on a 524-acre wildlife and nature preserve near the NASA Johnson Space Center, UH-Clear Lake is a Hispanic Serving Institution offering more than 90 degree programs across four colleges and has an alumni base of more than 75,000. The University expanded from an upper-level and graduate institution into a full, four-year university in 2014, welcoming freshmen and sophomores to campus. University of Houston-Downtown The second-largest university in Houston and the most ethnically diverse university in the state, UHD is a four-year institution located in the central business district, providing valuable opportunities for student internships at major corporations. Founded in 1974, UHD annually ranks among the top institutions in the nation for graduating Hispanic and African American students with bachelor's degrees. University of Houston-Victoria Located in the Coastal Bend region, UHV is an undergraduate and master’s university that enrolled its first freshman class in fall 2010. UHV offers more than 80 academic programs, with concentrations in business; education and health professions; liberal arts and social sciences; and natural and applied sciences, along with one of the most dynamic online educational programs in the state. Understanding the UH System Structure The UH System is comprised of four SEPARATE universities, each with its own budget: UH, UHCL, UHD, UHV. Renu Khator has a dual role as chancellor of the UH System and president of UH. The UHS Board of Regents oversees all four universities. Students within the UH System do not take classes at other UHS universities unless they are co-enrolled in two separate universities. All four UHS universities operate additional locations where they offer students classes taught by their respective faculty, as charted below. These are instructional sites; they are not universities. Instructional Sites Operated by UH University of Houston at Sugar Land University of Houston at Katy Instructional Sites Operated by UHCL University of Houston-Clear Lake at Pearland University of Houston-Clear Lake at Texas Medical Center Instructional Sites Operated by UHD University of Houston-Downtown Northwest University of Houston-Downtown at Lone Star College-Kingwood University of Houston-Downtown at Lone Star College-Woodlands Instructional Sites Operated by UHV University of Houston-Victoria at Katy (UHV Katy) Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies