Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home Legal Affairs Office of Contract Administration Legal Affairs Office of General Counsel Office of Contract Administration Contract Documents Policies Signature Authority FAQs Contact Us Training Office of Contract Administration Contract Administration, a department of the Office of the General Counsel, provides legal and administrative services regarding contracts and contract related issues to the University of Houston System and it's component universities. Our office provides many services intended to help ensure that contracts entered into on behalf of the University comply with University policies and applicable federal and state laws and regulations. These services include developing and maintaining standard contract forms, reviewing and negotiating agreements, providing contracts training and assisting in the resolution of contract disputes. The University's Contract Management Handbook should be consulted for all contract matters, including checklists, dollar thresholds, policies and procedures. The handbook can be found here at this link - OCA Contract Management Handbook. In addition to the Contract Management Handbook linked above, Contract Administration has created the following Contract Administration Guide, which provides contract administration and management procedures that are binding upon all components of the University of Houston System Contract Administration Guide. This Contract Administration Guide replaces the University of Houston’s MAPP 04.01.01A and is promulgated pursuant to the University of Houston SAM 03.A.05. The Contract Administration web site is primarily a resource for individuals involved with University contracts. This includes providing convenient access to relevant forms and information. If you have specific questions or comments, please contact our office. Note - Although we are available to assist as needed, Contract Administration does not typically process: contracts for the procurement of goods, materials, and supplies that are normally procured by component university purchasing departments or delegated to other departments in accordance with System or component university policies; or contracts pertaining to Sponsored Research and/or intellectual property which are funded by grants or other external funding sources. These are processed by the University of Houston Office of Contracts and Grants (OCG) department in accordance with SAM 01.G.01 (Sponsored Research Activities); or contracts pertaining to construction and real estate. These types of matters are processed directly by the Office of the General Counsel and are typically managed by or require involvement with (a) the University of Houston System’s Office of Real Estate Services or (b) the University of Houston System’s Facilities Construction/Management or a component institution’s facilities department. Note - All contracts valued at $1 million or more must include the Board of Regents' approval in the submission packet. Furthermore, per state law, beginning January 1, 2016, all contracts valued at $1 million or more, or that otherwise require Board approval, require the contractor to complete an online Certificate of Interested Parties form (Form 1295) on the Texas Ethics Commission (TEC) website. The UH Controller will ask the contractor to complete Form 1295 and notify the department when the form has been received and the contract can be signed. The following is a flowchart related to the form. Additional information about Form 1295 is available on the Texas Ethics Commission website. Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies