Skip to content Skip to site navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Technology Tools to Get Started at Stanford We think you’ll find these technology resources immediately valuable as you start at Stanford. University IT is the central provider of technology services for the Stanford community, commonly used and supported by IT professionals at schools and units across campus. Together, our goal is to ensure we provide the technology services, systems, and support that you need to do your work. Local IT professionals in individual schools and units may provide additional or alternative services and support. Be sure to check with them about specific technology resources available to you. Email Access your email from any computer with a web browser and internet connection using Stanford Webmail. Configure an email client on your desktop or mobile device. Manage your out-of-office email message, forward your email, create email aliases, and more. University IT Service Desk You may have local IT professionals on staff to help you, or your area may contract with University IT’s Computer Resource Consultants (CRC) to provide local IT support. Either way, the University IT Service Desk is available seven days a week to assist you with computer or communications issues, or route your request to the right person in your area to provide that local support. Chat live with a specialist, submit a help ticket or call 5-HELP (4357) from any Stanford phone (or 650-725-4357 from all other phones). Stanford Services IT Portal Use the Stanford Services IT Portal to: Browse self-help resources for answers to common questions and solutions to technical problems. Explore the catalog of IT services to find what you need, and submit a request for a University IT service. Submit a Help ticket to get help or report a problem. Document Management Tools Stanford provides a variety of free document management tools at no charge to help you store, share and collaborate on files. These tools provide additional data protection beyond the publicly available versions to keep Stanford information secure, and many provide integrations with other tools. You can take advantage of one, some or all of the document management tools simultaneously. They include Stanford Box, Google Drive, OneDrive for Business, and more. Compare features of these tools, and access them, from this document management tools webpage. Instant Messaging Stanford Slack is a free collaboration tool that enhances work group communications. It provides a platform for individual and groups to chat live online and keep conversations secure, organized, and accessible from anywhere, anytime. With Stanford Slack, you can send direct messages to almost anyone at Stanford. Additionally, it’s easy to discover and join other workspaces that are central to your work, although some workspaces are private and require approval to join. Stanford Slack, which is open to anyone with a SUNet ID, provides the best instant messaging experience at Stanford and is the preferred tool. However, some Stanford units are using Jabber for instant messaging. Check with your local technology support staff to determine which tool is best for you. ID Cards Your Stanford University ID Card is your key to surviving on campus. It serves as an identification card and an electronic key, allowing you to easily enter facilities or use services for which you have privileges. Learn about all the ways you can use your Stanford ID Card. Video Conferencing University IT offers several video conferencing tools to meet and collaborate with colleagues across campus, or around the world, reducing travel time and expense while increasing communication and sharing. Zoom is available at no charge. The online tool can be accessed from any computer or mobile device anywhere, and features screen sharing, chat and teleconferencing. Learn more and launch Zoom on this webpage. You can also rent a video conferencing enabled room, or create a video conferencing enabled room in your department. Learn more about all video conferencing options. Mobile Device Management If you want to configure one or more of your mobile devices with Stanford email, contacts, and calendars, you need to install Mobile Device Manager (MDM) and register your device(s). This applies to your personal or Stanford-owned devices, including cell phones and tablets. Why? Not only does MDM automatically configure all your Stanford data, it also allows you to remotely lock and wipe data from the device if it’s lost or stolen, detect when a device has been jailbroken, block intruders, and more. Overall, it provides security for Stanford’s data and yours. Learn more about and enroll your device in MDM. Telephone & Voicemail Learn about Stanford's telephone and voicemail systems, including how to place calls, and how to set up your voicemail. The latter is particularly important if you inherited a previous employee's phone. Also, find out if you are eligible to get discounts on your personal mobile device plans with AT&T, Verizon or Sprint. Just by being a university or hospital employee, you may receive discounts of up to 18 percent on qualifying monthly service plan charges. Technology Training Opportunities If you’re looking to refresh your skills or hone some new ones, University IT provides technology training opportunities to do just that. Take advantage of in-person and online training sessions offered each month by our Technology Training group. These courses are fee-based and eligible for payment through the Staff Training Assistance Program (STAP). Or, dive into LinkedIn Learning, an online video training library with over 13,000 courses, available to you for free with unlimited access. These courses, which are designed for all levels of learners, are available 24/7 and can be viewed on your desktop or mobile device. IT Communities of Practice Join one or more of the 20-plus technology-based Communities of Practice (COPs) channels on SLACK, aimed at supporting collaboration among Stanford professionals. These COPs foster open communication and information sharing around a common topic, and seek to create trusted relationships among Stanford colleagues who work in different areas of the university. Browse the directory of COPs and/or sign up on SLACK. Find Other Services But, be sure to browse all of our services. As technology evolves and the needs of our community change, we regularly roll out new services and enhance our existing offerings. If there’s something you’re used to using that you don’t see, let us know. Chances are we have something similar. Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.