Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to service navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Video Conferencing Overview Services Online solutions Zoom WebEx Onsite solutions Build a Meeting Room Room Support Campus AV Project Resources How to Protect Your Zoom Meetings Stanford Zoom Updates Types of Audiovisual Equipment Hardware Recommendations Best Practices for Effective Video Conferencing Meeting Etiquette Tips How to Schedule, Launch, and Manage a Video Conference Reserve an AV-equipped room Zoom Integrations Collaboration Tools System Status Video Conferencing Meet and collaborate with colleagues across campus or around the world. Online solutions Stanford provides a range of video conferencing services that cater to your unique needs. Zoom Zoom provides the best video conferencing experience at Stanford. Launch Zoom Learn more about Zoom WebEx WebEx is available for groups that require it. Launch WebEx Learn more about WebEx Get support on WebEx Onsite solutions Build, upgrade, or rent a video conferencing room system to fit your needs and budget. Build a Meeting Room The Build a Meeting Room design service can build or upgrade a room system to fit your needs and budget. Learn more about Build a Meeting Room Support a Meeting Room Enjoy the peace of mind of remote and onsite support for your video conferencing room or presentation room by subscribing to the conference and collaboration room support service. Learn more about Support a Room Support an Event Get technical assistance and equipment to hold a video conference in your own department, or in a University IT (UIT) video-enabled room. Learn more about Support an Event Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.