Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to service navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Stanford Web Services Overview Stanford Sites Get Stanford Sites Learn about Stanford Sites Drupal Platform Professional Services Website Consulting Overview Website Project Strategy Vendor Selection and Liaison User Experience Design Consulting Visual Design Consulting Digital Strategy Consulting Mobile and Web Application Design Consulting Website Building Website Building Options Custom Website Project School Specific Services Website Support Retainer About SWS The SWS Value The SWS Impact Drupal Projects Blog Web Content Management Program Stanford Web Services We provide the Stanford community a full range of website planning, design, development, and maintenance support at below-market rates. SWS professional service offerings include helping set up your website on the Stanford Sites Drupal Platform. If you want to learn more and explore options for building a Drupal site, take a look at our Drupal Adoption & Rebuild Guide. Website Building We offer an array of visually compelling solutions with flexible page layouts, dynamic content types, and easy-to-use tools for managing your content in a Stanford-branded design. Learn more about Website Building Website Consulting Leverage our web design and development experience at Stanford to guide you through the complexities of your projects. We can help you craft a comprehensive web project strategy, engage services of highly-qualified vendors, or advise you how to improve the experience of your website visitors. Learn more about Website Consulting The SWS Value Although I have had some previous experience in launching websites, the SWS team was extremely patient, flexible, and knowledgeable throughout the whole process and contributed valuable ideas to ensuring my class website achieved its stated goals. I am very appreciative for your support, and to have your group available as a trusted and quality resource. – Nita Singh Kaushal, Lecturer, School of Engineering Website Examples Commencement Stanford Giving Knight-Hennessy Scholars View Portfolio 5 Reasons Stanford Sites is the Perfect Solution for Your Website November 2, 2021 Learn more about 5 Reasons Stanford Sites is the Perfect Solution for Your Website Drupal 7 Support Ends November 2023 October 27, 2021 Learn more about Drupal 7 Support Ends November 2023 What do I need to know about working with a vendor on my Stanford website? October 27, 2021 Learn more about What do I need to know about working with a vendor on my Stanford website? Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.