Skip to content Skip to site navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Explore IT Perks at Stanford Free and discounted IT services, tools, and resources to increase your knowledge, save time, and put money back in your pocket. As a member of the Stanford community, you have access to information technology (IT) perks including discounted mobile device plans, free online training courses, Microsoft Office discounts, and much more. Below is a sampling of the IT perks to start taking advantage of today. Personal Mobile Device Plans Save up to 18 percent on your personal, qualified service plans through AT&T, Verizon, and Sprint. All that’s needed is a Stanford-affiliated email that ends in @stanford.edu, @stanfordhealthcare.org, or @stanfordchildrens.org. Available to: university and hospital employees Review details and start saving now » Microsoft Office Suite Individuals with an Office 365 account can install Office 365 ProPlus on up to five computers (Windows and Mac), five tablets, and five smartphones at no charge. These devices can be personal or Stanford-owned. You’ll need to connect to the internet at least once every 30 days to verify that your Office 365 license is active. Available to: faculty, university staff, students Learn more about Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus » LinkedIn Learning Training At LinkedIn Learning, get free access to thousands of high-quality video tutorials 24/7 for self-paced learning. These tutorials are created by industry leaders and cover topics such as business, web design, and programming, with new courses rolling out every week. Available to: faculty, university staff, students Log in and start learning » Mobile Device Repair Service Breaking a smartphone or tablet can happen to anyone. But don’t let those shattered screens, dead batteries, or dysfunctional buttons get you down. University IT offers several options for the times when your device needs repairing. Available to: faculty, university and hospital staff, students Explore your options » Computer Equipment Get a large inventory of Apple, Dell, and Lenovo computer equipment at discounted academic pricing. Shop online or in store at the Stanford Bookstore to take advantage of these discounts. Available to: faculty, university staff, students Shop for an Apple product » Shop for a Lenovo product » Shop for a Dell product » Access the Cardinal Tech Center at the Stanford Bookstore » Safari Books Online Safari Books Online is the premier on-demand digital library providing you free access to thousands of technology, digital media and business books and videos. Categories include: business, desktop and web applications, digital media, information technology and software development, personal and professional development, products, and vendors. Available to: faculty, university staff, students Browse available books » Gartner Research Take advantage of free access to Gartner, which provides accurate and current research for the IT industry. Gartner offers information on technologies, services, and industry trends. It also helps users translate complex issues into comprehensive advice and meaningful analysis. Available to: faculty, university staff, students Access the portal » Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.