Skip to content Skip to site navigation Skip to service navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Work Anywhere Overview Collab Tools Use Collab Tools Protect Your Zoom Meetings Stanford Zoom Updates Home Office Fix Home Networking Issues Equipment Recommendations Telecommuting & Mobile Ergonomics Temporary Movement of Office Equipment Resources FAQ Distributed & Remote Workers Community International Travel Online Training Work Anywhere Technology resources, services, and equipment to enable the success of Stanford’s distributed workforce — no matter where your “office” may be. Use collab tools Set up your home office Access your work Secure your data Get help COVID Notice Stanford is continually monitoring the status of COVID. Read the latest Stanford information: healthalerts.stanford.edu. Use collaboration tools Location doesn’t matter when you’ve got reliable online tools to help you connect and collaborate with colleagues. Stanford’s recommended collaboration tools are Slack for instant messaging, Google Shared Drive for file sharing, Zoom for video conferencing, and Jabber softphone. If you work at SLAC, visit SLAC's Remote Worker’s Toolkit View Quick Start Guide Zoom [VIDEO] Ways to Engage as an Effective Zoom Participant How to Schedule, Launch, and Manage a Video Conference Meeting Etiquette Tips Best Practices for Effective Video Conferencing How to Protect Your Zoom Meetings Zoom Meetings to Require Passwords Starting June 23 How to Add a Zoom Password to an Existing Meeting Learn more about Zoom Slack Quick Guide to Slack Best Practices for Telecommuting Slack Resources Five Slack Hacks to Save the Day Engaging Remote and Distributed Colleagues in Slack Join New Workspaces (How to Do It and Why You Want To) How to Format a Text Message in Slack Slack Tips for Managers of Distributed Teams Learn more about Slack Set up your home office You may need to modify or add to your existing equipment or home office setup to accommodate the unique circumstances of your remote work environment. Check out these recommendations and guidelines. In light of COVID-19, eligible employees who are required to work from home during the pandemic may be eligible to purchase or be reimbursed for basic necessary ergonomic equipment recommended by Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S). For details, see Home Office Equipment/Furnishings. Equipment recommendations Get specific equipment recommendations for laptops, monitors, keyboards and mice, headsets, and webcams to assist you during the Shelter-in-Place order. See equipment recommendations Ergonomics No matter where you’re working, it is imperative to set up your workstation to allow for neutral postures. Visit the Environmental Health & Safety website for telecommuting and mobile ergonomics guidelines and resources. See ergonomics guidelines Moving office equipment If you need to temporarily move your office equipment during the Shelter-in-Place order, follow these guidelines. See equipment movement guidelines Network connectivity When you work from home, you may have less bandwidth available to you than you had at the office. If your internet speed is slow or you have issues connecting to Stanford applications or virtual meetings, try these troubleshooting tips to speed up your work. Get quick fix recommendations Access your work Many key applications and document repositories are completely network-accessible from your Stanford-issued laptop or tablet or from your personal laptop or tablet. Widely-used applications Quickly access some of the most commonly used cloud-based applications for your Stanford work: Email and Calendar (and other Office 365 services) Google Drive Stanford Box Stanford Medicine Box Confluence Medwiki Oracle Financials Services & Support Portal Smartsheet Voicemail Using VPN VPN is a remote access technology that allows you to securely connect to Stanford’s network as if you were on campus. This makes access to restricted services possible, and provides encryption between your computer and the Stanford network. Many commonly used Stanford applications and services can be directly accessed from anywhere and do not require the use of VPN. To access secure services that require VPN, visit Stanford's VPN service page for instructions. Learn more and get connected to Stanford's VPN Keep your data secure Security requirements If you work remotely on your home computer (rather than on your Stanford-issued laptop or tablet), you must be aware of the security requirements for your device based on the risk classifications for the data and applications you use. See minimum security standards Cardinal Key Use Cardinal Keys to provide stronger protection for your account and simplify your login experience. Cardinal Keys reduce or eliminate the need to use your SUNet ID and password for web-based logins and eliminate the need to use your username, password, and two-step authentication for VPN connections. Learn about Cardinal Key Get help FAQ Check out our FAQ for more information or search the IT Services Knowledge Base to find helpful articles on a range of topics pertaining to remote work and telecommuting. See FAQ UIT Service Desk Need immediate help? Call the University IT Service Desk at 650.725.4357 (option 5). If you need IT support for an issue related to telecommuting or remote work, submit a Help request and we’ll get you connected with someone who can help. Submit Help request Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.