Skip to content Skip to site navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Stanford Mobile The official mobile app of Stanford University Get the Inside Scoop on Commencement with Stanford Mobile June 10, 2021 Learn more about Get the Inside Scoop on Commencement with Stanford Mobile Get Stanford Mobile Download the native application from the App Store or Google Play. About Stanford Mobile Stanford Mobile is the official mobile app of Stanford University, where Stanford students, staff, faculty, alumni, parents, and friends connect to essential information on The Farm. The app allows you to explore campus dining options, upcoming events, featured news stories, campus and shuttle maps, and more at your fingertips. Stanford community members with a SUNet ID can login and access the Stanford Health Check and Mobile ID features. Health Check gives you quick and convenient access to the self-reporting tool. Mobile ID displays the information that you find on your physical Stanford ID card: your name, photo, affiliation, University ID, and barcode number. Expanded Mobile ID functionality, which includes door access to Stanford buildings, is currently part of a University IT pilot program. The Stanford Mobile app is maintained by University IT. Review the Stanford Mobile app Privacy Policy. View Stanford Mobile Release NotesView Blog Posts Mobile Key Activate Mobile Key on your Stanford Mobile app to use your phone as your building access key card! With Mobile Key, in place of your ID card you can tap your phone on card readers to open doors. Mobile Key is currently rolling out on a pilot basis, and will eventually be available to all Stanford faculty, staff, students, and postdocs. Stay tuned for rollout details. Learn more about Mobile Key Stanford Health Check In support of the safe, gradual return to our campuses, you can use the Stanford Mobile app to easily access the Stanford Health Check tool. With the mobile Health Check feature, a tap of your finger lets you: Conveniently access Health Check to report your health status Quickly display your Onsite Access Badge to confirm that you are cleared to be on campus Enable weekly notifications reminding you to report your health status before arriving onsite at a Stanford location Learn more about Health Check FAQs Do I have to pay to install Stanford Mobile? No. The app is free for both iOS and Android. How do I install Stanford Mobile? Open this page on your iOS or Android mobile device. Click the appropriate install link and you will be directed to the iOS App Store or Google Play Store page to install the app. You will need to log into your store account. I already have the Stanford Mobile app. Why do I need to download the app again? We've rebuilt Stanford Mobile for iOS and Android to make room for new robust features and services. To access these new features, you'll need to download the new Stanford Mobile from the App Store or Google Play. We recommend that you delete the old Stanford Mobile app because everything you need will be available on the new one. Stanford Mobile asks me to allow push notifications. What is this used for? We will occasionally send messages to users of Stanford Mobile about updates or new features. We will also send AlertSU emergency messages to users via push notification in the event of a campus emergency. The Stanford Health Check feature will push weekly notifications reminding you to report your health status before arriving onsite at a Stanford location. Does Stanford Mobile collect any personal information from my device? The Stanford Mobile app complies with Stanford University's Privacy Policy. It does not gather any personal information which is not directly related to functionality within the app. Review the Stanford Mobile app Privacy Policy. How do I enable Cardinal Key on Stanford Mobile? Cardinal Key is only available for iOS devices. To enable Cardinal Key on the Stanford Mobile app, your iOS device must first be configured for Cardinal Key. Follow these instructions on how to install Cardinal Key on an iOS device. Once your iOS device is configured, follow these instructions on how to enable Cardinal Key within Stanford Mobile. Contact Us Questions or feedback about Stanford Mobile? Submit this form to the Stanford Mobile team. Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.