Skip to content Skip to site navigation University IT Navigation menu Explore services I want to ... Use video conferencing tools Get IT training Create web forms and surveys Set up email Set up two-step authentication Sponsor a SUNet ID Get software Connect to the network Secure my mobile device Get website hosting Publish a website Get started with IT at Stanford Log into ... Email and calendar Zoom video conferencing Box file storage Medicine Box file storage Mailing lists Stanford Accounts MyDevices Qualtrics survey tool Google Drive Understanding single sign on View alerts Get support Find answers Request something Get help Open Search Technology Resources for incoming students Campus Connections Collaboration Tools Email and Calendar Network, Storage, and Computing Phone Printing Security Software Web Stanford has one of the most extensive and diverse campus computing environments in the world. Your Stanford University Network Identifier (SUNet ID) and password will give you access to many online services, including email, collaboration tools, course information, and security systems. This guide on technology resources will help you get started as an incoming student at Stanford. Campus Connections Connect with campus — courses, peers, Stanford news and events — from anywhere Axess Axess is Stanford’s primary website for managing your course enrollment, keeping your contact information current, reviewing your university bill, and viewing financial aid information. Launch Axess The Stanford Directory StanfordWho, also known as the Stanford People and Organization Search, is the web application that enables you to search the Stanford directory of faculty, staff, students, and sponsored affiliates at Stanford University and the Stanford hospitals. StanfordWho provides contact and organization information. StanfordYou is the web application that enables you to update your contact information and SUNet accounts, including password, vacation auto-reply, profile, and privacy settings. Stanford Mobile The Stanford Mobile app allows you to explore campus dining options, upcoming events, recent news stories, campus and shuttle maps, and more at your fingertips. You can even log in and access the Stanford Health Check and Mobile ID features to submit your daily health status and display information that you find on your physical Stanford ID card. Get the Stanford Mobile app Collaboration Tools Stay connected to your network with these Stanford-provided resources that enable collaboration, feedback, brainstorming, and communication from any location Zoom Video Conferencing at Stanford An easy, reliable cloud platform for video, voice, content sharing, and chat across mobile devices, desktops, telephones, and room systems. Every student is eligible for a Stanford Zoom video conferencing license. Learn more and set up your Zoom account Stanford Slack A communication platform to chat live online and keep conversations organized and accessible from anywhere, anytime. Get tips to log in to Slack for the first time and how to get the most out of the tool Google Shared drives Shared spaces where teams can easily store, search, and access their files anywhere, from any device. You can access files from your computer using any web browser or you can install the mobile application to access your files from your Android or iOS mobile device. Get started with Google Shared drives today Email and Calendar Set up your Stanford email and web-based calendar Your Stanford Email Account Email is an important way of communicating with faculty, staff, and other students. All official Stanford emails will be sent to your @stanford.edu account. You should regularly check your Stanford email account for official information from Stanford. Learn more about email acocunt services Your Stanford Calendar Manage your personal web-based calendar, resource calendar, and contact list using Office 365 or Google Workspace. Learn more about your calendaring options Network, Storage, and Computing Explore Stanford’s network, shared computing environment, and storage spaces The Stanford Network Stanford’s centrally-provided network allows you to connect to resources here and across the globe. Student residents looking for on-campus connections can follow the instructions on the Learning Technologies & Spaces Connect to Network page. Student residents in need of wireless connections can follow the instructions under the Faculty & Staff section for phones and tablets and the Learning Technologies & Spaces Connect to Network page for laptops and desktops. Connect to the Stanford Network (SUNet) with Windows. Connect to the Stanford Network (SUNet) with Mac OS X. Google Drive Get unlimited storage space to store and share files in the cloud with Google Drive. You can also install the desktop and mobile application to access your files from your computer, Android or iOS mobile device. Learn more about Google Drive Microsoft OneDrive Microsoft Office Online and OneDrive are now available through your Office 365 account, providing you with online versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote, as well as 25TB of cloud storage. The storage offered through OneDrive is in addition to your email storage of 100GB. Learn more about Microsoft OneDrive Shared Computing Environment Stanford’s shared computing environment, called Farmshare, provides Linux facilities for general and research computing with your SUNet ID. Learn more about our Shared Computing Environment Phone Get access to telephone and mobile services Telephone Services Stanford operates its own telephone system and provides a phone with basic service in most dorm rooms with call waiting and free local and long-distance calls. The phone line will be active when you arrive on campus. All residents in Stanford student housing are assessed a technology fee on the quarterly university bill, which includes basic phone and network service. Learn more about telephone services Mobile Device Services Stanford has partnered with AT&T, Verizon, Samsung, and T-Mobile to help save you money on your personal mobile device plans and accessories. Just by being a Stanford student, you may be eligible to receive discounts of up to 18% on qualifying monthly service plan charges and up to 25% on some accessories. Learn more about discounts for personal mobile device plans Print, Scan, and Copy Learn how and where you can securely print, scan, and copy documents from locations all across campus Learn more by visiting Learning Technology & Spaces Security Protect yourself and Stanford with secure computing practices Security Awareness Video Once your Stanford account has been established, you will be prompted via email to view the university’s 12-minute security awareness video. You have 45 days to view the video, after which your Stanford account access will be blocked until you have done so. View the video on the Information Security page Information Security There are steps you can take to keep your computing devices and the entire Stanford network secure. The first time you connect your computer to the campus network, you will be automatically directed to the Student Technology Services Network Registration System to register your computer with the university. After you register your computer, the university provides a number of additional resources to help you maintain a secure configuration. Browse this guide on how to protect yourself and Stanford with secure computing practices Two-Step Authentication Two-Step Authentication is an extra layer of security for your Stanford account. It is required to access many Stanford systems and protects your Stanford account should someone else learn your password. Two forms of authentication are required to verify your identity: Your SUNet ID and password A dynamic, single-use mechanism (could be a mobile device app or a hardware token) *You are strongly encouraged to configure more than one dynamic mechanism in case your primary is lost or otherwise unavailable. You can view and modify your settings at accounts.stanford.edu. For problems with Two-Step Authentication, call the University IT Service Desk at (650) 725-HELP or submit a Help request. Learn more about Two-Step Authentication Cardinal Key Go passwordless with Cardinal Key. Cardinal Keys reduce or eliminate the need to use your SUNet ID and password for web-based logins and eliminate the need to use your username, password, and two-step authentication for VPN connections — all while providing stronger protection for your account. Learn more and install a Cardinal Key today Dashlane Password Manager Dashlane is a tool that remembers your passwords for you. It instantly logs you into the websites that you use daily and helps you populate common information for online forms. Stanford provides a Dashlane Premium account free of charge to all students. Learn more about Dashlane and password management Mobile Device Management (Workspace ONE) Mobile Device Management (MDM) provides enhanced protection, convenient configuration, and self-service tools for mobile devices. It also keeps you up to date with best practices. Learn more about Mobile Device Management Software Safe and secure access to Stanford’s software programs Stanford Software Get applications that help you plug into the Stanford network and access university computing services safely and securely. Software selections are filtered by platform, accessibility, collaboration, compliance, file transfer, networks and connectivity, productivity, and utilities. Learn more on the Essential Stanford Software page Software Licensing Additionally, the University IT Software Licensing office acts as the main point of contact for software that is available for purchase or use on campus. Learn more about the software offerings on the Software Licensing page Web Access to web-based applications and personal web space For a broader overview of web-related services, visit the University Web Services page Stanford Sites Stanford Sites is a free, self-service tool for building and managing websites for university work. It offers design flexibility, integration with Stanford systems, and substantial functionality through Drupal. Websites are hosted in the cloud on a system designed for fast performance and high availability. Learn more about Stanford Sites Website for Individuals Stanford provides several no-cost options to individuals with a full-service SUNet ID for publishing a personal website. Learn more about publishing a personal website Web Infrastructure and Resources Stanford’s centrally provided web services are part of the main campus computing infrastructure and are handled by a server called web.stanford.edu. Learn more about web infrastructure and resources Services Explore all services Cloud Solutions Q&As Get started with IT Practice secure computing Technology Toolkit for Telecommuting and Remote Work IT perks Support Find answers Request something Get help View system and project status Browser recommendations University IT About us Organization chart Current job openings Connect News Events Communities of Practice UIT Community (UIT staff only) UIT Web Editors Login Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright Complaints Trademark Notice © Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.