Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Forever Utah alumni.utah.edu Terms and Agreements MUSS Board Spirit/Conduct Guide Traditions Features The MUSS The MUSS is the University of Utah’s student fan club for all of the athletics teams on campus including football, men’s and women’s basketball, gymnastics, volleyball, and baseball. Currently, the Football MUSS is the only one with an official registration process. History and Introduction Established in 2002, The MUSS became the most popular student section in the Mountain West Conference and is now one of the most prominent in the Pac-12. Over the years, nearly 100,000 students have been members of the MUSS. Together they have cheered on their fellow students and created lifelong memories. In 2004, it was named one of the Top Five Student Sections in the country by ESPN, and the same honor was given in 2014 by NCAA.com. In 2021, The MUSS was recognized by ESPN as the Live Mas Student Section of the Year. Connect with us! Follow The MUSS on Instagram, Twitter, and TikTok Email alerts: MUSS members, have you been receiving our emails? If not, first check your spam folders. To receive important weekly information and timely updates throughout the season, send your name, student ID number, and preferred email address to muss@alumni.utah.edu. MUSS Membership Every student at the U is a MUSS member and is encouraged to support the various Utah teams throughout the year. Football is the only sport that is different. While a limited number of football tickets are available to students, there is an option to purchase a MUSS Premium Membership to guarantee tickets for the entire season. See below for more information about MUSS Premium. MUSS Premium memberships MUSS Premium memberships for the 2022 season includes the following: exclusive MUSS T-shirt, guaranteed tickets to all home football games, reserved seating for the 2022 football season (when reserved seating sells out, standing room memberships are available), and access to all pre-game tailgates which includes giveaways and free food, plus the opportunity to register for MUSS Bus, if applicable. Note: Each MUSS member is allowed to register up to two non-student guests for an additional $259. 2022 MUSS Premium Registration – Begins April 1, 2022, at noon The first step is to log in to www.ticketmaster.com. Here are instructions on the registration process as well as a video walkthrough in case you need help or have questions. Helpful tips: • You MUST log in with your CIS email address in this format: u0123456@utah.edu. • We strongly suggest you log in and/or create an account before April 1 to make sure you won’t have any problems. Please read the MUSS Registration FAQs for more details on group registration and guest details. All MUSS sales are final and no refunds will be given. In the event of a season cancellation, however, we will readjust the policy and will contact all MUSS members with updated information. MUSS Traditions 3rd down jump Tailgates MUSS Bus Spring Flag Football More traditions to come! The MUSS FAQs Do I need to purchase a MUSS membership to attend Utah sporting events? No. MUSS Football Membership is an OPTIONAL program for students. Tickets to all home sporting events are available to students by either showing your student ID at the door or obtaining tickets through the ticket office. For more information on student tickets, check www.utahtickets.com or call the ticket office at 801-581-8849. How much of the membership goes to the Utah Athletic Department? One hundred percent of the MUSS Football membership fees goes back to The MUSS. None of the fees go to the Athletics Department. Fees go back to providing students swag, food, and student activities around athletic events. What is The MUSS? The MUSS is the University of Utah’s student fan club for a number of the athletics teams on campus including football, men’s and women’s basketball, gymnastics, volleyball, and baseball. Currently, the Football MUSS is the only one with an official registration process. Established in 2002, The MUSS became the most popular student section in the Mountain West Conference and is looking to do the same in the Pac-12. In 2004, it was named one of the Top Five Student Sections in the country by ESPN, and the same honor was given in 2014 by NCAA.com. Why should I join The MUSS? The MUSS gives students opportunities at and around athletics events that they normally wouldn’t receive. Football MUSS members receive a reserved seat for each home football game and are invited to attend an exclusive tailgate before each home football game. The tailgates include free food and prize giveaways. Football MUSS members are also given the opportunity to travel to an away game for a discounted price. Each MUSS member also receives a one-of-a-kind MUSS T-shirt. The MUSS provides an exciting and memorable experience for students at athletics events. Students who join The MUSS develop a bond with other students on campus and also with the athletics teams. We hope that MUSS members will become lifelong University of Utah fans! What do The MUSS stand for? The MUSS is a word taken from the school's fight song. The dictionary definition of muss is a state of disorder, confusion or chaos. The MUSS has also been termed the “Mighty Utah Student Section." Who can join The MUSS? You must be a U student to join The MUSS. MUSS members are given the option to register non-student guests. If you will not be enrolled in classes during the sport season, you will need to join as a guest. How do guest memberships work? Guests can be non-students, family members, friends, etc. All Football MUSS members, and their guests, will receive a seating assignment in The MUSS section. This assignment will stay the same all season, and members' seating will be adjacent to that of their guests. For other sports without assigned seating, MUSS members and guests may sit in the MUSS section. To enter Rice-Eccles Stadium or the Huntsman Center, you must either present your student ID card (which will be scanned) or use Flash Seats (for MUSS members who prefer, or any member with a guest attached). Members and guests must enter together because the seats are in one account (unless the tickets are transferred to another Flash Seats account, which is subject to a transfer fee). Flash Seats allow you to enter by using the credit card used for the tickets, or you may download an app to a smartphone and enter by using the phone. To create a Flash Seats account, log in to your Utah tickets account and follow the prompts. Note: You must wear your MUSS lanyard to each game or you will be sent to the Standing Room Only section. Why do my guests need guest memberships? As a University of Utah student, you pay athletics fees in your tuition; those fees allow you to attend U athletic events for free. Since your guests are not students, and don’t pay the athletic fees, they need to pay to enter the athletic events. Does The MUSS provide accessible seating for members with disabilities? Yes, The MUSS works to accommodate students with disabilities. The student must be registered with the University of Utah’s Center for Disability Services and must meet the ADA requirements. If you require special accommodations, you must notify The MUSS. We will work to fulfill your request while also taking your registration time into account. U Alumni Premier Partners Cleone Peterson Eccles Alumni House 155 South Central Campus Drive Salt Lake City, UT 84112 (801) 581-6995 Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube AF 2022 The University of Utah. All rights reserved. Contact Us Privacy Policy Disclaimer Nondiscrimination and accessibility Mobile Menu Close Menu Terms and Agreements MUSS Board Spirit/Conduct Guide Traditions