Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Forever Utah Login Rent the Alumni House Find an Alum Update Your Record Career Help Career Coaching Career Event Archive Career Resources Forever Utah Network Benefits Alumni-Owned Businesses Update Your Record Utah Alumni App Life Benefits (paid) Events Alumni Events Calendar Founders Day 2022 U Athletics Calendar University Events Virtual Events Archive Homecoming 2022 Connect Alumni Clubs Alumni Communities Beehive Honor Society Boards New Grads Scholarships The MUSS Contribute Give to Scholarships Sponsorship Programs U License Plates News Alumni Connection @theU Submit Your News University of Utah Magazine Contact About U Alumni Contact U Alumni Home Page Features Homecoming 2022 Celebrate the U from Sept. 24 to Oct. 1—join us for the U5K, golf event, tailgate and more! Read More Class of 2022 Welcome new grads to the U Alumni community! Learn More Forever Utah Join us on the Forever Utah Alumni Network—one network for U alumni and students worldwide! Learn more Scholarship Speed U license plates fund scholarships—more than $600,000 for deserving students each year. Learn More The Alumni House is open to host events at this time. To inquire about renting a space, please call (801) 581-6995 or visit ecclesalumnihouse.utah.edu. U Alumni Events Jun 16 Go Learn: Peru – Architecture, Urbanism & Astronomy Join us on a fascinating exploration to study the diverse cultures and the history of ancient Andean civilizations and their architectural alignment with the constellations that transformed them into living stone calendars. Learn more and register now. Jul 28 Utah Night at the Rockies 2022 5:00 PM After a short break, we're excited this event is back. Join us for this year's Utah Night at the Rockies, hosted by Colorado Rockies owner Charlie Monfort BS'82. Join University of Utah President Taylor Randall HBS'90 and fellow alums for a great night at the ballpark. Jun 15 U Alumni Sacramento Club Meet-up 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Please join us for a meet-up with University of Utah Sacramento alumni hosted by U Alumni on Zoom. Our goal is to understand what engagement is most meaningful for alumni based on the unique experiences had at the U, including what kind of events and communication you prefer. Register today! View all U Alumni events Quick Links Career Resources Alumni Clubs Networking A Call to Action Our commitment is explicit, to work together to eliminate inequities in our policies, practices, and systems. Land Acknowledgement We acknowledge that this land is the traditional and ancestral homeland of the Shoshone, Paiute, Goshute, and Ute Tribes. U Athletics Mark your calendars—Utah Football returns on Sept. 2! Tickets for the upcoming season are on sale now. Join fellow alumni online Facebook University of Utah Alumni Association Instagram Twitter Tweets by utahalumni U Alumni Premier Partners Career Help Events Connect Contribute News About Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Forever Utah 155 S. Central Campus Drive, Salt Lake City, UT 84112 (801) 581-6995 (office) (801) 581-3711 (fax) 2022 The University of Utah. All rights reserved. Contact Us Privacy Policy Disclaimer Nondiscrimination and accessibility Mobile Menu Close Menu Career Help Career Coaching Career Event Archive Career Resources U Jobs College and Department Resources Forever Utah Network Benefits Alumni-Owned Businesses Update Your Record Utah Alumni App Life Benefits (paid) Events Alumni Events Calendar Founders Day 2022 U Athletics Calendar University Events Virtual Events Archive Homecoming 2022 Connect Alumni Clubs Alumni Communities Beehive Honor Society Boards Board of Governors Student Alumni Board MUSS Board New Grads Scholarships The MUSS Contribute Give to Scholarships Sponsorship Programs U License Plates News Alumni Connection @theU Submit Your News University of Utah Magazine Contact About U Alumni Contact U Alumni Login Rent the Alumni House Find an Alum Update Your Record