Skip to content Skip to breadcrumbs Skip to header menu Skip to action menu Skip to quick search Linked Applications Loading... Spaces Hit enter to search Help Online Help Keyboard Shortcuts Feed Builder What’s new Available Gadgets About Confluence Log in ITS Knowledge Base Pages Blog Page tree Browse pagesConfigureSpace tools Attachments (8) Page History People who can view Page Information Resolved comments View in Hierarchy View Source Export to PDF Export to Word Pages ITS Knowledge Base Accounts Skip to end of banner Jira links Go to start of banner Activate Your Account Skip to end of metadata Created by Clark,Arielle, last modified on Apr 07, 2022 Go to start of metadata Welcome to the University of Louisville! We’re so happy to have you. This page tells you how to activate your account with the University of Louisville. Click a button below to activate your account. Activate Your Account Click a button below to access your account. If you are a student and/or employee, select “I am a student and/or employee”. If you are a person outside of the University of Louisville who is claiming an account sponsored by a department with the University, select “I am a Sponsored User.” How to Activate Your Account I am a Student and/or Employee If you are a student and/or employee, follow this step-by-step guide to activate your account. Click the “I am a Student and/or Employee” button above. A new window will appear. Or, go to: https://identity.louisville.edu/AccountClaim. In the new window, enter your first name, last name, birth date and student ID number. These are required fields and must be completed to claim your account. If you have a personal email address, enter it as well. Select “I’m not a robot”, and complete any reCAPTCHA that appears in the box. After successfully verifying your information, Step 3 will appear. Review the terms of use, and accept them by clicking “ACCEPT”. After accepting our terms of use, your user ID will appear. Make note of your user ID, as this ID will be used to log in to various systems across the University (ULink, email, etc.) After obtaining your User ID, set up your recovery information. This information is needed in case you forget your password. You may skip this option for now; however, because your recovery information is used to reset your password, we highly recommend you complete this information. After entering your recovery information, you will be sent an email (if you entered a recovery email) and/or an SMS text message (if you entered a recovery mobile phone number) with a PIN. Enter this PIN into the boxes provided to verify your recovery information. Do not share this PIN with anyone. After your recovery information is verified (or the recovery step is skipped), create and confirm your account password. Your password must meet all mandatory criteria listed on the page on the right side of the screen. Once your password is successfully set, you will receive a confirmation message and will be taken to a new webpage. I am a Sponsored User If you are a sponsored user, follow this step-by-step guide to activate your account. Click the “I am a Sponsored User” button above. A new window will appear. Or, go to: https://identity.louisville.edu/SponsoredAccountClaim In the new window, enter your first name, last name and personal email. Complete the reCAPTCHA. Review and accept the terms of use. After accepting our terms of use, your user ID will appear. Make note of your user ID, as this ID will be used to log in to various systems across the University (ULink, email, etc.) After obtaining your User ID, set up your recovery information. This information is needed in case you forget your password. You may skip this option for now; however, because your recovery information is used to reset your password, we highly recommend you complete this information. After entering your recovery information, you will be sent an email (if you entered a recovery email) and/or an SMS text message (if you entered a recovery mobile phone number) with a PIN. Enter this PIN into the boxes provided to verify your recovery information. Do not share this PIN with anyone. After your recovery information is verified (or the recovery step is skipped), create and confirm your account password. Your password must meet all mandatory criteria listed on the page on the right side of the screen. Once your password is successfully set, you will receive a confirmation message and will be taken to a new webpage. Need help? Contact Information Technology Services HelpDesk at 502-852-7997. Or go to: https://helpdesk.louisville.edu. first time user Overview Content Tools Activity For further assistance, contact the IT HelpDesk at 502-852-7997. Powered by Atlassian Confluence 7.13.0 Printed by Atlassian Confluence 7.13.0 Report a bug Atlassian News Atlassian {"serverDuration": 77, "requestCorrelationId": "b66ddeb48d8f279d"}