Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Inside UMD News & Events Admissions Support UMD YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Home Inclement Weather Inclement Weather Read the message to campus on inclement weather guidance for spring semester 2022. Where can I find information about university closures due to inclement weather? Updates regarding UMD’s closures, delays and other schedule changes, will be announced through various channels, including: UMD homepage (www.umd.edu) Twitter (@President_Pines, @UMDRightNow and @UofMaryland) Facebook UMD Alerts UMD Snowline (x5-SNOW or 301-405-7669) Local news outlets via the web, TV and radio The university will not make an announcement if the campus is open and operating under normal operations. The university makes every effort to communicate changes to campus operations by 4:30 a.m. How does the university decide when to close the university for inclement weather? The university may delay opening or close the campus in the event that inclement weather conditions pose a serious threat to the health and safety of the university community. A variety of factors are taken into consideration, including access to public transportation and Metro, the status of campus roads and sidewalks, and conditions on roads and sidewalks off campus and across the region. What offices and departments close? When the university is closed, all classes during that time are canceled and all university offices and non-essential services are closed, unless specifically noted in the campus closure communication. The closing may not apply to essential employees. Those employees should contact their supervisor or department head for instructions. Who are essential employees? The following definitions apply to individuals who are considered essential during inclement weather events: Weather/Other: Employees who are subject to being required to work because of weather or operational emergencies such as snow removal, flooding, electrical outages, etc. Catastrophic & Weather/Other: Employees who are subject to being required to work to maintain continuity of University services in the event of any major catastrophic event AND who are also subject to being required to work because of weather or operational emergencies. For certain positions, work may be able to be completed remotely. If an employee is unsure whether they are an essential employee for inclement weather events, they should contact their supervisor for guidance. How are student services affected when the university is closed? Information for frequently requested services include: Resident Life: When the University is closed due to inclement weather, residence halls remain open, however, Resident Life administrative offices are closed. Resident students who need assistance should contact their residence hall service desk to contact on-duty Resident Life staff. In an emergency, residents should contact the University of Maryland Police Department immediately by calling 301-405-3333. Residents should check the Resident Life website, follow @UMDReslife on Twitter, and monitor email regularly for any pertinent residence halls updates. Dining Services: In the event of a campus closure, Dining Services operates on an abbreviated schedule. For up-to-date information, visit the Dining Services website; or find additional information about Dining Services policies during emergency conditions. Health Center: The University Health Center’s hours vary during a campus closure based on the severity of the weather. When possible, the UHC will remain open for urgent visits during at least part of the day during a weather closure. If the UHC does not open, this information will be posted on the website. For the latest information on open hours, visit the University Health Center website. For life-threatening or mental health emergencies, call 911 (off-campus) or 301-405-3333 (on-campus for University of Maryland Police Department) Libraries: The University Libraries follow the same closing schedule as the university. Access to online resources will be available. Stamp Student Union: In the event that the university is closed, all events in the Stamp will be canceled. If the university has a delayed opening, the Stamp will open 30 minutes before the university's scheduled opening time, and events will begin one hour after the university's scheduled opening time. If the university closes early during the regular operational hours of the Stamp, all events will end one hour before the scheduled university close time and the Stamp will remain open for up to one hour after the university's scheduled closing time. Follow @thestampumd on Twitter or visit Stamp’s website for the latest information on the Stamp’s hours of operation, service departments, and retail vendors during inclement weather. Transportation: When campus is closed, Shuttle-UM service may be reduced or suspended entirely. If campus closes early, DOTS will do its best to operate at least one additional shuttle run of each route following the closure time prior to suspending service. DOTS will closely monitor campus road conditions when considering when to resume service. Sign up for NextBusAlerts for weather-related closures and delays and follow @DOTS_UMD on Twitter for the latest details. For parking, DOTS may encourage students to move their vehicles into garages to expedite snow removal from the parking lots. DOTS will email or text students with information. University Recreation & Wellness: When campus is closed, RecWell facilities will operate on an abbreviated schedule and all RecWell programs, including group fitness classes, will be canceled. For more information about the availability of RecWell facilities during inclement weather, including provisions for when the university opens late, closes early, or is closed for the day, visit RecWell’s inclement weather website or follow @UMDRecWell on Twitter. If my class falls partially during a period when the university is closed, will it still be held? Classes scheduled while the university is closed are canceled. In the case of a late opening or early closing, students are expected to report to their classes for any period of time that the university is open. For example, if a class runs from 9:30 – 10:45 a.m. and the university is opening late at 10 a.m., students will be expected to attend that class for its remaining time, from 10:00 – 10:45 a.m Are athletic events canceled when the university is closed? Please check umterps.com for the status of athletic events. Are performances at The Clarice canceled when the university is closed? Please check theclarice.umd.edu for the status of events at The Clarice. Does the university’s closure only apply to College Park? When the university makes a decision on its open or closed status, the university notifies other campuses who may also be affected by inclement weather, such as the Universities at Shady Grove and the USM Southern Maryland regional center. It is up to those institutions to determine their open or closed status and notify their campus community. What is the COVID-19 testing protocol during a campus closure? If the university is closed due to inclement weather on a scheduled testing day - Monday or Thursday - unvaccinated individuals will be exempt from the requirement of being tested twice weekly. For that particular weather week, they will only be required to be tested once that week. They will not be considered non-compliant; however, they must resume their normal required testing schedule the following week. Administration Alumni Association Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Management History & Mission HEOA/Consumer Information (FAQs) Maryland Merchandise MPowering the State Rankings and Fast Facts Sustainability UMD Commitment to Student Athletes Virtual Tour Visitors, Parents and Families About The University of Maryland, College Park is the state's flagship university and one of the nation's preeminent public research universities. A global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation, the university is home to more than 40,700 students, 14,000 faculty and staff, and nearly 400,000 alumni all dedicated to the pursuit of Fearless Ideas. Located just outside Washington, D.C., we discover and share new knowledge every day through our renowned research enterprise and programs in academics, the arts and athletics. And we are committed to social entrepreneurship as the nation’s first “Do Good” campus. DO GOOD Introducing The Nation's First Do Good Campus Transforming Idealism into Impact Academic Calendar Teaching & Learning Transformation Center College Park Scholars Global Maryland Honors College Libraries Majors and Minors Office of Extended Studies Provost Registrar Special Academic Programs Testudo (Student Portal) Undergraduate Catalog Academics Spanning 12 schools and colleges, Maryland offers more than 300 degree-granting programs, many of them ranked among the best in the country. Our faculty includes two Nobel laureates, three Pulitzer Prize winners, 58 members of the national academies and scores of Fulbright scholars. And our students, who include the highest achievers in the state and nation, enjoy experiences unique to our location just outside the nation’s capital, including internships, research, and leadership and service opportunities. Schools and Colleges Agriculture and Natural Resources Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts and Humanities Behavioral and Social Sciences Business (Robert H. Smith) Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences Education Engineering (A. James Clark) Graduate School Journalism (Philip Merrill) Information Studies Public Health Public Policy Undergraduate Studies Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Colleges and Schools Division of Research FIRE: The First-Year Innovation & Research Experience Innovation Gateway Research and Innovation The University of Maryland is one of the world’s premier research institutions. With our strategic location and scores of partnerships with government and businesses, UMD conducts groundbreaking research on some of the biggest challenges facing our global community, including cybersecurity and terrorism, bioengineering, public health equity, food safety and climate change. We strive to discover new knowledge and put it to work through innovation and entrepreneurship, advancing economic development and transforming lives. The newly launched Innovation Gateway will guide you to the resources, programs, partners, and spaces you need to activate and scale your fearless ideas into innovations that launch new ventures, catalyze growth, and advance economic development. College of Arts and Humanities School of Music School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center Michelle Smith Performing Arts Library School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation University of Maryland Center for Art and Knowledge at The Phillips Collection David C. Driskell Center DeVos Institute of Arts Management Galleries The Art & Learning Center at Stamp Arts At the University of Maryland, the arts, the humanities and the sciences intersect to address important societal issues and shed new light on the human experience. Our vibrant campus arts community collaborates with local and national cultural organizations such as the Phillips Collection, Kennedy Center and Folger Shakespeare Library. Student and faculty artists, designers, historians, writers and performers are exploring new media, presenting new perspectives, investigating new techniques and engaging new audiences. Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. June 4 7:30pm - 9:30pm Lopez-Gomez Returns with Tower, Ravel & Mussorgsky Intercollegiate Athletics University of Maryland Golf Course University Recreation and Wellness Athletics Home of the Terrapins, the University of Maryland has one of the nation’s most recognizable and successful athletics programs. More than 550 student-athletes compete each year in 20 intercollegiate sports—12 for women and eight for men. Since 2005 alone, Maryland has won 19 national championships, including NCAA titles in women’s basketball, men’s soccer, men's lacrosse, women’s lacrosse, and field hockey. Since joining the Big Ten Conference in 2014, UMD has won a combined 32 regular season and tournament championships. Fear the Turtle! Our Commitment to Student-Athletes At the University of Maryland, our commitment to the safety and well-being of our students is paramount and resolute. For our student-athletes, that means both on and off the field. The University of Maryland is committed to accountability, transparency, and fairness and is working to ensure our program upholds the values of our University. Learn more about our commitment. Book Center Career Center Counseling Center Dining Services Fraternity and Sorority Life Health Center Memorial Chapel Off-Campus Housing Resident Life Stamp Student Union Student Affairs Student Clubs Transportation Services University Recreation and Wellness Student Life The Terp experience extends beyond classrooms, labs and studios. It encompasses residence halls and dining halls, clubs and sports, fraternities and sororities, campus events and performances, and countless off-campus destinations. Maryland touts 800-plus student organizations, dozens of prestigious living and learning communities, and countless other ways to get involved. Students here can create a unique identity and grow as individuals, even as they’re part of a close-knit and diverse community. Latest information on Coronavirus Calendar Directories Map On Campus Keep Learning! Earn credits, satisfy a major requirement, and stay on track for graduation. Classes meet on campus or online. Convenient 3 or 6-week sessions, May 31 - August 19, 2022. Read More UMD Reflects / University Gathers Resources, Provides Updates And Takes Action To Combat Hate Read More Campus Alerts Campus Calendar Resources for News Media Terp Magazine UMD Right Now We Are UMD Weather Alerts News & Events News Latest news at Maryland Today For media releases visit UMD Right Now Coronavirus Updates: We have worked diligently to develop and enhance plans for reopening our campus while prioritizing the health and safety of our community members. Hundreds of faculty, staff and students have collaborated in work-groups and teams to create and maintain a physically distant, yet academically and socially rich environment for the fall semester. Our plans continue to be coordinated with state and county health officials, with additional guidance provided by the University System of Maryland. Latest 4 Maryland Updates Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. All Events Admissions Terps are bold, smart, curious and proud. We do good, in our communities and out in the world. We are fearless. And we are always looking to expand our ranks. Interested in becoming a University of Maryland student? This is where to start. Undergraduate Admissions Requirements Frequently Asked Questions 90+ Undergraduate Majors Graduate Admissions Admissions Process Graduate Programs Financial Aid Visit Contact Us Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Human Resources Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support Giving to Maryland Give to Maryland Giving back is a fearless Terp tradition, and there are many ways you can not only keep it alive, but also make an instant impact. Give Now Support the Clark Challenge for the Maryland Promise Scholarship and double your impact through the Clark Challenge. University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland College Park, MD 20742, USA · 301.405.1000 Information for Visitors, Parents and Families FAQs (HEOA/Consumer Information) Contact Us Careers Issues Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Web Accessibility Policies and Procedures Public Records Request Privacy Notice Report Fraud and Waste MPowering the State ×