Skip to main content Menu & Search Enter your keywords Search About Mission University History Facts & Figures Leadership Visit Campus Office of the Chancellor Office of the Provost Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Colleges & Departments Institutes & Centers Internships, Co-ops & Careers Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Campus Visits & Events Paying for College Research About UM-Dearborn Research Resources for Researchers Campus Life Get Involved Health & Wellness Working & Studying Housing Athletics Beyond Campus News For Media Faculty Experts Guide Events UM-Dearborn Home Students Faculty & Staff Business & Community Alumni Apply Giving Browse A-Z Congrats to you! Go Blue! Celebrate the amazing Class of 2022. Go Blue! Go Dearborn! See the big day Go Beyond the Meme Established adults can help Generation Z create pathways to success. Here’s how Moving Bike Safety Research Forward Funded by a NSF CAREER Award, Professor Fred Feng looks to AI, data, drones and more to yield discoveries for safer streets. Learn more Breadcrumb Home University of Michigan-Dearborn University of Michigan-Dearborn We hail from every corner of the region, state, nation and world, coming together to shape leaders who address the complex challenges facing southeast Michigan and beyond. We prepare students to be Difference Makers in industry and in the community—long before they graduate. And we’re addressing challenges to the region head-on through pioneering research, strategic partnerships and civic engagement. COVID-19 Updates Learn more about all COVID-19 and campus precautions on the UM-Dearborn COVID-19 Response website. Future Students Get a Michigan degree with a Dearborn drivetrain. Our students, faculty and staff are working together to transform Michigan and change the world. You can be a part of that, while earning the degree that will make a difference in your life and jumpstart your career. Apply Now Paying for College Find your Major Campus Visits & Events Current News More News 04/26/2022 Provost and executive vice chancellor for academic affairs announced An authentic believer of the “Mission First - People Always” philosophy, Professor Gabriella Scarlatta has served UM-Dearborn for 25 years — including the last year as the interim provost and executive vice chancellor for academic affairs. Her official app... 04/20/2022 Class of Spring 2022: CEHHS graduate Danté Russell The aspiring teacher is completing his college journey 25 years after it started.... 04/20/2022 Actuarial Mathematics program offers rewards when it comes to risk Students in UM-Dearborn’s Actuarial Mathematics program, which began in 2019, find success in passing rigorous industry exams and landing actuary internship opportunities.... 04/18/2022 Class of Spring 2022: CECS graduate Reem Omer The Yemeni American bioengineering and mechanical engineering graduate talks about breaking boundaries on her terms.... Upcoming Events Jun 9 College of Business Virtual Graduate Information Session Thursday, June 9 12:00 pm -1:00 pm More Events Dearborn Flint Ann Arbor 4901 Evergreen Rd Dearborn, MI 48128, US 313-583-6330 Contact us Facebook Instagram Linkedin Twitter YouTube Maps & Directions My UM-Dearborn Bookstore Canvas Emergency Information Employment Library U-M Google Mail Wolverine Access © 2022 The Regents of the University of Michigan Privacy Policy Login