Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About UMPD Office of the Chief Our Officers Administrative Staff Security Partnerships/Memberships Student Ambassadors Student Government Advisory Board Careers at UMPD Campus Safety Frequently Asked Questions Common Crimes Clery Crime Advisories Sexual Assault Substance Abuse Suicide Prevention Safety Publications Services and Programs Report a Crime Contact Us UMPD Employee Portal About UMPD Campus Safety Services and Programs Report a Crime Contact Us UMPD Employee Portal Search Campus Safety Frequently Asked Questions Common Types of Crime Clery Crime Advisories Sexual Assault Info Substance Abuse Suicide Prevention UMPD Publications and Brochures About UMPD Office of the Chief Our Officers Administrative Staff Security Partnerships/Memberships Student Ambassadors Student Government Advisory Board Careers at UMPD Campus Safety Frequently Asked Questions Common Crimes Clery Crime Advisories Sexual Assault Substance Abuse Suicide Prevention Safety Publications Services and Programs Report a Crime Contact Us UMPD Employee Portal Campus Safety Frequently Asked Questions Common Types of Crime Clery Crime Advisories Sexual Assault Info Substance Abuse Suicide Prevention UMPD Publications and Brochures RELATED LINKS Fire Safety Information About UMPD Campus Safety Services and Programs Report a Crime Contact Us Home Campus Safety AAA Campus Safety Information Campus Safety Frequently Asked Questions Common Types of Crime Clery Crime Advisories Sexual Assault Info Substance Abuse Suicide Prevention UMPD Publications and Brochures RELATED LINKS Fire Safety Information UMPD works hard to prevent crimes on campus. We ask that you take an active role in your personal safety and the security of your property. The information and links we have provided in this section are intended to help you learn to stay safe and to keep your possessions secure. By utilizing these steps to protect yourself and your property, you will reduce the probability of experiencing one of the more common types of campus crimes. In addition to staying well informed, using common sense, and practicing good safety habits, we also ask that you make full use of our many services and programs. A full listing of these programs can be found on our Services and Programs page. Please bear in mind, the safety tips and information found here are considered general guidelines for evaluating your safety and security in any given situation. If you would like more information on a particular subject/type of crime, or if you don't see information pertaining to a specific subject, please contact our Crime Prevention Unit by calling 305-284-1105. Crime Prevention & Personal Property Why should I keep my personal property securely locked and with me at all times? 50-80% of all crime on campus each month involves the theft of unattended or unsecured property. The simple solution: your property must be securely locked or kept under your watchful eye at all times. Most victims of theft cite that they just left their property for “one minute” in a public area. This creates the opportunity for thieves to easily steal property. Security 101: The Short Course While police and security departments are responsible for ensuring that our campuses are as safe as possible, the primary responsibility for crime prevention and personal safety rests with each individual. Anti-Theft Tips Keep your dorm room or office door closed and locked at all times. Do not prop doors open. Anchor valuable office equipment or make use of a safe when possible. Maintain on file serial numbers of all equipment. Copy all important papers and cards that are in your purse or wallet. Personal Safety in Your Car Always keep your car doors locked. Never give strangers a ride. Check the back seat before entering a car. Keep your vehicle properly maintained. Have at least a quarter-tank of gas. Put valuables in the trunk, not on the seats. Always have a good spare tire and a jack. If you break down, wait with your vehicle and call AAA or the police. Don’t accept a ride with a stranger. If you feel that you’re being followed, drive toward a well-lit public area, preferably a place with many people. Keep a copy of your vehicle registration at home; keep the original in your vehicle. Personal Safety in Your Dorm or at Home Keep shades down and windows and doors locked. Use your peephole before opening the door. Take a self-defense course and maintain proficiency. Don’t leave a spare key outside. If you receive an obscene phone call, hang up immediately. If it repeats, call police. Use only initials on mailboxes and in telephone directories. Make sure the exterior of your home is well lit and trees/foliage are well maintained. Personal Safety Away from Home Walk, exercise, and park in well-lit areas. Carry your keys in hand so that you’re ready to enter your car or building. Be aware of your surroundings and the people around you. Don’t wear excessive amounts of jewelry. Use a waist pack rather than a purse. Avoid ATMs in secluded or dark locations. Avoid working or studying after hours in public areas. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 UM Police Department 5665 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Flipse Building, Room 110 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-6666 305-284-6666 Resources About UM UM News and Events CaneLink Academic Calendar People Search UM Network Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices