Office of Admissions Secured Documents Upload Home You may only upload one file at a time. Your file cannot be open. Your file must be in .PDF, .JPEG, .TIFF, .BMP, or .GIF format and may not exceed 10MB. Filenames of uploaded documents MUST ONLY INCLUDE alpha-numeric characters and no spaces (the following characters are disallowed in the filename: !, @, #, $, %, ^, &, *, (, ), +, =, ‘, “). For identification, please provide the email address you used when you submitted your application. Any file uploaded to this site that does not adhere to the filename/filetype restrictions indicated in the statements above cannot be opened/read and therefore will not be accepted. First Name: Last Name: Email: Document Type --Select-- International High School Transcript International Diploma International Final Examination Scores Credential Evaluation English Proficiency Score Report Passport Copy of Visa, EVEA Document US High School Transcript US College Transcript Residency Document Other Please choose a file: Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.