Skip to Main Content UNC News Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Toggle Menu Home Resources Contact Media Guidelines Maps ↗ Facts and Figures Multimedia Library↗ Campus Film Guidelines Archives↗ Public Records Experts Open Meetings Open Meeting Calendar Board of Trustees ↗ Submit a Meeting Request Contact Media Relations Home Resources Contact Media Guidelines Maps ↗ Facts and Figures Multimedia Library↗ Campus Film Guidelines Archives↗ Public Records Experts Open Meetings Open Meeting Calendar Board of Trustees ↗ Submit a Meeting Request Contact Media Relations Close Main Navigation Menu Carolina Newsroom Latest news from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill University Stories UNC-Chapel Hill receives $65M from NIH for antiviral drug development center The new center will develop antivirals that could combat future pandemic-level viruses UNC-Chapel Hill Board of Trustees select 57 new members for the UNC-Chapel Hill Board of Visitors The 57 new members of the Class of 2026 begin their terms this summer Three UNC-Chapel Hill faculty elected as members of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences UNC-Chapel Hill researchers find significant health benefits to air pollution reduction policies in NYC Reinventing modern dental education A $5 million gift to the UNC Adams School of Dentistry integrates career preparation and leadership training in the school’s new curriculum UNC-Chapel Hill graduate programs ranked among best in nation Carolina experts: Escalating Russian aggression, sanctions Read more UNC News stories Carolina Experts From voting irregularities and political analysis to the latest in biomedical engineering or criminal justice, our experts can provide insight on breaking news, ongoing developments and emerging research in their area of expertise. View more faculty experts Mary-Rose Papandrea is a professor at the UNC School of Law. Her expertise is in constitutional law and the courts. She is able to share insights about document leaks and the inner workings of the U.S. Supreme court having clerked for Associate Justice David H. Souter. Learn more Rebecca J. Kreitzer is available to discuss how public policy and politics impact timely discussions around abortion and Roe v. Wade legislation. An associate professor of public policy and an adjunct associate professor of political science at Carolina, Prof. Kreitzer’s research focuses on gender, political representation, political inequality, and public policy in the U.S. Additionally, she is an expert on contraception. Learn more Graeme Robertson is a Professor of Political Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Director of the Center for Slavic, Eurasian and East European Studies. His work focuses on political protest and regime support in authoritarian regimes. Learn more Carolina in the News UNC-Chapel Hill researchers receive federal grant to help stave off another pandemic News & Observer Coronavirus hasn’t developed resistance to Paxlovid. How long can that last? Stat News UNC School of Public Health Receives $65 Million Grant for Antiviral Discovery Center Chapelboro Is Online Presence a Turnoff? The Atlantic UNC.edu Contact Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram © 2022 UNC News