Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Getting Started Home First Steps Invest time in thinking about how getting involved in research can complement your academic goals. Work with Cornell advisors to plan when to engage in research and how to gain the most from the experience. Types of Positions Students at Cornell are involved in research in a number of different capacities and at different levels. Academic Credit Many students earn credit for undergraduate research they do at Cornell during the academic year. Credit is not given for research done off-campus, unless it is done with a Cornell professor who is working off-campus. Research Funding Undergraduates involved in faculty research sometimes receive academic credit, sometimes receive pay, and occasionally volunteer their time. Your personal interests, time, and the options a researcher can offer are key factors as you seek a position. Recognition for Research Latin honors (cum, magna, etc.) differs among colleges. Fellowships and awards are an excellent way to gain recognition for research achievement. Look at applications for awards within Cornell and nationally. Student Clubs & Related Groups There are a number of student organizations with a focus on undergraduate research. Student-run, with faculty mentors, these organizations provide peer and faculty advice, leadership and writing experience, and annual opportunities to present research. Troubleshooting Students leave their research for a variety of reasons, such as change in research interests, not enough time in their schedule, or if the dynamics between their advisor or lab group just aren’t right. First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting Contact Us Office of Undergraduate ResearchWorking Remotely in 2021Cornell UniversityIthaca, NY 14853 Email undergradresearch@cornell.edu Research by the Numbers 4000 Cornell students who earned credit for their research efforts in 2019 27% Undergraduates who earned credit for participating in research during the course of their study at Cornell during the 2019 academic year 15-25 The number of hours a typical senior science major spends each week in the lab while participating in a faculty-led research project 3-5 The average number of books read each week by a humanities major participating in a faculty-led research project First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting next previous Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.