Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Outside the Classroom Outcomes In the professional and postgraduate landscape of the 21st century, it’s tempting to define successful outcomes in quantifiable terms—from competitive job placements and impressive starting salaries to elite graduate program acceptances. At Columbia, we’re mindful of these metrics, too, and we’re always proud to see our students go into the world to pursue all the continued success that awaits them. But we are equally mindful of outcomes that are less tangible—but perhaps more important. Developing the character, curiosity, initiative and engaged citizenship that are the true hallmarks of a Columbia education. Four years of growth. A lifetime of perspective. Through the century-old Core Curriculum, and in more recent concepts like Engineering for Humanity and My Columbia College Journey, there is an emphasis on reflection, connection and a search for deeper understanding that is at the heart of the Columbia experience. It manifests in the ways we engage with the city and the world around us. In the hands-on, experiential emphasis of our learning environment. In the depth of the relationships that our students form around seminar and dining tables, on playing fields, in residential lounges. However your time at Columbia unfolds, and wherever your path leads you next, we hope you will find it was time well spent - four years as part of a community rooted in immersive discourse and the pursuit of deeper meaning. You’ll go forward into the world with the avid curiosity to ask life’s big questions—as well as the wisdom and the resolve to find your own answers. The Core Curriculum Engineering for Humanity My Columbia College Journey Being Here Where do Columbians go after Morningside Heights? What matters most to Columbia is the citizens and individuals our students become. But they grow into truly impressive scholars and professionals, creators and visionaries as well. Graduate School Columbia University Stanford University Harvard University Massachusetts Institute of Technology University of Oxford Yale University New York University University of Cambridge University of Pennsylvania Carnegie Mellon University Top Industries Internet & Software Journalism, Media & Publishing Civil Engineering Legal Portfolio management Higher education Healthcare Management consulting Government Research Environmental Services Nonprofit Top Organizations Fulbright U.S. Student Program Google, Inc. Columbia University Hospital for Special Surgery Goldman Sachs Microsoft Accenture L'Oréal Scholastic McKinsey & Company Morgan Stanley Top Roles Finance Consulting Web & Software Engineering Product & Product Management Civil & Mechanical Engineering Legal Data & Analytics Education & Teaching Research Advertising, Media & PR Image Ready to see where Columbia Blue might take you? A Columbia education leads to some truly remarkable places. How far will you go? Whose lives will you touch? We can’t wait to find out. Begin your application for admission In This Section Advising Research Internships Global Experiences Outcomes Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube