Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Undergraduate Programs About Undergraduate Programs Stanford offers a wide range of programs throughout the academic year and summer. Programs Introductory Seminars Introductory Seminars offer you the opportunity to work with faculty who are experts in their fields with classmates who are equally passionate about the topic. Program in Writing and Rhetoric Learn more about your first- and second-year writing requirements and opportunities. Education as Self-Fashioning Education as Self-Fashioning is a unique opportunity offered only in the autumn quarter, since its aim is to introduce entering students to a liberal education. Ways of Thinking/Ways of Doing Hundreds of courses manifest the eight WAYS across a broad range of subjects and disciplines. As the breadth component of Stanford's General Education, these courses complement the depth of study in your major. Leland Scholars Planning to study in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) or pre-health fields? Leland Scholars was created to help you with the transition to college for these fields. Frosh 101 / Transfer 101 / Sophomore 101 Frosh 101 / Transfer 101 is a discussion style course designed to support first-year and transfer students' transition to Stanford’s dynamic campus. Sophomore College Sophomore College is a three-week residential summer program during which second-year students in seminars of 12-15 students engage in intense academic exploration. Arts Intensive Think you can’t possibly fit an arts class into your schedule? Arts Intensive allows you the opportunity to study in an arts discipline during a three-week summer program Bing Honors College Bing Honors College (BHC) is a three-week program in early September for students actively engaged in researching and drafting their honors theses. Bing Overseas Study Program You should give serious consideration to studying overseas. Regardless of the academic path you choose, you will be enriched by time spent in another country. Community Engaged Learning The Community Engaged Learning team is a partnership between the Haas Center for Public Service and the Center for Teaching and Learning (Vice Provost of Undergraduate Education). Stanford in New York Ever wonder how the art world functions behind the scenes? Interested in the architecture and design of one of the great cities of the world? Would you like to experience firsthand how nonprofit and governmental organizations confront some of our most pressing urban issues? Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.