Skip to content College of Undergraduate Studies Main Menu About UsMenu Toggle Vision, Mission and Goals Faculty and Staff Contact Us AcademicsMenu Toggle Interdisciplinary Studies Academic Services AwardsMenu Toggle LIFE Grants and Awards Program Scholarships RequirementsMenu Toggle Civic Literacy Diversity Requirement General Education Program (GEP) Gordon Rule FacultyMenu Toggle Associate Deans Executive Council (ADEC) General Undergraduate Requirements Committee Undergraduate Studies Executive Council (USEC) Textbook Adoption Undergraduate Articulation Agreements General Education Program (GEP) Giving College of Undergraduate Studies Excellence Students with diverse talents and backgrounds have the opportunity to study multiple disciplines They learn to do, to create, to learn, and to succeed. Innovation Students who major in Interdisciplinary Studies have the opportunity to create a course of study that prepares them to be successful. Distinction The College of Undergraduate Studies collaborates with colleges and units across UCF to create this exceptional educational experience. Interdisciplinary Studies Interdisciplinary Studies offers several majors, minors, and certificates that incorporate a broader scope of curricula than traditional disciplinary academic programs. Each of our degree programs offers students an opportunity to tailor their curriculum to best reflect their interests and needs. Learn More Academic Services Academic Services helps students navigate the state of Florida’s and the University of Central Florida’s policies pertaining to academic record changes, curriculum file management, degree audits, and university-wide undergraduate graduation requirements. Learn More The results are in, and the University of Central Florida’s fully online programs have been included in the Top 10 Best Online Bachelor’s Programs in the nation by U.S. News & World Report, coming in at No. 7! That makes five years in a row that UCF’s online programs have been included in the Top 20 rankings. Interdisciplinary Studies offers degree programs through UCF Online: Integrative General Studies (BGS), Interdisciplinary Studies (BA/BS), and Interdisciplinary Studies – Diversity Studies Track (BA). Daniela Garcia, ’21, is a first-generation college student and transferred to UCF from Valencia College as part of the DirectConnect to UCF program. She majored in Interdisciplinary Studies in Education and Portuguese and also achieved a minor in Political Science. In this video, part of a Season 3 episode of The College Tour dedicated to UCF, Daniela discusses the impact of a college degree. Upcoming Events Jun 1 12:00 am Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy Participants in the Summer Research Academy will: Learn about the nature of university research and how it can expand your undergraduate experience. Meet with research faculty and other students active in research. Explore research opportunities available to undergraduate students at UCF. Prepare professionally for… Jun 1 12:00 am Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy Summer Research Academy (SRA) is a fast-paced, 3-day event in July. It is a 1-credit course (IDS 3913) that runs during Summer B term, but most of the work will be completed during the event in July. SRA is ideal for… Jun 2 9:30 am PHPL Drop-In Advising Drop-In Advising – Fr, Soph, Jr, Sr, & Alumni: Do you have a quick question? Visit the Pre-Health and Pre-Law Advising office via Zoom during our virtual drop-in hours or IN-PERSON during our in office walk-in hours where you will… College of Undergraduate Studies us@ucf.edu 407.823.2373 Millican Hall 210 4365 Andromeda Loop North Orlando, FL 32816-0086 Excellence, Innovation, and Distinction ✦ Copyright © 2022 Division of Student Learning and Academic Success | College of Undergraduate Studies The University of Central Florida is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, master’s, specialist, and doctoral levels. Questions about the accreditation of UCF may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).