Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home How to Apply Ready to find out where Columbia Blue might take you? Here, you’ll find all the resources you need to understand the admissions process and to get ready to build a complete, authentic and compelling application. We look forward to getting to know you. Announcements We encourage prospective applicants to review the information we've gathered to address questions and concerns about the 2021-2022 application cycle. Admissions Application Due Early Decision: November 1 Regular Decision: January 1 Financial Aid Application Due Early Decision: November 15 Regular Decision: February 15 I want information for: First-Year Applicants Apply to Columbia College or Columbia Engineering. Transfer Applicants We welcome over 100 transfer students each year. Combined Plan Applicants Receive a B.A. in Liberal Arts and a B.S. in Engineering. Visiting Students Broaden your undergraduate experience. International Applicants Columbia students hail from every corner of the world. Undocumented/DACA Students Homeschooled Students QuestBridge Counselors Columbia-Juilliard Program Parents & Guardians None of the above? No problem. You can still apply to Columbia—just apply through these other undergraduate programs instead. Sciences Po Dual BA Program Tel Aviv University Dual BA Program Trinity College Dublin Dual BA Program Barnard College School of General Studies School of Professional Studies alumni: This is a time to discover who you are and who you want to become. It is an exciting adventure. Take a deep breath. Let it out. Relax. Begin. Enjoy. Jessica Marinaccio Dean of Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid Quick Links Affordability & Aid Understanding our Process Life at Columbia Academics Outcomes How to Apply FAQs What is Columbia looking for when evaluating students for admission? What are the criteria for admission? The Columbia University first-year class of College and Engineering students is chosen from a large and diverse group of applicants. Columbia employs a holistic approach in assessing candidates in order to evaluate which students are the best matches for Columbia's unique educational experience. In the process of selection, the Committee on Admissions considers each applicant's academic potential, intellectual strength and ability to think independently. The Committee also considers the general attitudes and character of the applicant, special abilities and interests, maturity, motivation, curiosity and whether they are likely to make productive use of the four years at Columbia. In its final selection, Columbia seeks diversity of personalities, achievements and talents, and of economic, social, ethnic, cultural, religious, racial and geographic backgrounds. Should I apply Early Decision? If Columbia is your first-choice school—and you are willing to make a binding commitment to attend if admitted—we encourage you to consider applying Early Decision. Learn more about the Early Decision process. How do I apply for financial aid? The financial aid application process collects information about your family's income, assets, family composition and other circumstances. All requirements are detailed on the financial aid office website. May I apply to both Columbia College and Columbia Engineering? No. Applicants to Columbia must choose either Columbia College or Columbia Engineering. See all FAQs Image What matters to Columbia is your ability—not your ability to pay. The Columbia experience is open to individuals from every imaginable background. In fact, it depends upon them—and the diverse perspectives they bring to our campus. Explore Affordability & Aid Being here Being at Columbia feels like being at the center of everything. It’s a beautiful, walkable campus in a comfortable, welcoming residential neighborhood, tucked away in a corner of one of the world’s greatest cities. Explore Columbia Image A proud tradition of intellectual exploration Columbia has been a place of deep intellectual curiosity and wide-ranging academic inquiry since 1754. Across departments, schools, centers and institutes, Columbians at every level are driven by an abiding passion for discovery. Columbia College Columbia Engineering Visit Whether you want to get to know the neighborhood in person or from the comfort of your own home, we’ve got you covered. Plan your visit Our Community Columbia is home to a vibrant, curious, welcoming community of students and faculty, drawn together from every walk of life and corner of the world. Meet our community FAQs Whether it’s finding the right program for you or navigating the application and financial aid process, we’ve got the answers you need. Explore FAQs Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube