Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Opportunities & Research Opportunities & Research Stanford offers you a wide array of opportunities which will enrich your academic life and help you personalize your education. Here is a guide to some of the important offerings you should consider during your undergraduate career. Opportunities by Area Research and Independent Projects One of the best ways to sharpen your intellectual interests is through research or an independent project. Learn more about how you can take part in the Stanford tradition of inquiry, investigation, and discovery. Fellowships Fellowships and scholarships can provide you with financial support for undergraduate, graduate, and professional study, as well as internships, travel, and mentoring opportunities. Awards and Graduation Honors You can be awarded for your academic, research or writing excellence. Arts There are many opportunities for you to participate in arts communities during your time at Stanford, including fine arts, dance, drama, creative writing, music, media and film. Overseas & Off-Campus Stanford University offers you a variety of off-campus opportunities to enrich and diversify your undergraduate experience. Leadership Whether you believe leaders are born or made, Stanford provides numerous opportunities for you to develop leadership skills. Public & Community Service Stanford offers you a wide variety of public and community service opportunities, ranging from on-campus courses to off-campus research to community-based leadership projects. Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Diversity Outreach at Stanford offers internships, fellowships and exchange programs, as well as other unique opportunities. Graduate & Professional School Advisors and advising resources are available to you to help you understand general concepts about graduate and professional schools. Explore the opportunities available and discern which path is right for you. Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.