Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Research Opportunities Home Cross-Institutional Initiatives Cornell is an amazing place with lots of opportunities to get involved in undergraduate research! There are colleges, there are schools and there are departments. In addition, there are institutes and centers that cross-college boundaries and can be great places to look for research opportunities. Academic Year Opportunities This page will list research opportunities that happen during the academic year. This list will change as new opportunities come in, so bookmark this page and come by frequently. You may find the perfect opportunity listed here. Summer Opportunities Summer is an excellent time to get involved in research, or to learn new research skills and systems. There are hundreds of summer research programs in the US and abroad, as well as opportunities to work with individual faculty. Weill Medical Opportunities Weill Medical School in New York is an excellent place to look for a summer research opportunity. They host a number of summer programs for students interested in bio-medical research, and individual faculty host students in their labs. Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities New! Humanities Undergraduate Research InstituteThis Institute is a collaboration between the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education, the Cornell Libraries, and faculty in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Writ 2100 provides training in research skills and support for development of a research proposal. Research by the Numbers 2800 Cornell students who earned credit for their research efforts in 2011 17% Undergraduates who earned credit for participating in research during the course of their study at Cornell during the 2011-12 academic year 10-15 The number of hours a typical senior science major spends each week in the lab while participating in a faculty-led research project 3 The average weekly reading load for a humanities major participating in a faculty-led research project Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities next previous Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.