Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help Buckeye Link Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search Search Undergraduate Admissions GO Search Majors + academics Majors + academics Majors Undecided? More ways to explore majors Academic communities Resume builders Guidance and preparation Quick facts Life on campus Life on campus Get active, get involved We love Columbus Find support Residence halls Rich diversity Spirit and tradition Cost + aid Cost + aid The Ohio State value Basic costs Financial aid Merit-based scholarships Visit Apply Apply Freshmen – Columbus Freshmen – Regional Transfer students International freshmen International transfer students Veterans DACA students Additional types of applicants Regional campuses Regional campuses Your future starts here Admission Ohio State Lima Ohio State Mansfield Ohio State Marion Ohio State Newark Ohio State CFAES Wooster Contact us Close Search Visit To know us is to love us. And there's no better way to get to know Ohio State than to visit. Visit Print Email Visit campus Experience Columbus COVID-19 update for visits and events Campus tours for prospective students have resumed and do fill quickly. There also continues to be lots of virtual ways to learn about Ohio State — check out the schedule of live events and other resources just for future Buckeyes and future transfer students. Read our FAQ for visits. Visit campus Schedule a visit to campus to hear about the Ohio State experience from current students, see our amazing facilities, and learn the nuts and bolts of admission. Experience Columbus Visit Ohio State's Experience Columbus website for great tips on where to go and what to do in Cbus. Let Ohio State come to you! Register for live events and dig into resources for future Buckeyes. The Ohio State University © 2022, Undergraduate Admissions | Office of Student Academic Success | Student Academic Services Building | 281 W. Lane Ave., Columbus, OH 43210 Webmaster | Nondiscrimination notice | Annual Security Report SELECT STUDENT TYPE Incoming freshmen Transfer students International students Veterans High school counselors Parents VISIT APPLY CONTACT