Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Summer Bridge Programs All summer program participants will be required to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 unless religious or medical exemptions have been granted. For more information, visit the COVID-19 vaccine FAQs. Welcome! Our summer bridge programs aim to facilitate the transition from high school to Stanford. There are a variety of opportunities, including online courses and community based programs. Options for Summer Bridge Programs Leland Scholars Program (LSP) The Leland Scholars Program (LSP) facilitates the transition to college for incoming Stanford frosh who may be the first in their families to attend college, attended under-resourced high schools, or are from low-income backgrounds. Stanford Summer Engineering Academy (SSEA) SSEA is a fully-funded, four-week summer program that welcomes a cohort of incoming first-year students from across the country and worldwide every August for a dynamic, fully integrated academic and community experience. Stanford Online Academic Resources (SOAR) Stanford Online Academic Resources (SOAR) offers two online courses over five weeks in foundational mathematics and writing to prepare incoming students for further mathematics and writing courses at Stanford. Find the Summer Bridge Programs FAQ LSP taught me the importance of accepting that I do belong at Stanford and should be proud of my FLI background. I was able to find a loving community who shared many of my struggles and fears coming into Stanford. LSP empowered me and gave me access to resources I would have struggle to find. Through LSP I learned what it means to have a home away from home. —Kevin Longoria, LSP VII "SSEA has been transformative for me. Coming into SSEA, I was really apprehensive about engineering and the amount of competition here. But everyone so far has been super collaborative. Especially the professors. It’s amazing to see how qualified these individuals are, and how willing they are to engage with people who are not at their level yet, but are trying to get there." —Hannah Leou, Stanford Summer Engineering Academy “I would recommend SOAR particularly for students whose high school mathematics may have not laid great foundations in trig and precalculus. These foundations are utilized routinely in Math 19-21 and having some fluidity with them sure makes life easier and helped me follow along in the lectures (or at least not get hung up on foundational knowledge I should have known).” Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.