Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Life at Columbia Student Wellness At Columbia, we understand that health and wellness are essential in achieving and sustaining success in any of life’s spheres—personal, social, academic and professional. We also recognize that wellness is multifaceted and interrelated, encapsulating the physical as well as the mental, the emotional and the psychological. Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Life at Columbia Learning to care for yourself and the people around you—and knowing how, when and where to seek support when you need it—is one of the most important lessons of the college experience. From a wide range of medical and mental health resources, to a comprehensive network of public safety programs, our students enjoy the support they need as they explore our campus and our city, and become more capable, responsible and independent individuals. Live Well | Learn Well Columbia University is dedicated to creating a campus culture that values and promotes individual well-being and a healthy community for undergraduates. Through Live Well | Learn Well, Columbia offers integrated resources focused on important aspects of your overall well-being including intellectual, physical, relational, career, financial, emotional and spiritual health. Columbia Health Columbia Health advances the health of the Columbia community, as well as the personal and academic development of our students. The Columbia Health team consists of more than 150 medical providers, including therapists and disability specialists, nutritionists, peer counselors and support staff—all of whom work to deliver integrated services and programs that cultivate the best possible outcomes for those in our community. From comprehensive clinical services, to resources on a range of health topics, to a robust calendar of workshops, informative lectures, Stressbuster sessions and awareness events, Columbia Health is our community’s one-stop shop for all things wellness. Public Safety If you’ve never visited New York City before, it’s normal to have concerns or to feel a bit anxious about things like personal safety. Once you’ve experienced the city, though, you’ll realize it’s an incredible collection of neighborhoods and people who often want to enjoy many of the same experiences you do. Nevertheless, we take Public Safety very seriously at Columbia, and Morningside Heights is one of the safest neighborhoods in New York City. You’ll find Blue Light Emergency Call Boxes throughout campus. We have security desks in every residence hall. We offer a Lion Safe App, a Campus Escort program and on-demand evening shuttles. We also created the Red Lion Safe Haven Program with 130+ participating businesses dedicated to helping any Columbia student who needs it, any time of the day or night. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Having a broad representation of perspectives - in our residence halls, our labs and classrooms, and across our campus - is critical to our culture. Learn more Advising Columbians have a community of support: learn about the network of advisers at Columbia that invests in your success both inside and outside the classroom Learn more Students & Faculty Students and faculty come from every corner of the world to engage and explore, and to create a better world. Learn more Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube