Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Outside the Classroom A Columbia education unfolds outside of the classroom as much as it does inside. From research opportunities alongside field-leading faculty to internships and global experiences that span industries and world locales, Columbia students travel paths that lead from our Morningside Heights campus to the far-flung reaches of the globe. The possibilities are limitless—and whichever paths you choose, you’ll find they lead to amazing places. fact: $1 million+ awarded in spring 2019 for unpaid or low-paid internships, research and volunteer opportunities fact: 1000s of internships offered through the Center for Career Education fact: 150+ study abroad programs offered through the Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement fact: $1 billion in annual research conducted in the sciences, humanities and social sciences Image Research that matters. As a Columbia undergraduate, you’ll be an essential part of one of the finest research institutions in the world. Here, you can engage with pioneers in their field who are working at the frontiers of knowledge at more than 200 research centers, institutes and labs, across campus, across the city and beyond. Explore research opportunities Internships that inspire. From on-campus recruiting events and industry showcase series to alumni mentorship and overseas experiences, Columbia students gain the skills, perspectives and experiences they need to clarify their vision and chart a course into the professional world that’s all their own. Explore internships Image student: As a Laidlaw Scholar, Mellon Mays Fellow, and through my internship supported by the Summer Earnings Grant, I have been able to dive deeper into issues of political response to migration, societal integration of migrants, and other meaningful opportunities to engage with the communities I care most about. Astrid L. Eden Prairie, MN Political Science and Latin American & Caribbean Studies To learn with the world, and from it. Global learning and engagement are vital components of a Columbia education. The Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement (UGE) works with units across the university to support exciting academic and co-curricular opportunities including study abroad, global internships, service-learning, research and more. Explore global engagement Image A little guidance goes a long way. Columbia students are guided by faculty and staff advisers who are committed to the craft of teaching and mentorship—and who represent some of the brightest minds from across the country and around the world. Explore advising Meet Our Community student: Professors that are both world-renowned and accessible to undergraduates: "During my first semester at Columbia, Professor Gulati invited members of my Economics class to a series of lunches with him. The conversation was the best part. We were able to connect as classmates while getting to know our professor on a more personal level." Scout B. Wooster, AR Economics, Concentration in Sustainable Development student: Learning beyond the classroom at Columbia: "I got involved with biology research during the summer following my first year at Columbia. I worked in the Kelley Lab on frog behavior and vocalizations, and I had the chance to present my research at an undergraduate research symposium the following winter. I learned so much from my peers and supervisors in the lab." Riley S. Port Saint Lucie, FL Psychology student: Learning beyond the classroom at Columbia: "I've done research in the Carleton Civil Engineering Lab. I was able to learn more about material test strengths and the methods of determining if concrete and steel samples are up to industry standards, as well as research involving soil mechanics. It was a very enriching experience, and I also had a lot of fun!" Haya G. Beirut, Lebanon Civil Engineering, Minor in Middle Eastern, South Asian & African Studies student: Learning beyond the classroom at Columbia: "I interned this summer at the Queens District Attorney's office. I worked on a team that aimed to protect workers and tenants from fraud and workplace abuse. I found the position through my own research, but the Center for Career Education was endlessly helpful in preparation for my interviews and when speaking with the office's recruiter." Billy K. Queens, NY Comparative Literature & Society, specialization in Hispanic Studies and Hellenic Studies In This Section Advising Research Internships Global Experiences Outcomes Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube