Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Columbia College The Core Curriculum For more than 100 years, the Core Curriculum has been the defining element of a Columbia College education. It’s a communal learning experience that cultivates community-wide discourse and deliberate contemplation around seminal works, contemporary issues and humanity’s most enduring questions. Discover how the Core's transformative shared experience helps to shape an intellectual community that spans disciplines and generations. Intellectually expansive. Personally transformative. One of the distinctive features of the Core is that it is designed to transcend disciplines. It introduces cornerstone ideas and theories from across literature, philosophy, history, science and the arts, inviting your curiosity, reflection and critique, in conversation with others. In most Core classes, you’ll engage with primary works that contain some of the most significant thoughts, images and sounds created, from Homer to Toni Morrison, Plato to Gandhi, Raphael to Andy Warhol, and the composers of Gregorian Chants to Kaija Saariaho. As you collectively explore what these works mean to you as an individual, you’ll grapple with the joys and challenges of what it means to be human. Core Curriculum Art Humanities Contemporary Civilization Frontiers of Science Literature Humanities Music Humanities University Writing Core Electives Global Core Foreign Language Science Physical Education Common syllabus; uncommon experience. Studying the same works in small, discussion-style seminars, our students are taught to investigate new ideas and perspectives. It’s a learning environment where you’ll be challenged to engage meaningfully with friends and classmates who hold different opinions. When you do, you’ll become part of an intimate intellectual community that spans disciplines and interests and fosters deep, enduring friendships. Together, you’ll learn to adapt and respond to new information and revelations that can—and often will—alter and expand your worldview. fact: 22 maximum students in a Core seminar fact: 2780 years of literary and philosophical development on the Literature Humanities syllabus fact: 8 scientific habits of mind taught in Frontiers of Science fact: 100+ years since the Core Curriculum was established Lessons for a lifetime. Ultimately, the Core will help you develop intellectual tools and habits of mind you’ll use long after you leave college, enabling you to solve multidimensional problems and find answers to profound questions that might at times seem unanswerable. You’ll carry these lessons with you into the world, where you’ll join a greater conversation that binds Columbia’s present students to its past and future generations. It’s a timeless dialogue, and an approach to thinking and living that seeks to elevate society for all—and is more vital now than ever before. Quick Links History of the Core 100 Years of the Core In This Section The Core Curriculum Areas of Study My Columbia College Journey Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube