Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Research Highlights Home Research Highlights Research Spotlights Research news from across the Cornell campuses and beyond A Big Red Undergraduate Journal Victoria Alkin gathered a team of students and supporters to create CURJ, a publication dedicated to research by Cornell undergraduates. A Corollary to War Did racism and a fractured political landscape make the United States more vulnerable to COVID-19? Created with Brick, Mortar, and Amazement After having delved into the guts of 3D printers, Alexia Asgari ’22 wants to make them a genuine partner in the creative process. Field Guide to a Marvelous Education For Cornell students, fieldwork is an immersive, sometimes transformative experience that carries the thrill of discovery and seeing the world anew. Got Data? Benjamin Lehman ’21 helps dairy farmers reduce costs and their environmental footprint by maximizing homegrown corn yields. Moonlighting Proteins Brianna Johnson ’21 studies the multifunctional protein AroK and its effects on antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria. Peering through Alien Atmospheres Is anyone home? Jonathan Gomez Barrientos works on techniques to expand what we know about Earth-like exoplanets. There’s No Syllabus for This Supporting community-engaged learning at Cornell, Amber Haywood ’21 found a way to put her values into action. Tiny Spores Full of Promise Eileen Tzng, an undergraduate in the Pawlowska lab, is intent on understanding the relationship between fungal spores and the bacteria they harbor. WARNING: Parents on Social Media Three Cornell undergrads collaborated on an interdisciplinary class project in Spring 2020. The experience changed their academic trajectories. DNA Double Take From biology class to “C.S.I.,” we are told again and again that our genome is at the heart of our identity. Read the sequences in the chromosomes of a single cell, and learn everything about a person’s genetic information — or, as 23andme, a prominent genetic testing company, says on its Web site, “The more you know about your DNA, the more you know about yourself.” Scientists Capture Most Detailed Picture Yet of Key AIDS Protein Collaborating scientists at The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) and Weill Cornell Medical College have determined the first atomic-level structure of the tripartite HIV envelope protein — long considered one of the most difficult targets in structural biology and of great value for medical science's. UNCF-Merck Undergraduate Science Research Scholarship The United Negro College Fund and the Merck Company Foundation announce the availability of the UNCF/Merck Undergraduate Science Research Scholarship Awards. A History of Science: Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source Driving up Campus Road in the afternoon, you can see many varsity and club athletes practicing on Alumni Fields. But 40 feet underneath them and half a mile in circumference sits the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source. Student Profiles Research Spotlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights nextprevious Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.