Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > About Research Home Defining Research Defining research is as difficult as explaining how gravity works. We are aware of its tremendous effects, yet it’s hard to begin explaining all its complexities. Why Perform Research at Cornell? Undergraduate research is an enriching process by which you meet people, gain skills and become an active member of the university community. Student Research by the Numbers Cornell's mission is to discover, preserve, and disseminate knowledge; produce creative work; and promote a culture of broad inquiry throughout and beyond the Cornell community. See how we’re doing by the numbers. Is Research for You? Whatever the type or setting, all research is motivated by the quest to gain new knowledge. Some research is applied and may ultimately lead to the betterment of people’s lives, other research is at a basic level and can lead to a revolutionary change in in the way we think. In the Beginning: What to Consider Before you get started in "research," it is important to identify your goals and objectives. Knowing what you can learn from research will not only help you to find a great position, it will help you make the most of it. The following information should give you a few “thinking” points to consider. Research Skills Find information on the following topics: ethics and safety, statistical training, research reference and writing guides, presenting and publishing your work. Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Contact Us Office of Undergraduate ResearchCornell UniversityIthaca, NY 14853 Email undergradresearch@cornell.edu Research by the Numbers 4000 Cornell students who earned credit for their research efforts in 2019-2020 27% Undergraduates who earned credit for participating in research during the course of their study at Cornell during the 2019-20 academic year 15-20 The number of hours a typical senior science major spends each week in the lab while participating in a faculty-led research project 3-5 The average number of books read each week by a humanities major participating in a faculty-led research project Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills next previous Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.