Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Contact Us Our admissions team works hard to ensure that all of the answers to your admissions questions are available on this website, including maintaining a regularly-updated Frequently Asked Questions section. In order to get the information you need as efficiently as possible, we ask that you please consult the FAQ prior to emailing or calling our office. Please also note that we don’t track demonstrated interest, so there is no advantage or preference to be gained by contacting our office. Undergraduate Admissions mailing address All paper correspondence and mail for Undergraduate Admissions may be directed to: Columbia University in the City of New York Undergraduate Admissions 212 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Applications & admissions process For questions about undergraduate admission and the application process that are not addressed by our Frequently Asked Questions section, contact: Undergraduate Admissions Phone: 212-854-2522 Regular Business Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Eastern Time ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Please note that it may take a few days for us to respond to general email inquiries. Application materials & updates To submit supporting admission application materials that cannot be uploaded directly through your application, or to provide any updates or changes to your application, use the mailing address above or contact us by email to ugrad-confirm@columbia.edu. For email submissions, you must include your application ID and which application type you are submitting (Early Decision, Regular Decision, Transfer, Combined Plan or Visiting Student); otherwise, your submission may not be processed. We ask you to include your application type in the subject line of your message. This email address should be used only for document submission and materials-related questions. Any other messages will not be responded to and should be addressed to the other points of contact listed on this page. Please note that given the volume of documents that are received daily, we are unable to confirm individual submissions. Applicants will receive information via email about tracking their application materials. Financial Aid For questions about the financial aid process and how to finance your education at Columbia, contact: Financial Aid and Educational Financing Phone: 212-854-3711 Regular Business Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Eastern Time Fax: 212-854-5353 ugrad-finaid@columbia.edu All paper correspondence and mail for Financial Aid may be directed to: Financial Aid and Educational Financing 100 Hamilton Hall, Mail Code 2802 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Want to hear more about Columbia? Use the Request Information form to receive emails about academics at Columbia College and Columbia Engineering, undergraduate life and upcoming events. Join our mailing list Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube