Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Visit Virtual Experiences The Columbia community hails from every corner of the world—and while we’d love to see you all here for a campus visit, we know that a trip to New York City can be quite an undertaking. That’s why we’ve created this suite of virtual visit experiences: to provide an insider’s look at what it’s like to be here in person, no matter what corner of the world you’re in! Talk directly with current students for answers to all your questions, experience the energy of our campus and get a feel for the community that one day you may call home. Virtual Information Sessions Learn more about Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science from an Admissions Officer and current undergraduate. Take advantage of this opportunity to ask questions about the academic and student life experiences at Columbia, as well as the admissions application process. General Information Sessions and Introduction to Columbia Engineering sessions are available. Panels and Q&A chats Held multiple times each month, panels and chats are a great way to get a range of first-hand perspectives from current undergraduates. Take this opportunity to chat and engage with current students and learn more about the many unique and special ways that Columbia fosters community. Each event has a designated theme, such as Student Life in NYC, International Community and First Generation & Low-Income at Columbia. Virtual Campus Tour Experience Columbia’s vibrant community through the eyes of a current student as they take you on a virtual exploration of our campus. Enjoy a guided “walk” while learning about your guide’s individual experiences and insights, as well as the key places and spaces that make up the student experience at Columbia. Guests will have the opportunity to connect with our student tour guide directly, ask questions and get to know some of the many offerings that our campus and city have to offer. Register for a Virtual Program Meet Admissions Officers from Five Schools Join virtual information sessions with admissions representatives and explore five universities at once. Sessions will include a brief overview of each institution, information on admissions and financial aid and questions from the audience. Exploring Educational Excellence sessions include Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Rice and the University of Chicago. DiscoveringU sessions include Columbia, the University of Chicago, the University of Texas at Austin, the University of Michigan and Yale. Group Sessions For groups of 10 or more, you can request a student-led information session that educates prospective students on college access broadly and offers the chance to discuss their specific experiences as a Columbia student. This visit is intended for community-based organizations and secondary schools that would like to learn more about the college search process. Request a group session Blue View Video Series Welcome to Columbia Access and Affordability: Financial Aid Columbia College Columbia Engineering Explore at Your Own Pace With our self-guided virtual tour, you can enjoy 360° panoramic views of Columbia’s beautiful Morningside Heights campus from anywhere. This interactive online walking tour includes stops inside iconic locations such as Butler Library and Low Rotunda, as well as our residence halls, academic spaces and dining facilities. Optional narration is available in English, Spanish and Mandarin. Take the self-guided tour Want to learn more? Dive deeper into our transformative curriculum and renowned faculty, beloved community traditions, day-in-the-life student stories, dynamic location in Morningside Heights and in New York City, and our admissions and financial aid processes through our curated videos or through an information session, conducted by members of the admissions team and student leaders. Watch our videos now Ask a student Want to hear directly from a student and get your burning Columbia questions answered? You can reach out to current Columbia College and Columbia Engineering undergrads and get their take on all the best parts of their college experience. Ask now Image Quick Links Self-Directed Virtual Tour On-Campus Experiences Meet Our Students Being Here Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube