Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Affordability & Aid Cost Calculators Having the right tools to make a solid plan for the future can make a big difference in your college journey. We’re pleased to offer two different options to help you and your family estimate your net cost of attending Columbia, as well as the financial aid package for which you may qualify. The MyinTuition Quick College Cost Estimator and the Net Price Calculator provide estimates using the financial aid policies of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering. Please note that these are estimates, and that Financial Aid and Educational Financing is the final authority on all decisions around aid eligibility. The results from these tools are only as accurate as the information you provide, so you should try to account for as many of the specifics of your circumstances as you can! In particular, there are a few factors that can impact the accuracy of your results, including: Parents who are self-employed or own a business, corporation and/or partnership Families living outside the United States Divorced or separated parents Families with more than one student in college Special circumstances are treated on a case by case basis. This information should be communicated in writing directly to Financial Aid and Educational Financing at the time of your application. MyinTuition Quick College Cost Estimator Net Price Calculator The Net Price Calculator is a comprehensive calculator that asks a number of detailed questions to calculate an estimate of the amount your family may be expected to contribute. It may be necessary to refer to the student’s and parents’ most recent federal tax returns in order to complete the form accurately. The form can take approximately 20 minutes to complete. Based on the information you submit, the Net Price Calculator will provide an estimated Net Price, including a Parent Contribution, Student Contribution and Student Self-Help for one year at Columbia. Start Calculator Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube