Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Public & Community Service Overview Through Cardinal Service, Stanford offers you a wide variety of public and community service opportunities, ranging from on-campus courses to off-campus research to community-based leadership projects. Students pursuing any course of study can find opportunities to serve and many offer academic credit. Learn More Haas Center for Public Service The Haas Center for Public Service inspires Stanford University to realize a just and sustainable world through service, scholarship, and community partnerships. It is the hub of Cardinal Service, a university-wide initiative to elevate and expand service as a distinctive feature of a Stanford education. Cardinal Courses Cardinal Courses are courses that apply classroom knowledge to address real-world societal problems. Some provide direct service to local schools, nonprofit organizations and government agencies, while others allow students already engaged in service to enhance the effectiveness of their service. Courses are also offered that introduce specific settings, a theoretical framework, and academic skills needed to prepare for public service fieldwork and internships. Explore Courses Cardinal Quarter A Cardinal Quarter is a full-time summer or quarter-long service opportunity to build knowledge, skills, and networks while making meaningful contributions to communities locally, nationally, and across the globe. Students can receive Stanford support for either prearranged placements or self-designed fellowship opportunities. Fellowship Opportunities Community-Based Research Fellows Program Cardinal Commitment Make and sustain a significant service commitment as part of your Stanford experience. Join one of more than 125 student-led service organizations or participate in one of Stanford's innovative service programs. The Haas Center sponsors leadership training, grants, workshops, and awards for student organization and service leadership. Leadership Development Student Organizations Public Service Leadership Program Other Campus Programs Alternative Breaks @ Stanford The Alternative Breaks @ Stanford Program exposes students to complex social and cultural issues through direct service, experiential learning, group discussion and individual reflection. The vision is to transform students into advocates of social change on issues affecting our communities. Stanford in Washington Students serve as interns in institutions and agencies located in Washington, DC including the Senate, the House of Representatives the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Smithsonian Institution among others. Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Stanford students have the option of participating in ROTC through cross-enrollment agreements with three neighboring universities. Details on these programs as well as the Haas Center Military Service as Public Service Project are available on our ROTC page. Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.