Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x LSP Student Voices LSP students Caio, Airin, George, and Mia share a bit about themselves and offer written reflections and insights into their unique experiences, within LSP and at Stanford. Undergrad Welcome Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. The Advising Resource Toolkit These advising tools may be used cooperatively during an advising conversation or you may use them on your own, to help you prepare for a conversation with your academic advisor. They are intended to: help frame your reflections throughout your time at Stanford guide your strategic thinking if you face challenges or difficulty facilitate your academic planning and intellectual development support you as you consider post-undergraduate education Explore the Advising Resource Toolkit Hume Center Spring Quarter Tutoring Dates Sunday, April 3 – Wednesday, June 8, 2022 Drop-in writing tutoring ends a week earlier, on June 1. The Hume Center for Writing and Speaking (Hume Center) works with all Stanford students to help them develop rich and varied abilities in every aspect of writing and oral communication. In free individual sessions, Hume tutors help students get started on assignments; address and overcome writer's block or performance anxiety; learn strategies for revising, editing, and proofreading; and understand academic conventions in their fields. Learn More about the Hume Center Bing Overseas Studies Programs Berlin is both a political and artistic hotspot, so I often had the opportunity to practically explore my fields. There was always something going on that I wanted to see. —Robin Willscheidt Twitter Stanford Undergrad in the Twitterverse Tweets by StanfordVPUE Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.