Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Become a Tutor! Interested in becoming a tutor? Learn more about becoming a subject tutor Learn more about becoming a language conversation partner Learn more about becoming a Hume Center Writing or Oral Communication tutor Tutoring Tutoring & Academic Support at Stanford Whatever help you need--whether it's with this week's paper assignment, a course concept, or getting your academic life organized--Stanford offers you expert coaching and advice. Community and wellness resources are shown here, too. Learn More About Tutoring & Academic Support Subject Tutoring and Foreign Language Practice To support you in your courses. Find tutoring in ten subjects or book a 1:1 foreign language conversation practice appointment. Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Visit the Hume Center for Writing and Speaking in Building 250 on the main quad. Our expert writing and speaking tutors are available to help both undergrads and graduate students with any kind of writing or speaking assignments. Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Access the AARC and other tutoring and advising resources for student-athletes Technical Communication Program (School of Engineering) The TCP helps students with their technical writing and/or speaking skills. Though primarily designed for students in engineering, the TCP welcomes interested students from across the university. Other Tutoring Resources Other groups who provide tutoring to students, primarily during the academic year Academic Skills Coaching Resources to address time management, procrastination, reading comprehension and retention, and other skill sets to help you become a more sophisticated and effective learner Stanford Learning Lab Customize your learning strategies, connect with a learning partner or discussion group, understand your learning profile, and leverage your strengths as a student with or without learning differences. Community Center Resources Community Centers are gateways to intellectual, cultural and leadership opportunities for all Stanford students. Find your connection to a broader community as well as individual services and support Health and Wellness Resources Health and wellness resources available to all Stanford Students Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.