Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x About VPUE VPUE Overview Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Study of Undergraduate Education at Stanford Student Advisory Group (SAG) Contact Us In the News A Conversation with Sarah Church Sarah Church to become Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Meet the Vice Provost Stacy H. Geiken Photography Sarah Church Freeman-Thornton Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education The Pritzker University Fellow in Undergraduate Education Professor of Physics Sarah Church, the Freeman-Thornton Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education at Stanford, has been in teaching, research and senior-level administrative roles at Stanford University for more than 20 years. In her VPUE role, she oversees numerous offices, programs, and grant initiatives dedicated to involving faculty with undergraduate education, connecting students with phenomenal academic, experiential and research opportunities at Stanford, and fully realizing a liberal education. The VPUE office includes Academic Advising, the Center for Teaching and Learning, Stanford Introductory Studies, the Program in Writing & Rhetoric, Undergraduate Research, Community Engaged Learning, and the Bing Overseas Studies Program. Prior to becoming Vice Provost for Undergraudate Education, Church held multiple senior roles at the University including Vice Provost for Faculty Development, Teaching and Learning (2019-2020), Senior Associate Vice Provost for Teaching and Learning (2019) and Senior Associate Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education (2016-2019). She is currently the Pritzker University Fellow in Undergraduate Education. Since the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, Church has been leading Stanford’s Academic Continuity Group which is part of the University’s Emergency Response Center. The ACG, made up of more than two dozen administrative and teaching staff from across the University, is responsible for ensuring the continuity of education during the global pandemic. Church also recently led the University’s Coordinated First-Year Committee that reimagined the first-year experience at Stanford. In May 2020, the Faculty Senate approved the establishment of a Civic, Liberal and Global Education requirement for first-year students, based on the committee’s proposal. Church has been a faculty member in the Physics Department since 1999, where she established a research program in experimental astrophysics. Her work includes measuring cosmological parameters by mapping the polarization of the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation (CMBR)—the residual heat from the Big Bang—and mapping emission from molecules such as carbon monoxide in nearby galaxies to better understand how stars form in these objects. She currently is the principal investigator for The Argus experiment (90 GHz spectrometer for Green Bank Telescope) and Co-Investigator for The Carbon Monoxide Mapping Array Pathfinder (COMAP). Church served as the Deputy Director of the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology from 2007-2012, and as the Director of the Hanson Experimental Physics Laboratory from 2012-2016. She received her B.A. in Natural Sciences and Ph.D. in Radio Astronomy from Cambridge University. Contact Information The Office of the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Sweet Hall, Fourth Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 (650) 724-8618 Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.