Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics When students apply to either Columbia College or The Fu Foundation School of Applied Engineering and Science (Columbia Engineering), they join an intimate community of talented and motivated learners—and become integral components of the University ecosystem that thrives around them. Working closely with outstanding faculty who are deeply invested in their learning, students gain a quality education that serves as a foundation for greatness. Columbia College Where a lifelong journey of impact begins. Columbia Engineering Here engineers learn to solve and to lead. Outside the Classroom Engage with a city of endless possibility. A leader in higher education for more than 250 years Columbia has been a place of deep intellectual curiosity and wide-ranging academic inquiry since 1754. Across departments, schools, centers and institutes, Columbians at every level are driven by an abiding passion for discovery, working in the service of improving human understanding and the advancement of our global society. Learn about Columbia University The Core Curriculum Advising Research Internships A vast intellectual ecosystem On College Walk, at the heart of campus, students stand in the center of 17 world-renowned graduate and professional schools, and often find themselves amid the same halls and classrooms that have been home to many of the giants of our time. From the law school of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, to the business school of Warren Buffett, to the School of Journalism where the Pulitzer Prize was born, Columbia’s graduate institutions are home to a wide range of academic opportunities—many of which are designated specifically for Columbia undergraduates. student: Columbia students are highly engaged in the world around them, and the exuberance of their opinions makes for great discussion—even in a casual atmosphere like our floor lounge. Mackenzie G. Great Falls, MT Sociology & Business Management fact: 6:1 student-to-faculty ratio fact: 6,000 undergraduates fact: 100+ programs of study fact: 250+ faculty in the National Academy of Engineering, Academy of Science and American Academy of Arts and Sciences A renowned liberal arts college within a world-class research university. Columbia College students foster a broad base of knowledge, achieve mastery of their chosen discipline, and pursue their passions with an eye toward a better future. Explore Columbia College Engineers are a force for the future. Columbia Engineering students and faculty make remarkable contributions to technological and social progress, pushing the frontiers of knowledge and discovery to meet the needs of our global society. Explore Columbia Engineering A call to the pursuit of knowledge—in all its forms. Whether through Columbia’s storied Core Curriculum, which has informed our community’s discourse for a century, or in exciting new endeavors like the Eric H. Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights, the Columbia Startup Lab, or the Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, Columbians are called to grapple with timeless questions. They form personal and meaningful relationships with ideas and ideals. Above all, they strive to know—not only for the sake of knowing, but in an attempt to cast a light on our collective pathway forward. A mindset of continuous learning. Inside the classroom, out in the city, or venturing out to engage in any corner of the world, Columbia undergraduates learn to explore the theoretical, the philosophical and the practical to see how they all apply to a life examined and well lived. Explore beyond the classroom fact: 200+ research opportunities reserved for Columbia Engineering students through the Student Research Program fact: 97.8% of Columbia College and Columbia Engineering undergraduate degree earners had at least 1 internship during their time at Columbia fact: 100+ study abroad programs fact: >98% of surveyed students would recommend our Career Advising Sessions to a friend See yourself here. Whether you want to tour the facilities of the college you’re interested in or sit in on a virtual class from the comfort of your own home, we’ve got you covered. Explore visits and virtual experiences Visit How to Apply Affordability & Aid Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube