Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Visit Columbia truly is a place like no other—but don’t take our word for it. The best way to get to know our campus, neighborhood, city and community is to experience each one for yourself. Whether you want to explore from the comfort of your own home or take in the sights and sounds of New York City firsthand, check out our calendar of virtual and in-person admissions events today! We’re excited to welcome you into the Columbia Blue—and we can’t wait to find out where it takes you. student: When I first visited I was struck by all the green spaces and comfortable nooks in and around Columbia. It was a traditional yet uniquely beautiful college campus right here in NYC. Billy K. Queens, NY Comparative Literature and Society Virtual Experiences Experience Columbia, without leaving home. Campus Visits Come see for yourself. Events Calendar What's happening on campus and near you. Welcome to Columbia University in the City of New York. Specifically, the island of Manhattan, which means island of many hills in the language of the Lenni Lenape people. We recognize that Manhattan is part of the ancestral and traditional homeland of the Lenni Lenape and Wappinger people who are still active members of our community throughout New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Learn more by watching this video. Launch Experience Want to hear more about Columbia? Use the Request Information form to receive emails about academics at Columbia College and Columbia Engineering, undergraduate life and upcoming events. Join our mailing list Life at Columbia Explore what it means to be a student at Columbia. From our location in New York City to our vibrant, on-campus communities, Columbia allows you to discover, live and learn at the center of it all. Learn more Academics Across departments, schools, and institutes, Columbians at every level are driven by a passion for discovery, working in the service of improving human understanding and the advancement of our global society. Learn more How to Apply The college application process is a time for reflection, research, aspiration and organization. When you’re ready to begin your Columbia journey, we’re ready to help, every step of the way. Learn more FAQs We can’t tell you the best street vendor in the city. Some things you have to learn for yourself. Other things? Give us a try. Learn more Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube