Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Outside the Classroom Advising Columbia's advising resources are designed to help you grow into the brightest version of your personal and professional self. The faculty and staff invest, and are deeply invested in, the success of each student, creating a culture of mentorship and support that will empower you throughout your time at Columbia. student: Columbia's mentorship program paired me with my current mentor who has truly taken me under his wing and provided me with an inside look into the realm of engineering at the commercial and private level. Aiman N. Danvers, MA Mechanical Engineering and Energy Systems A community of support Your network of advisers will begin to take shape even before you arrive on campus, and it will grow and evolve throughout your undergraduate journey. Your adviser at the James H. and Christine Turk Berick Student for Student Advising is there to support you and can help you with any academic and personal concerns. Your CSA adviser is just one of many advising resources that are available. Faculty members are another vital source of advice, particularly once you have decided on a major. They are available to discuss research opportunities, to elucidate the finer points of course material and major requirements, and to guide you through your declared field of study. Advisers in Undergraduate Global Engagement and the Center for Career Education, for example, will assist you as you explore opportunities for study abroad, internships and jobs. Advising Deans Before you arrive on campus, you’ll be paired with an academic adviser, known as an advising dean, through the James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising. They can assist you with selecting classes, brainstorming about potential majors and developing long-term academic goals, honing study habits, and applying for research and internship opportunities, and can help you navigate and avail yourself of Columbia’s many resources. Are there advisers for specific departmental majors? Yes. After students declare their major, they will be matched with a faculty adviser within their chosen department to help them explore their intellectual interests and develop their academic schedule. Are tutors available? Yes. The Center for Student Advising provides free peer tutoring for specific courses, and Peer Academic Skills Consultants help students develop effective learning strategies. The renowned Writing Center assists students with their academic writing through one-on-one consultations and workshops. Does Columbia grant credit for college courses and credits earned during high school? Some placement, advanced standing or credit may be granted for nationally or internationally standardized examinations, including but not limited to Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate and British Advanced Level and Pre-U Examinations. Credit is determined and approved by a student’s academic advisor from the CSA after a student is enrolled. See all FAQs Your advising network As you progress through your undergraduate experience, you’ll continue to add to your network of advisers, both formal and informal. Once you declare a major, for example, you’ll be paired with an adviser from the corresponding academic department, who will work with your CSA Advising Dean to assist you with the development of your academic schedule. You’ll also get to know the staff at the Center for Career Education and the Office of Preprofessional Advising, all of whom serve as invaluable resources in helping to expand your skills sets, refine your interests and tailor your academic and professional trajectory. Image Quick Links James H. and Christine Turk Berick Center for Student Advising Center for Career Education Peer Academic Skills Consultants Pre-Professional Advising In This Section Advising Research Internships Global Experiences Outcomes Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube