Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Become a Tutor! Interested in becoming a tutor? Learn more about becoming a subject tutor Learn more about becoming a language conversation partner Learn more about becoming a Hume Center Writing or Oral Communication tutor Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Dept. of Special Collections & University Archives These groups serve students primarily during the academic year. Check out their websites or contact them directly for more information. And, as always, take full advantage of your profs' and TAs' office hours and review sessions. Resources CS1 and CS2 Be prepared to use Stanford's computing resources and produce multimedia assignments by taking these helpful courses offered by Academic Computing. Technical Communication Program (TCP) in the School of Engineering The TCP helps students with their technical writing and/or speaking skills. Though primarily designed for students in engineering, the TCP welcomes interested students from across the university. Stanford University Mathematical Organization (SUMO) During Autumn, Winter, and Spring Quarters, the Stanford University Mathematical Organization (SUMO) offers free tutoring for students in Math 51, 52, 53, 104, and 113. Summer Academic Resource Center Help over the summer for visiting and matriculated Stanford students. Community Center Resources Stanford Centers for Equity Community and Leadership offer a variety of tutoring and academic support resources ranging from course-related study groups to individual advising. Visit their sites to learn more. Contacts If you have any questions, please write to tutoringhelp@stanford.edu. If you have any questions on tutoring support at the Hume Center, please contact humecenter@stanford.edu. Need other kinds of support? Check the Wellness Network at wellness.stanford.edu. Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.