Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Research Highlights Home Research Highlights Student Profiles 2020 Sabrina Shih Biological Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Research Project Cranial Osteology of BonefishesWilliam and Kate Bemis , Principal Investigator Sabrina came to Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences as a sophomore transfer student broadly interested in art and biology. Wanting to combine the two fields, she was drawn towards the field of bioarcheology due to its interdisciplinary nature in art, culture, and biology. Studying beyond the boundaries of campus, Sabrina conducted research on juvenile skeletal assemblages from the 15th century through an osteology workshop in Romania during summer 2019. Coming back to Cornell in the fall, she knew she wanted to continue studying osteology and expanded her interest from studying the osteology of humans to studying the diverse osteology of fishes. Since then, Sabrina has co-organized and presented at the 2020 Undergraduate Virtual Fishes Conference and has been pursuing her honors thesis research on the cranial osteology of Bonefishes under the advisement of Professor William Bemis and Dr. Kate Bemis. 2020 Nick Leung Biological Sciences, Asian Studies in College of Arts and Sciences Biology Student Advisor, LSC Tutor and Course Assistant Research Project The History of Organic Chemistry in JapanAndrew Campana and Nick Admussen, Principal Investigator The College of Arts and Sciences provides its students with the unique option to custom create a truly interdisciplinary curriculum for themselves in the spirit of Ezra Cornell’s “Any Person, Any Study.” Nick came to the College of Arts and Sciences with interests in both the humanities and the natural sciences, and with the ambition to complete a degree in both Asian Studies and Biological sciences. He was especially interested in intersections between the two fields, specifically Asian representation in science and the history of science in Asia. Learning about the contributions to the understanding of DNA replication made by Dr. Tsuneko Okazaki in BIOMG 1350 and the organic reactions developed by Dr. Akira Suzuki in CHEM 2080, Nick fostered this interest in Asian science history throughout his undergraduate career. During his senior year, he decided to draw upon this interest and begin a senior honors thesis on Asian science. By examining the research of Asian Nobel Laureates, he came to the conclusion that Japanese organic chemistry was one of the most prolific scientific fields in Asia, and he chose to center his thesis around the history of organic chemistry in Japan. Nick completed his honors thesis under the guidance of Prof. Andrew Campana and Prof. Nick Admussen of the Asian Studies Department, and the thesis has been awarded summa cum laude honors in recognition of its completion. Student Profiles Research Spotlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights nextprevious Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.