Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Academics Columbia College From its distinctive Core Curriculum, exceptional research facilities and extensive global programming, to its small class sizes and intimate learning environments, the educational experience of Columbia College is marked by countless opportunities for personal and intellectual growth. Mindful, inquisitive, and driven to better themselves and the world around them, Columbia College students embrace a mindset of inquiry and continual discovery. They pursue their passions with vigor, purpose, and an active interest in shaping a better future—and find that they’re capable of even more than they may have imagined. Image Where a 100-year-old Core Curriculum inspires a thousand new points of view. The Core Curriculum presents Columba College students with challenging ideas that encourage them to be critical thinkers who are ready to develop the skills of listening, questioning and debate, as well as active citizens who are engaged in their communities. Explore the Core Areas of study Columbia College students select from more than 100 majors and concentrations—including a range of interdisciplinary options and joint programs. Explore Areas of Study A little guidance goes a long way. Columbia College students are guided by faculty and staff advisers who are committed to the craft of teaching and mentorship. Together, they explore new horizons of knowledge, understanding and impact. Explore Advising Image Internships Whether you engage with Columbia alumni, attend On-Campus Recruiting events, or get professional guidance at the Center for Career Education, you will be set up for success. Learn more Research Join field-leading thinkers and your peers in the labs, institutes, and research centers that make Columbia one of the world's leading research institutions. A world of discovery awaits. Learn more Global Experiences Look at any aspect of our community, and you will see that our students are engaged both academically and experientially with the larger world - on campus, across our city and around the globe. Learn more Outcomes Whether pursuing an extraordinary job opportunity or an elite graduate program, Columbia students graduate prepared with the skills and knowledge to succeed—no matter what their next steps might be. Learn more Visit How to Apply Affordability & Aid In This Section The Core Curriculum Areas of Study My Columbia College Journey Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube