Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Awards and Graduation Honors Overview Stanford students can receive university awards for their academic, research, and writing excellence. The student awards included below are administered or supported by offices of the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Graduation Honors Undergraduate Departmental Award Recipients, 2020-2021 Undergraduate National and University Award Recipients, 2020-2021 Undergraduate Honors Society Recipients, 2020-2021 Undergraduate Departmental Award Recipients, 2019-2020 Undergraduate National and University Award Recipients, 2019-2020 Academic Awards Phi Beta Kappa Phi Beta Kappa is a nationwide society honoring students for the excellence and breadth of their undergraduate scholarly achievements. To be considered, a student must take three courses of 3 units or more at Stanford with a grade of ‘B-’ or better in three domains of knowledge. These domains are humanities; science, engineering, and math; and social sciences. Students’ academic records are automatically reviewed, so no special action is required for students who wish to be considered for membership. Golden, Firestone, and Kennedy Awards The Golden, Firestone, and Kennedy Thesis Awards recognize the top honors theses written each year in an annual VPUE event. Recipients and their families are invited to this special ceremony during Commencement Weekend. Award announcements for the Golden, Firestone, and Kennedy Thesis Awards for 2020-21 coming in summer 2021. Writing and Presentation Awards The Boothe Prize recognizes outstanding examples of expository and argumentative writing. This is for first-year students in the Program in Writing and Rhetoric and theThinking Matters Program. The Lunsford Oral Presentation of Research Award recognizes innovative multimedia presentations that students create in their PWR 2 classes. This award is for second-year students in the Program in Writing and Rhetoric. The Hoefer Prizes for Excellence for Writing in the Major recognizes outstanding Stanford undergraduate writing in the Writing in the Major courses. See Also Office of the University Registrar: University Awards Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.