Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home How to Apply First-Year Applicants We accept first-year applications from students who are hoping to enroll full time at Columbia College or Columbia Engineering. Our admissions staff reviews each application holistically and with care in order to understand what each candidate might contribute to our undergraduate community. Our goal is to identify the applicants we believe will make the most of this experience—both during their time here, and throughout their lives. Understanding the Process Class of 2025 Profile Testing Policy A Message for Prospective Students - Fall 2021 First-Year Applicants FAQs Should I apply Early Decision? If Columbia is your first-choice school—and you are willing to make a binding commitment to attend if admitted—we encourage you to consider applying Early Decision. Learn more about the Early Decision process. How do I apply for financial aid? The financial aid application process collects information about your family's income, assets, family composition and other circumstances. All requirements are detailed on the financial aid office website. What if I need an application deadline extension? We understand that students personally affected by natural disasters, community disturbances or other extenuating circumstances may have challenges in completing their applications on time; they are invited to email us at ugrad-ask@columbia.edu if their application will be arriving late. See all FAQs Application Details Application Requirements Application Options Columbia accepts either the Coalition Application or the Common Application. We will also accept the QuestBridge Application from QuestBridge Finalists. These applications include: Autobiographical information Lists and descriptions of a student’s achievements, activities, employment and summer activities Personal essay Columbia-Specific Application Questions In addition to the Coalition Application and the Common Application, you must also respond to Columbia-specific questions to provide the Admissions Committee with a fuller sense of you as a person—including your academic, extracurricular and intellectual interests. These questions allow us to better understand your intellectual curiosity, habits of mind, love of learning and sense of self. These questions also allow the Admissions Committee to learn more about you in your current community and why you feel Columbia’s distinctive experiences in and out of the classroom would be a good fit for your undergraduate education. Secondary School Report An official high school transcript from all high schools attended One high school counselor’s recommendation and school profile The completed Mid-Year Report Standardized Tests Please review our standardized testing policy, which includes details about extending our test-optional policy for first-year applicants to Columbia College or Columbia Engineering for Fall 2022, 2023 and 2024. In a typical year, we ask applicants to submit: SAT or ACT, writing section not required Applicants may self-report their scores English proficiency examination score (if necessary) Teacher Recommendations These recommendations must come from teachers who taught you in academic disciplines For engineering applicants, one must come from a math or science teacher Application Fee or Fee Waiver An $85 nonrefundable application fee is required as part of an application to Columbia University. We are unable to refund the application fee under any circumstances. Submit payment online using an electronic check or Visa, MasterCard, Discover or American Express credit card. Payment (or fee waiver) is due at the time that you submit your application. If paying the application fee is a significant financial burden for your family, we encourage you to request an automatic fee waiver through your admission application. You can determine your fee waiver eligibility today using this form. Dates & Deadlines November 1 Deadline for Early Decision applications Deadline for QuestBridge National College Match applicants November 15 Deadline for Early Decision financial aid applications Mid-December Admissions and financial aid decisions released online to Early Decision candidates January 1 Deadline for Regular Decision applications Early January Early Decision response deadline February 15 Deadline for Regular Decision financial aid applications Early April Admissions and financial aid decisions released online to Regular Decision candidates May 2 Regular Decision response deadline May 15 Enrollment deferral request deadline Late June Final transcript due for incoming students Eligibility The first-year application is for students who plan to enroll full time in either Columbia College or Columbia Engineering. If you’re a current college student, explore our Transfer, Combined Plan and Visiting Student programs. If you’re a potential applicant to Columbia College and you’ve taken a break of more than a year in your education (with the exception of those in mandatory military service) you should, instead, consider Columbia University's School of General Studies. The same is true for all students who wish to attend a part-time program. (If you’re interested in attending Columbia Engineering but have taken a break as described above, just apply as a first-year.) Supplementary Materials Supplementary materials are not a required part of our admissions process—but there are occasions where they can enhance our understanding of your application. (In other words, it’s completely up to you if you’d like to include these materials.) Interviews Interviews are conducted by select Student Interviewers and by volunteer members of Columbia’s Alumni Representative Committee. Because we only have a finite number of volunteers and a vast number of applicants, we’re unable to interview everyone. As such, interviews are not required. If you’re granted an interview, you’ll be connected with an interviewer after you submit your completed application materials. If you are not offered an interview, you are not at any disadvantage in the admissions process. Learn more about interviews. Accuracy & Authenticity All applicants should review our Accuracy & Authenticity statement prior to submitting their application, as all applicants to Columbia University must confirm on their application that they understand and agree to adhere to the above expectations. Contact For questions about undergraduate admission and the application process, please visit our online FAQs. If you still can't find your answer, please contact us. In This Section Early Decision Homeschooled Applicants Questbridge The Columbia-Juilliard Program Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube