Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Undergraduate Research and Independent Projects Search this site Submit Search Menu Student Spotlight STEM Fellows Funded Student Grants Changes in Rationality through History Developing a Low-Cost, Electricity-Free Centrifuge Integrating Gaming with Biotechnology Model Food Systems in Italy Polymer Films in Sensitive Pressure Sensors Supermassive Black Holes and Accretion Disks Get Started Reflect on your interests Which project is right for you? Senior Synthesis Develop a mentor relationship Assemble your research toolbox Build your independent project Prepare for your off-campus project Fund Your Project Explore Undergraduate Research Student Grants What Type of Student Grant is Best for your Needs? Eligibility Requirements for All Applicants Major Grant Small Grant Beagle II Chappell Lougee Scholarship Conference Grant Explore Departmental Funding Learn about Faculty Funding Research-Related National Fellowships An Introduction to Fellowships Fellowships Listing The Beinecke Scholarship Program The Goldwater Scholarship James C. Gaither Junior Fellows Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program Additional Undergraduate and Postgraduate Fellowships Nominees and National Scholars VPUE STEM Fellows Program Other Funding Prepare Your Application Checklist for Grant Applications Requesting a Faculty Mentor Letter of Support Writing a Project Proposal Sample Project Proposals Writing Conference Grant Proposals Constructing a Budget Budget Guidelines for Student Grants Budget FAQs Special Requirements Off-Campus Travel Requirements International Travel Requirements Human Subjects Research Requirements Apply Now Learn About the Review Process Following Up on a Proposal Decision Share Your Project SURPS/ASURPS Eligibility Requirements Apply to Present at SURPS/ASURPS Make a Good Poster Poster Examples Papers and Presentations Honors and Capstones For Awardees Acceptance Requirements for Projects within the U.S. Acceptance Requirements for International Projects Receiving and tracking your funds For Faculty & Staff Mentoring Undergraduate Researchers Preparing for Remote Mentorship Exercise for Aligning Expectations Project Postings Which Grant? Faculty & Department Grant Applications Faculty & Department Grant Administration Faculty/Departmental Grant Eligibility Requirements Proposal Guidelines Events and Programs Small Grants Angelica Jopling, '20 examined Anselm Kiefer's work which explores String Theory. This project was supported with a Small Grant. Learn more about Small Grants Main content start Inquiry, investigation, and discovery are at the heart of Stanford’s mission. Every faculty member is engaged in groundbreaking original scholarship, and as an undergraduate, you can join faculty in their work in laboratories, libraries, studios, and beyond. Imagine how you can connect your classroom learning and intellectual interests as you work on an independent project under faculty mentorship. Covid-19 News and Updates (updated Sept 23, 2021) As Stanford's COVID-19 response continues to evolve for the 2021-2022 academic year, please continue to check this webpage for updates pertinent to undergraduate research. Information on University operations and policies in the context of the pandemic can be found on the Health Alerts webpage. On Travel Research-related travel within 150 miles of campus is permitted for undergraduate students. Domestic and international travel beyond 150 miles will continue to be restricted through Fall 2021. We understand that levels of COVID-19 risk and related local guidelines vary by region, but no exceptions will be made. Policies regarding travel will be updated as the University's policies evolve. Key Links Get Inspired Develop a Mentor Relationship Assemble Your Research Toolbox Explore Student Grants Explore Departmental Funding Fellowships Photo: Matt Mettias '23 was awarded a Chappell Lougee scholarship to support the development of his original music album Keanu. The conscious hip-hop/Hawaiian fusion album centers Pacific Islander issues. Upcoming Events and Deadlines See All Events and Deadlines Major Grant recipient and Art Practice student Sabrina Bedford created an acrylic paint series to accompany her own short novel about a girl surviving in a post-climate change disaster world who comes across a time machine. Major Grant Recipients Gunner Dongieux and Sean O’Bannon navigate the intersection of tech and art by working to seamlessly incorporate AI into Gunner’s painting using a Generative Adversarial Network. Explore #MyStanfordResearch on Instagram Stanford Undergraduate Research and Independent Projects Web Login Address Sweet Hall 4th Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us My Stanford Research Quick Links Explore Undergraduate Research Student Grants Information for Faculty and Staff About VPUE Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top