Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Us What is Undergraduate Research? Mission and Values Find Us Meet Our Team Stories and News Explore Courses Find a Project Independent Research Public Scholarship Student Organizations On-Campus Research Facilities Summer Research Summer Research Program The ASPIRE Research Buddy Program The Gordon Summer Fellowship The Jean Danielson Memorial Scholarship Grant Funding Publish and Present Publish Your Work With Us Project and Presentation Support For Faculty Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... OFFICE OF UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH Office of Undergraduate Research The Newcomb-Tulane College Office of Undergraduate Research engages undergraduate students in meaningful and rigorous research experiences, develops undergraduate research skills, and connects undergraduates to faculty-driven or independent research opportunities. Select a CategoryQuick Links Newcomb-Tulane College Meet Our Team Research Network Take Your Learning Beyond the Classroom About Us What is Undergraduate Research? Mission and Values Find Us Meet Our Team Stories and News Explore Courses Find a Project Independent Research Public Scholarship Student Organizations On-Campus Research Facilities Publish and Present Tulane Undergraduate Research Journal Project and Presentation Support Research Network This innovative resource, created by Newcomb-Tulane College and maintained by the Office of Undergraduate Research, provides students and faculty access to a convenient, searchable database of research opportunities across a diverse spectrum of topics ranging from art history, to poetry, to biology, to digital animation, to climate change and beyond. View the Research Network Tool. Featured Resources Tulane Undergraduate Research Journal Submit your research to our annual peer-reviewed journal, which accepts work from all academic disciplines. Grant Funding Apply for funds to support your undergraduate research, conference travel, internships, or special projects. The Office of Undergraduate Research awarded $74,495.60 to students through 127 Newcomb-Tulane College grants. 105 Honors theses were rpduced in 2019-2020 Connect with Tulane Office of Undergraduate Research Follow Undergraduate Research (@newcombtulanecollege) on Instagram for real-time updates and important reminders. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Newcomb-Tulane College Explore Research Opportunities Grants for Academic Enrichment Events Calendar News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University