Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Undergraduate Major in Genetics Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home News Current Students People Careers Open dropdown menu Employers Graduate Programs Job Titles Genetics Club BIOL/GEN 114X Home Welcome to the Genetics Program at Iowa State University! Choose Your Genetics Adventure Why choose Genetics at Iowa State? The small program size and associated learning community provides students with support and a sense of community, while offering the benefits and opportunities of a major research university. At Iowa State, faculty in 3 different departments (BBMB, EEOB, and GDCB) administer the undergraduate Genetics major. These faculty provide undergraduates with a multidisciplinary perspective on genetics and a broad range of possibilities to become involved in cutting edge genetics research. Students can begin working in research labs as early as their freshman year! In addition, the Genetics Program offers freshmen the unique opportunity to participate in state-of-the-art research by enrolling in a developmental biology lab utilizing the CRISPR/Cas 9 system to perform gene editing in a model organism, the zebrafish. The program also offers internships for students to conduct semester or summer research projects in faculty labs. Looking for more research experience? Our Experiential Learning Coordinator will assist students with identifying research opportunities in faculty labs on campus and internships at local and regional companies. Finally, completion of the genetics degree meets the admissions requirements for most graduate and professional programs! Whether you are interested in pursuing a career in a medical field (human medicine or pre-vet), genetic counseling, genetic engineering, or other genetics-related research fields, the Genetics Program at Iowa State will prepare you for the next step in your career. Follow us on Twitter: @ISU_Genetics Areas of Study Healthcare Genetic Counseling Biomedical Research Plant Sciences Research Join a Learning Team Research Opportunities & More Careers: Let's Explore! Student Spotlight Congratulations to the 2022 Genetics Summer Internship Recipients: Connor Davison Caitlin Gonzales Seth Entriken Kierinn Mobley Kiernan Adair Learn about internships Recent News May 12, 2022 Congratulations Graduates! May 12, 2022 Summer 2022 Fung Undergraduate Research Internship Recipients All news Spring 2021 Genetics Graduates 80% participated in undergraduate research. 81% felt prepared for the next step in their careers. 81% accepted into graduate and professional programs or immediate employment. Associates College of Agriculture and Life Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Dr. Alison Esser aesser@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-1606 Social media Genetics Program Twitter Twitter for Genetics Majors Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information