Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Life at Columbia Our Community Columbia is home to a vibrant, curious, welcoming community of students and faculty, drawn together from every walk of life and corner of the world to live and learn in a truly global city. We are dreamers, changemakers and risk takers dedicated to exploring new and exciting ideas, and embracing a sweeping sense of possibility. It’s where you can ask big-picture questions, have high hopes and form high ideals. A chance to imagine—and to be part of—something greater. student: Columbia is one of the most collaborative and creative spaces to study, where students use their education to advance social interests both in and beyond New York City. Adam K. Buffalo, NY History and Political Science fact: 100+ countries represented fact: 54 student-led cultural organizations fact: $177 million awarded in financial aid grants fact: 50% of Columbia undergraduates receive financial aid A campus fueled by diversity From community-wide discourse on humanity’s most enduring questions to campus traditions that draw from the full spectrum of cultures, every sphere of the Columbia experience is enriched by all the diverse voices and perspectives among us. Learn more about diversity, equity and inclusion Meet Our Community student: Campus community: "The Society of Women Engineers is my favorite co-curricular activity that I am involved with. I am on the Mentorship Committee, so I help to plan events where first-years and sophomores get to meet juniors and seniors in their department. As a first-year, I was so grateful to get advice from the junior and senior women in STEM on classes and adjusting to college life." Kaitlyn B. Tuxedo, NY Applied Math and Computer Science student: A traditional residential campus in New York City: "My current suitemates are all friends that I made freshman year in Carman Floor 6. We now use our suite in East Campus with a big and wonderful kitchen to host potluck dinners. I love coming back to my dorm everyday and seeing my closest friends while still having a single in my suite." Charlie W. Denver, CO East Asian Studies and Political Science student: A traditional residential campus in New York City: "Living on campus is a great way to create a community and make friends from day one. Living in Hartley Hall my first year allowed me to make many friends on my floor, learn about various campus resources and receive great mentorship from upperclassmen who lived on my floor." Benjamin S. Accra, Ghana Economics student: Find me on campus: "My favorite thing to do on campus is probably getting a meal or boba tea and sitting on the Low Library steps with my friends! We amicably call the steps "Low Beach" because of how popular it is. It is so fun to run into friends, catch up with people and watch the beautiful sunset at night." Astrid L. Eden Prairie, MN Latin American & Caribbean Studies and Political Science student: Why Columbia? "I truly believe Columbia is one of the most collaborative and creative spaces to study, with students using their education to advance social interests both in and beyond New York City. This creative license, spirit of activism and inherent support across the community drove my decision to transfer to and attend Columbia." Adam K. Buffalo, NY History and Political Science Have questions? Reach out to our students directly. Want to learn from a current student about what it’s like to live in a residence hall? Hear how they made the transition from their small town to New York City? Learn about their favorite class this semester? Connect with a current Columbia student now. Reach out alumni: Columbia taught me to think. To question. To care. It took me to Washington, DC, and to a public service career where I became the Attorney General of the United States. Eric Holder CC'73, Law '76 82nd Attorney General of the United States See more distinguished alumni Traditions Columbia moments happen because of the people who come here and because of our history. Because this city is part of us and we are part of it. Completely unique to each student yet, oh so Columbia. They could only happen here. Learn more Clubs & Organizations In meeting rooms and auditoriums, theaters and playing fields, brownstones and practice rooms, students pursue their passions. At Columbia, there are over 500 opportunities to explore, to grow, to lead, to share. Learn more Academics Across departments, schools, and institutes, Columbians at every level are driven by a passion for discovery, working in the service of improving human understanding and the advancement of our global society. Learn more In This Section Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Students & Faculty Distinguished Alumni Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube