Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Undergraduate Research Home About Us Overview Meet Our Team Peer Mentors Meet with a Peer Mentor Apply to Be a Peer Mentor Undergraduate Research Club Get Started in Research Research Prep Course (UNIV 199) Preparation Meet with a Peer Mentor Funding and Credit for Your Work Research Awards List of Awards Application Form Mentor Endorsements Travel Awards About Travel Awards Apply Share Your Research Opportunities Travel Awards (→Funding & Credit) SURCA (Showcase for Undergraduate Research & Creative Activities) Summer Research Poster Symposium About Undergraduate Research What Is It? Why & When? Overview of the Research Process Finding Faculty Mentors Be Successful Share Your Work For Prospective Students & Families For Faculty Research-based Courses Calendar News Support Us Summer Research Opportunities MIRA: Underrepresented Future Biomedical Researchers MARC: Maximizing Access to Research Careers Division of Academic Engagement and Student Achievement (DAESA) facebook twitter instagram Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Office of Undergraduate Research Division of Academic Engagement and Student Achievement Undergraduate Research Home Pause Forge ahead into the unknown. WSU students in all majors and from all backgrounds can be undergraduate researchers who contribute something new to their field. Apply for Undergraduate Research Awards WSU undergraduate students can apply online now through Jan. 21, 2022 Jan. 28, 2022 for a variety of awards to support their mentored undergraduate research, scholarship, and creative activities in academic year 2022-23. (Note: Because of the delays and disruptions that have affected the start of spring semester 2022, the Office of Undergraduate Research has decided to extend application deadlines by one week.) Learn how to apply for an undergraduate research award Introduction to the Office of Undergraduate Research What Is Undergraduate Research? It takes place in all branches of knowledge, whether you are in the Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, or in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math. More >> We’re Here to Help You The WSU Office of Undergraduate Research helps you envision yourself as a researcher and turn that vision into reality. We specialize in: Assisting students with getting started in undergraduate research. Helping you explore your interests and make important connections at WSU and beyond. Funding awards that can support your work and travel to conference presentations. Hosting poster showcases through which you can share your findings. Supporting a club where you can find like-minded students who share your interest in research. Learn more about our office >> Get Connected Meet with a Peer Mentor Peer mentors, who are undergraduates currently involved in undergraduate research, are available most weeks to meet with you. They have the experience and training to answer your important questions, such as: “How do I get started with my research or creative activity?” “Will I get paid for what I’m doing, or am I eligible for a special scholarship?” “How do I find the right faculty mentor for me?” Schedule a meeting with one today! What’s New WSU Undergraduate Research Presents Awards to Garza, Herron, Rieck May 5, 2022 Daniel Rieck PULLMAN, Wash.—The Washington State University Office of Undergraduate Research presented its annual Recognition of Excellence in Support of Undergraduate Research Awards to Javier Garza, Bryan Herron, and Daniel Rieck for 2022. They were recognized at the April 14 Division of Academic Engagement and Student Achievement (DAESA) annual awards event. The award honors those who support undergraduate research programming and students in unique and important ways. The awardees were credited with making tremendous impacts as individuals and as a team, for providing wide-ranging and highly skilled technological and website support to undergraduate-research efforts, and for providing detailed and ever-evolving professional assistance in multiple … » More … Read Story WSU Names Jeremy Lessmann to Lead Office of Undergraduate Research January 12, 2022 Daniel Rieck Pullman, Wash.—Washington State University has appointed Jeremy J. Lessmann, chemistry associate professor, as the director of the Office of Undergraduate Research (UR). The UR is part of the Division of Academic Engagement and Student Achievement (DAESA) in the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President and Pullman Chancellor. “Jeremy brings to his new position a wealth of knowledge about, and experience with, the office and undergraduate … » More … Read Story View all news headlines >> Explore More Why & When to Get Involved? Regardless of your major, getting involved in research will help you contribute to knowledge in a field, and benefit your intellect, skill set, and career readiness. Learn more about getting involved >> How Do I Get Started? We will show you how to engage with the research going on all around you at WSU. With our assistance, getting started in undergraduate research will be easier than you think. Learn more on how to get started >> Receive Credit &/or Funding Numerous resources are available to WSU undergraduates to support and/or recognize your research efforts. Learn more about receiving credit or funding >> Share Your Work & Results Sharing new knowledge with the wider community in your field is essential to the research process. Opportunities abound to disseminate your discoveries both at WSU and beyond. Learn more on sharing your work >>