Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Life at Columbia Being Here Being at Columbia feels like being at the center of everything. It’s a beautiful, walkable campus in a welcoming residential neighborhood, tucked away in a corner of one of the world’s greatest cities. It’s centuries-old traditions that blend and evolve with the cutting edge of what’s new and what’s next. It’s good meals shared among friends and colleagues, student-led clubs that form the undercurrent of bustling campus culture, and life-altering, door-opening conversations and friendships all waiting to take shape. It’s a center of gravity where possibility becomes reality—for you, and for the world. A campus experience like no other fact: 500+ student-led clubs + organizations fact: 30+ undergraduate residence halls fact: 30+ Division I NCAA teams fact: 40+ restaurants in Morningside Heights Welcome to Columbia University in the City of New York. Specifically, the island of Manhattan, which means island of many hills in the language of the Lenni Lenape people. We recognize that Manhattan is part of the ancestral and traditional homeland of the Lenni Lenape and Wappinger people who are still active members of our community throughout New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Learn more by watching this video. student: When you pull into the subway station at 116th and Broadway, the sign says 'Columbia,' the walls are light blue, and you get off and think, ‘This stop is mine. Liv. V. Scarsdale, NY English & Art History Explore the neighborhood Being Here FAQs Will I have housing on campus for all four years? Columbia undergraduate students are guaranteed housing for all four years. In fact, nearly all undergraduates live on campus, and first-year students are required to live on campus. Housing at Columbia offers a wide variety of living opportunities-from corridor style to apartment style living, from residence halls in the middle of the main quad to those on quiet side streets only five minutes walk to the center of campus. What's Morningside Heights like? Morningside Heights is a dynamic residential neighborhood filled with restaurants, cafes, shops and hang-outs. It is steps from the Hudson River and bordered by Central Park, Morningside Park and Riverside Park; all the resources of New York City are a short bike, bus or subway ride away. Does Columbia have programs to help me make the most of my time in NYC? From the Columbia Arts Initiative (think free museum access and tickets to Broadway shows) to the Center for Career Education (careers fairs, thousands of internship listings and more), Columbia provides countless ways for you to connect with the incredible city that we call home. See all FAQs Centuries of tradition—and new ones being born all the time. From the Varsity Show that has been setting the bar for satire since 1894 to the dazzling holiday lights illuminating College Walk in December, Columbia’s traditions connect you to the past while making each generation’s experience unique. Explore Columbia traditions student: I've loved swing dancing my whole life, but never really did it. When I came to Columbia, I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, there's a group!’ I took the lessons. We go down to this club near Penn Station, and you get to dance with these amazing—probably professional—swing dancers. That one club kind of opened up a little world for me. Jessie E. Falmouth, MA Music + Psychology Find your club Athletics Whether you are a varsity athlete or just an avid sports fan, Columbia has a proud history of achievement as an original member of the Ivy League. Roar, Lions, Roar! Learn more Students & Faculty Students and faculty come from every corner of the world to engage and explore, and to create a better world. Learn more Beyond Columbia Being located in New York City isn't simply a matter of geography for Columbia. New York City is part of the Columbia experience, and as a Columbian, you are part of the fabric of this extraordinary city. Learn more Morningside Heights Morningside Heights, bordered by three parks and full of eclectic shops and great hangouts, gives Columbia students a home base in a charming historic neighborhood. Learn more In This Section Morningside Heights Traditions Housing & Dining Clubs & Organizations Student Groups Athletics Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube