Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Covid-19 Resources Use the resources below for important updates related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Health Alerts This site provides important updates about infectious diseases, travel warnings and other public health issues, including the university’s operations and policies in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Study Away COVID-19 Updates Stanford’s highest priority is the health and safety of our students. As we consider study away programming and international travel, Stanford University and the Bing Overseas Studies Program continue to monitor public health and travel advisory guidance from local public health officials, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the U.S. Department of State, and International SOS. Factors in assessing health and safety risk include, but are not limited to: International SOS assessment, availability and reliability of testing, vaccine status, potential for community spread, status of health infrastructure, entry restrictions, and feasibility of evacuation. Bing Overseas Studies Program viability decisions also take into consideration on-site resources and our ability to comply with local and Stanford COVID-19 health and safety protocols. Cardinal Recovery Cardinal Recovery is for Stanford University faculty, staff, members of the research community, and student workers preparing to return to campus. This site is also for anyone who is interested in learning more about Stanford's phased approach to returning employees to campus. Learning Technologies and Spaces Get help with away-from-campus internet access and other technology resources. Re-Approaching Stanford Updates regarding students' transition back to campus. Stanford Today News and information for the Stanford Community. Teaching Commons Stanford Teaching Commons is designed for all members of the Stanford community (instructors, TAs, support staff) who are interested in learning, education, and pedagogy. TeachAnywhere Teach Anywhere is a site focused on Stanford academic policy and guidance during the COVID-19 global pandemic. Virtual Well-Being Resources (Vaden) Well-Being at Stanford and Vaden Health Services are actively building additions to this set of virtual resources that are designed to support your well-being. Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.