Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Life at Columbia This is a place unlike any other - where Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students form a community of bright, curious individuals living and learning together in a truly one-of-a-kind environment. Our students come together from every background and every corner of the globe to engage and explore, to see new adventures and perspectives, to build connections and lifelong friendships, and to pursue a better world. Important Dates Admissions Application Due Early Decision: November 1 Regular Decision: January 1 Financial Aid Application Due Early Decision: November 15 Regular Decision: February 15 Our Community A global network of scholars and citizens. Being Here Discover, live and learn at the center of it all. Beyond Columbia A whole world waits beyond the campus gates. Student Wellness Individual well-being for a healthy community. Explore life at Columbia Traditions Clubs & Organizations Housing & Dining Global Experiences An entire universe inside 315 city blocks. Living and learning in New York City almost defies description. It’s Wall Street and Silicon Alley. The Met and MoMA. The Brooklyn Bridge and Washington Square Park. SoHo, the Village, TriBeCa, Midtown, Harlem. High finance. High fashion. High hopes and high ideals. Explore New York City Image Quick Links The admissions process Diversity, equity and inclusion How to apply Cost calculator Life at Columbia FAQs Will I have housing on campus for all four years? Columbia undergraduate students are guaranteed housing for all four years. In fact, nearly all undergraduates live on campus, and first-year students are required to live on campus. Housing at Columbia offers a wide variety of living opportunities-from corridor style to apartment style living, from residence halls in the middle of the main quad to those on quiet side streets only five minutes walk to the center of campus. What's Morningside Heights like? Morningside Heights is a dynamic residential neighborhood filled with restaurants, cafes, shops and hang-outs. It is steps from the Hudson River and bordered by Central Park, Morningside Park and Riverside Park; all the resources of New York City are a short bike, bus or subway ride away. Does Columbia have programs to help me make the most of my time in NYC? From the Columbia Arts Initiative (think free museum access and tickets to Broadway shows) to the Center for Career Education (careers fairs, thousands of internship listings and more), Columbia provides countless ways for you to connect with the incredible city that we call home. See all FAQs fact: 500+ clubs and organizations – the most interesting, rewarding, close-knit and fun Columbia micro-communities fact: 50+ performance groups fact: 60+ social justice, service and student-led initiatives, clubs and organizations fact: #1 college for food, as ranked by The Daily Meal Community is where you find it. Here, you’ll find it everywhere. Draw inspiration from a city and a neighborhood in constant motion, and a campus alive with opportunity. Tap into energy and ideas inspired by countless student clubs, organizations and opportunities to dive in. Forge friendships, find purpose, and discover a sense of belonging all your own. Meet our community See yourself here. Whether you want to get to know the neighborhood in person or visit virtually from the comfort of your own home, we’ve got you covered. Explore visit options Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube