Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Getting Started Home Getting Started Student Clubs & Related Groups There are a number of student organizations with a focus on undergraduate research. Student Organizations Cornell hosts several student organizations with a focus on undergraduate research. Student-run, with faculty mentors, these organizations provide peer and faculty advice, leadership and writing experience, and annual opportunities to present research. For a complete listing of registered student organizations see the list maintained by the Student Activities Office. Cornell Undergraduate Research Board Cornell Undergraduate Research Board is dedicated to fostering, encouraging, and supporting undergraduate research at Cornell. Each year, CURB sponsors a Fall Open House for students looking to get started in undergraduate research and a Spring Forum with a convocation and poster sessions showcasing student research. Cornell University Artificial Intelligence Cornell University Artificial Intelligence (CUAI) focuses on undergraduate research and publication, as well as educating undergrads on state of the art Vision/Machine Learning research. Please add yourself to the CUAI mailing list by sending an email to cuvl-l-request@cornell.edu with the subject “join” if your are interested in receiving our updates. Our primary efforts are a reading group that meets weekly to discuss papers (and research in general) in the field of machine learning. The goal is to familiarize people with state of the art research. This is meant for students with some experience, as we will be reading cutting edge papers. We also have a research group which works closely with the club’s officers to aim for a publication at a top ML/CV conference (CVPR, NIPS, etc.). Publications The Research Paper The Research Paper (TRP) is an independent open-access student-run publication featuring undergraduate researchers throughout Cornell University. Published twice a year, TRP highlights how Cornell students extend their academic interests beyond the classroom. Our magazine is designed to appeal to those with an interest in undergraduate research, from students and teachers to scientists, administrators, and the community. Since 2000, we have been promoting topical stories from all areas of research on our diverse campus. First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting Helpful Resources Student Activities Office Cornell Undergraduate Research Board First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting nextprevious Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.