Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Affordability & Aid Having broad representation of perspectives—in our residence halls, our labs and classrooms, and across our campus—is critical to Columbia’s culture. The more voices we hear, the more we learn and the better we understand. So we seek out intellectually curious minds from all walks of life and socioeconomic backgrounds—across the country and around the world—who will contribute to, and profit from the Core Curriculum and the total Columbia experience. Cost & Aid Columbia's Cost of Attendance Cost Calculators See how much financial aid your family may qualify for. Applying for Aid Find out more about Financial Aid application requirements. Quick Links Financial Aid and Educational Financing Applications Fees and Fee Waivers Undocumented and DACA students International Financial Aid Student Financial Services Image fact: $2,000 Start-up grant for incoming first-year students from low-income families fact: Free tuition for students coming from families with annual incomes of less than $150,000 fact: $0 Parent contribution for students coming from families with incomes of less than $66,000 annually fact: No loans Loans are not used to meet financial need or included in initial financial aid awards Image It's your ability that matters, not your ability to pay. What matters most to us is your ability to thrive at Columbia, not your ability to pay for it. We are committed to making Columbia’s opportunities accessible for all our students. If cost is a concern for your family, we encourage you to apply for financial aid. Learn more about the Types of Aid you may receive in your financial aid award. Free tuition. $177 million in aid. No loans. If your family’s annual income is less than $150,000, you will be able to attend Columbia tuition-free. Columbia typically awards over $177 million in scholarships and grants. In fact, we offer some of the most generous financial aid of any college in the United States, and students are often surprised by how much they receive. In many instances, Columbia is actually more affordable than public colleges and universities. Financial aid packages consist of work study, as well as grants, which are need-based scholarships that do not have to be paid back. There are no loans included in your financial aid package, and you can graduate debt-free. Estimate your net cost Image Need-Blind admissions We are need-blind for US citizens, eligible non-citizens and undocumented students, which means you are considered for admission without regard for your ability to pay for your education. Foreign citizens applying for aid are reviewed in a more need-aware process, but many of our foreign citizens receive significant financial aid. Explore cost & aid fact: 50% of Columbia undergraduates receive financial aid fact: 18% of Columbia students are the first generation in their families to go to college fact: $62,850 average total grants and scholarships in a Columbia financial aid package fact: 2,191 students to date have participated in our Funding Programs or Work Exemption Program Image 100% of need covered. $0 parent contribution. Start-up grants. If you’re a first-year student or a transfer student pursuing your first degree, Columbia covers 100 percent of your demonstrated need for all four years that you are here. If your family’s annual income is less than $66,000 a year, your parents are not expected to contribute to the cost of attendance. Almost 40 percent of financial aid recipients have a parent contribution under $5,000. Incoming first-year students from low-income families will receive a start-up grant of $2,000 to ease their transition to college. student: Leveraging Columbia's free Passport to Museums program has quite literally opened doors to several museums I never knew I could visit. Aiman N. Danvers, MA Mechanical Engineering and Energy Systems Affordability that doesn’t end with your aid letter. Cost shouldn't be a barrier to making the most of Columbia's opportunities—on campus, in New York or around the globe. From your residence hall to the Center for Career Education, there are resources on campus to allow you to take advantage of everything Columbia has to offer. 95% of students have at least 1 internship during their time at Columbia Free laundry in Columbia residence halls The Work Exemption Program offers students a grant to support their pursuit of unpaid or low-paid internships, research projects and community outreach There are hundreds of work opportunities available on campus—you could be a research assistant, assist with web development for the university, support an athletics team on game day and much more! Free entry to 30+ museums with the Arts Initiative, just one of the ways Columbia opens doors to New York Over 200 study abroad programs—and your financial aid travels with you during the academic year Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube