Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home How to Apply International Applicants Columbia’s admissions process is largely the same for everyone, regardless of citizenship or country of residence. Home to one of the most internationally diverse student bodies in the country, our admissions staff have experience evaluating applications from a range of countries, educational backgrounds, and school systems. We’re committed to reviewing each application with care, with the goal of selecting the candidates who will most benefit from—and contribute to—the Columbia experience. A note on international application review Members of the admissions office staff have read and evaluated applications from all over the world, and we’re familiar with a variety of school systems and transcripts. All applications are reviewed by region. Included with your secondary school report is a "school profile," which includes a description of the school, grading system, curricular and extracurricular resources. If we need more information to make an informed decision or have any questions, we have the option to contact your school and to do our own research. Columbia accepts all secondary school curricula (e.g., International Baccalaureate, Cambridge A Levels, National School curricula, etc.) and applications are reviewed within the context of your curriculum. Internal and external exam results—such as A Level, International Baccalaureate, French Baccalaureate, Advanced Placement (AP) exams, and other final national exam results—must be submitted if they are required to complete and graduate from secondary school. If they are not required for the completion of and graduation from secondary school, you are not required to submit results. Please be aware that Columbia Undergraduate Admissions does not authorize or work with any independent agents anywhere in the world for our recruitment efforts. Students at non-English speaking schools Any documents within your application file that are not in English, such as transcripts or recommendations, must be officially translated into English and submitted along with the original documents. English Language Proficiency Requirement To be considered for admission to Columbia, you must be comfortable with rapid and idiomatic spoken English. Please review our English Proficiency Requirements for more detail. International Transfer Students Columbia welcomes applications from international transfer students. In order to be eligible to apply as a transfer, you must be enrolled in a college in North America or in a US-style college abroad. A college or university is considered "US-style" if: courses are offered term by term (quarters, semesters, etc) a grade is given for each course in each term your college/university can provide an English-language transcript showing those courses and those grades To apply from abroad if your college is not US-style as defined above, you must apply as a first-year student only in your first year of study. If you have begun your second year of study or beyond, you are no longer eligible to apply to Columbia as an undergraduate. Post-secondary work can be considered for possible transfer credit after you are admitted to Columbia and accept our offer. You must fulfill our English Language Proficiency requirements, in addition to the Transfer Admission requirements to apply for transfer admission. Understanding the Process How to Apply English Proficiency Requirements Image Quick Links First year applicants Transfer applicants Combined Plan applicants Affordability & Aid In This Section International Financial Aid Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube