Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Study Away COVID-19 Updates Check for the latest Study Away updates here. Stanford Bing Overseas Studies Program Search this site Submit Search Menu Get Started Study Away Overview Compare All Study Away Programs Financing Study Away Select your Program by Internship Opportunities Explore Programs Australia Australia Home Australia Overview Approaching Australia Key Dates What I Did in Australia Allen Huang Jordan Ferré Megan Hirsch Prerequisites Meet the Faculty Individual Research Projects Search Courses Berlin Berlin Home Berlin Overview Approaching Berlin Key Dates What I Did in Berlin Justin-Casimir Braun Josie Flohr Demetri Maxim Kyle Feliciano Related On-Campus Courses Language Prerequisite Meet the Berlin Faculty Research Internships Overview Requirements for Participation How to Apply Application Timeline Selected Profiles of Past Interns Receiving Course Credit Internship FAQs Contact Photo Gallery Search Courses Cape Town Cape Town Home Cape Town Overview Approaching Cape Town Key Dates What I Did in Cape Town Paloma Moreno Jimenez Hana Tadesse Cape Town Organizational Projects Meet the Faculty Search Courses Florence Florence Home Academics On-Site Requirements Learning Italian in Florence Meet Our Instructors Benefits by Major Search Courses Key Dates Engage Activities Student Life BOSP Florence Gallery Florence Program Highlights Student Voices from Florence Alyssa Diaz Iris Haik Natalie Adams-Menendez Aracely Valencia Alex Li Before You Go Faculty Voices Rob Reich: Thoughts on Florence Resources for BOSP Florence Students Hong Kong Hong Kong Home Hong Kong Overview Approaching Hong Kong Key Dates Meet the Hong Kong Faculty Research and Internships Search Courses Istanbul Istanbul Home Program Overview What I Did in Istanbul Johannah Brady Sricharana Muppidi Istanbul Key Dates Research and Internships Search Courses Kyoto Kyoto Home Why Study in Kyoto? Overview Related On-Campus Courses Housing in Kyoto Key Dates What I Did in Kyoto Daniel Chiu Chyna Mays Varun Subramaniam Language Prerequisite Meet the Faculty Summer Internships Internships Overview Recent Student Experiences Recent Host Organizations Search Courses Kyoto (KCJS) Madrid Madrid Home Madrid Overview Approaching Madrid Key Dates What I Did in Madrid Madison Houston Clara MacAvoy Luis Quiroga Maggie Roache Madrid Language Prerequisite Meet the Madrid Faculty Research and Internships Search Courses New York Stanford in New York Home About SiNY Faculty and Staff Rosina S. Miller Mohammed Badi Emily Bell Matt Boggie Jonathan Bronson Richard Gowan Danielle Jackson Joshua Jelly-Schapiro Kay Kostopoulos Chiseche Mibenge Mark Oldman Julie Orringer James S. Russell Internships Placement Guide Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) What I Did in New York Apply for SiNY Key Dates The New York City Seminar Autumn Quarter on the Arts, Architecture, Design, and Urban Studies The New York City Seminar The Agile City Imaging Change: Global Arts and Social Change Performing New York Autumn Quarter Internships Walking New York City Writing in the City Winter Quarter on Media, Business, and Finance The New York City Seminar Disrupting the News Finance in New York Ingenious Entrepreneurship Trust and Media Winter Quarter Internships Spring Quarter: The Global City The New York City Seminar Just Art: Equity, Immigration and Art in the Global City Practical Business Safe Cities: A Study of Institutional Responses to Gender Based Violence in the Global City The UN in Action Spring Quarter Internships Galleries Call for Art Previous Galleries Stop. Motion. Stanford Artists Around New York. SiNY Events SiNY Past Events Archive Oxford Oxford Home Oxford Overview Related On-Campus Courses Approaching Oxford Key Dates What I Did in Oxford Komal Kumar Natassia Walley Bing Trips Prerequisites Tutorials Tutorial Choice Overview Humanities English Language and Literature Mathematical, Physical, and Life Sciences Medical Sciences Social Sciences Meet the Faculty Research and Internships Search Courses Paris Paris Home Paris Overview Coursework at Local Partner Institutions in Paris Related On-Campus Courses Approaching Paris Paris Accommodations FAQs Key Dates Planning Your Time in Paris Paris Winter Program FAQs What I Did in Paris Mwengwe Mpekansambo Language Prerequisite Meet the Paris Faculty Research and Internships STEM Research Internship Opportunities in Paris Search Courses Santiago Santiago Home Santiago Overview Approaching Santiago Key Dates Related On-Campus Courses What I Did in Santiago Sean Gallagher Melissa Santos Language Prerequisite Meet the Faculty Volunteering and Internship Opportunities Search Courses Non-Stanford Study Abroad Opportunities Non-Stanford Study Abroad Opportunities Home 10-Step Guide to Non-Stanford Study Abroad Request Transfer Credit For Coursework Completed Abroad Transfer Credit FAQs Short-Term Programs Short-Term Programs Home Overview Explore Short-Term Programs Community Health in Oaxaca Coral Reefs of Palau: Marine Environment, Ecology and Conservation Exploring Israel’s Innovation Ecosystem for Sustaining Human & Planetary Health Faith, Science, and the Classical Tradition in Renaissance Florence Interdisciplinary Introduction to African Urban Studies Introduction to Japan: History, Religion, Culture Jordanian Futurities between Ancient Antiquities and Performances of Urban Life Shades of grey between life and death: Neuro-ethics across the Pacific St. Petersburg: Imagining a City, Building a City Health and Safety How to Apply Short-Term Programs (FAQs) Search Courses Advising Student Ambassadors Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Apply Application Process Participation Agreement Application Portal Prepare Pre-Departure Videos Passports and Visas Passports Visas Extensions and Withdrawals Health and Safety Health Insurance Health Planning and Risks Safety Registration and Academics Axess Instructions Student Policies Parents and Family Parents and Family FAQs Tips for Parents and Family Travel Guidelines Diversity and Identity Questions Resources Vote While Abroad Return Re-Entry Future Opportunities BOSP Photo Contest Teach Faculty in Residence Apply for Faculty in Residence Faculty Handbooks Short-Term Faculty-Led Programs Apply to be a Faculty Leader Faculty Leader Role and Responsibilities About Us Stanford Staff Listing Stanford Program in Australia Stanford Program in Berlin Stanford Program in Cape Town Stanford Program in Florence Stanford Program in Hong Kong Stanford Program in Istanbul Stanford Program in Kyoto Stanford Program in Madrid Stanford in New York Stanford Program in Oxford Stanford Program in Paris Stanford Program in Santiago Annual Reports Abroad Alumni Newsletter Support the Program Parents and Family Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Pre-Departure Videos Passports and Visas Extensions and Withdrawals Health and Safety Registration and Academics Student Policies Parents and Family Parents and Family FAQs Tips for Parents and Family Travel Guidelines Diversity and Identity Vote While Abroad Main content start As parents, you may have some questions about how the Bing Overseas Studies Program (BOSP) at Stanford helps and prepares your student to study abroad. However, due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), BOSP staff is prohibited from discussing individual student issues directly with parents and family. Please encourage your student to communicate directly with our staff regarding your questions or concerns. That said, we put together an overview of the study abroad process, included some helpful links, and a few resources such as tips for parents and family to give you a better idea how you can best support your student before, during, and after he or she studies abroad. Exploring BOSP Programs BOSP offers your student many study abroad opportunities including quarter length programs, overseas seminars, and internships. See our Study Abroad Overview to explore all of these opportunities. BOSP also provides study abroad advising for every BOSP program as well as other information such as Courses, Faculty-in-Residence, Language Prerequisite FAQs, Internship Opportunities and Important Program Dates that students should consider before choosing a program. All BOSP programs offer direct Stanford credit for courses. Many BOSP courses fulfill General Education Requirements and frequently count toward one or more majors. Stanford Faculty-in-Residence teach abroad in most BOSP quarter length program. Many BOSP programs offer internship and service learning opportunities! Take Action: Help your student consider all of the opportunities BOSP offers and research them; there might be a “best-fit” program that he or she hadn’t even considered before. Financing Study Abroad Stanford is committed to providing undergraduates the opportunity to study abroad with BOSP, regardless of financial circumstances. To view a breakdown of the cost comparisons of a quarter studying abroad vs. a quarter on campus, and other financial resources visit Financing Study Abroad. Regular Stanford tuition applies. Financial Aid continues and aid packages are automatically adjusted in accordance with differences in travel and personal expenses while abroad, taking into consideration a student’s inability to work while out of the country. Take action: Have your student contact the Financial Aid Office (FAO) to find out what financial assistance may be available. Application Process Students need to submit an application two quarters in advance for all programs (except for the Overseas Summer Seminars, which have an application deadline during Autumn Quarter). BOSP strongly encourages students to spend more than one quarter abroad, if possible. Students can apply to and participate in multiple quarter-length programs abroad. They can extend their quarter abroad to two or three quarters depending upon the program and quarter without reapplying. Additional internship/research/course opportunities may be available Higher level of language fluency and cultural understanding Explore and immerse in a different culture and achieving language literacy Gaining substantive understanding of other perspectives in the world that deepen a student's awareness of him/herself, his/her educational goals, and his/her own society. Take Action: Help your student consider the benefits of studying abroad for two quarters. BOSP Preparing Students and Setting Expectations Stanford University believes that students are ultimately responsible for preparing themselves to study abroad and for making the most of their time overseas. This responsibility encompasses but is not limited to: A wide range of mandatory participation requirements: Complete and pass the minimum language or academic prerequisite prior to the first day of the quarter in an overseas program or the arrival date for an Overseas Seminar, Other Programs (this does not include non-Stanford study abroad programs), and/or our Consortium Programs. Be in good academic standing prior to the first day of the start of the overseas program. Submit all required materials by the deadline established by the Bing Overseas Studies Program. Policies and Standards: Upholding Stanford University policies, rules and regulations, and meeting academic requirements. Completing all the necessary steps to obtain a visa (if required) in a timely manner and responsible for associated costs and for complying with the terms of the visa. Obtaining and maintaining health insurance coverage equal to or greater than that offered by the Stanford Cardinal Care plan. Said coverage shall, at a minimum, include coverage for medical care and treatment outside the United States and coverage for both medical evacuation and repatriation of remains. Should the policies and standards not be upheld by the student, the student MUST provide timely notice OR at the sole discretion of the Bing Overseas Studies Program after providing timely notice, they may be (involuntarily) withdrawn from the program and subject to late withdrawal penalties. This is to ensure fairness to all students on the program and program waitlist. Take Action: Help support your student prepare for studying abroad by coming up with a communication plan together. See our Tips for Parents and Family page to get started. Returning to Stanford Returning to Stanford after studying abroad can be challenging for your student who might have trouble re-adjusting to campus life and re-assimilating into American culture. After studying abroad, your student might have different goals, academic or career plans. They might also want to consider taking advantage of other opportunities at Stanford or abroad and/or become an active part of BOSP's growing alumni network. There are important steps your student will need to take before he or she returns to Stanford: enrollment in axess, housing and dining, university billing and financial aid. For more information, see our Before You Return page. Re-entry shock and other difficulties re-adjusting to campus are challenges your student might face. Read about Re-entry and how a student might prepare him or herself to return and transition back to campus. Returning students often apply for scholarship and fellowships and take advantage of many Future Opportunities abroad, including research, working, studying, teaching, and volunteering. Your student can stay connected as an alum to his or her study abroad experience by reading about exciting program updates and changes in our Abroad Alumni Newsletter. Take Action: You can play a very positive role in your student's transition back to campus by taking a personal interest in actively listening and learning about his or her abroad experience abroad. Stanford Bing Overseas Studies Program Web Login Address Bing Overseas Studies Program Sweet Hall, Ground Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3089 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us BOSP Facebook BOSP Instagram BOSP Twitter BOSP Youtube Quick Links About Us and Program Center Contacts Staff Listing for BOSP at Stanford Student Ambassadors Subscribe to BOSP's mailing list to receive more information about programs, application deadlines, and events. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top