Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > About Research Home About Research Defining Research Defining research is as difficult as explaining how gravity works. We are aware of its tremendous effects, yet it’s hard to begin explaining all its complexities. Webster defines research: Middle French recerche, to go about seeking careful or diligent search studious inquiry or examination; especially investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery and interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories or laws the collecting of information about a particular subject Research is not a short term endeavor. Research is a process. Research takes time to do well–it can be a powerful tool to solve problems and change the course of our world. Students at Cornell get involved in research in many ways. Some get excited by what they learn in courses, others have well-defined interests and others are learning skills they will need in their future careers. Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills nextprevious Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.