Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid The cost of a Columbia education will vary depending on your particular circumstances, and we encourage you to use our cost estimator tools to plan for your educational expenses with the most accurate information available to you. Still, it’s helpful to have some baseline facts and figures to start with as a frame of reference. Below, you’ll find the estimated total cost of attendance for academic year 2022-2023, as well as insights on scholarships and grants the University provides to make sure that Columbia truly is affordable for everyone. student: I come from a first-generation, low-income, single-parent household, so finding a school that was able to support me and my family was really important. Columbia offers so many great opportunities and resources, but support is phenomenal as well. I truly feel that all of the faculty staff want to see students succeed, and will do what they can to help make this possible. Emily M. Los Angles, CA Mechanical Engineering with a minor in Earth and Environmental Engineering Grants & aid Students coming from families with annual incomes less than $150,000 are able to attend Columbia tuition-free. Columbia awards more than $177 million annually in scholarships and grants from all sources. 50% of Columbia students receive grants from Columbia and the average amount awarded is $62,850. 19% of Columbia’s incoming undergraduates receive the Pell Grant, a Federal Grant reserved for the students with the highest need in the country. Incoming first-year students from low-income families receive a start-up grant of $2,000 to ease their transition to college. Students are expected to borrow $0 to attend Columbia. In Financial Aid and Educational Financing, our primary goal is to work with you and your family in developing a plan to pay for your education. We are here to help you understand the costs and explore your financing options, and we will be here to assist you throughout your entire time at Columbia. Please do not hesitate to contact us if we can be of any assistance in your planning. We understand that financing your education can be among the most daunting parts of the college journey. But with dedicated staff and one of the most generous financial aid programs in the country, we want to assure you that we’re here to help—and that cost should never be a barrier to attending Columbia. student: I worked as a Teaching Fellow with Breakthrough Houston and the Center for Career Education's Summer Funding Program's support for living and personal expenses helped make it such a memorable experience. Blessing U. Houston, TX Theatre and Education Studies Cost of attendance Tuition and fees: $65,524 New student fees: $615 Room and board: $16,156 Books and personal: $3,672 Total cost of attendance: $85,967 These figures are the basis for determining financial aid eligibility, although individual student expenses may vary. The room and board figure represents a first-year student living on campus for the full year. Room and board for non-first year students is based on the standard room charge and Meal Plan B. Students who choose to live off campus will have the same allowance for their out-of-pocket housing and meal expenses. Visit Student Financial Services for more details on cost of attendance. Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube