Skip to main content Division of Academic and Student Affairs Office of Undergraduate Research Menu Close About Us About Us Our Staff Meet with Us Fast Facts Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion in Undergraduate Research Getting Started/Funding Getting Started Research Awards (Project Funding) OUR Federal Work-Study Research Assistant Positions Travel Awards External Funding Opportunities Become a Research Ambassador Events and Presenting Conferences Connect NC State Undergraduate Research & Creativity Symposium Summer Research Programs and REUs 2022 Summer Research Programs at NC State Research Abroad Partners Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR) Citizen Science STEM Journal Club Faculty/Mentors Faculty/Mentors Faculty, Post-Doc, Graduate OUR Engagement Opportunities Federal Work-Study Research Assistant Program Michael Dickey Outstanding Research Mentor Award Summer Research Programs and REU’s Toolkit Resources for Faculty/Mentors Resource Library Reference and Training Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Structure of a Research Paper Giving to OUR About Us About Us About Us Our Staff Meet with Us Fast Facts Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion in Undergraduate Research Getting Started/Funding Getting Started/Funding Getting Started Research Awards (Project Funding) OUR Federal Work-Study Research Assistant Positions Travel Awards External Funding Opportunities Opportunities Become a Research Ambassador Events and Presenting Events and Presenting Conferences Connect NC State Undergraduate Research & Creativity Symposium Summer Research Programs and REUs 2022 Summer Research Programs at NC State Research Abroad Partners Partners Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR) Citizen Science STEM Journal Club Faculty/Mentors Faculty/Mentors Faculty/Mentors Faculty, Post-Doc, Graduate OUR Engagement Opportunities Federal Work-Study Research Assistant Program Michael Dickey Outstanding Research Mentor Award Summer Research Programs and REU’s Toolkit Resources for Faculty/Mentors Resource Library Resource Library Reference and Training Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Structure of a Research Paper Giving to OUR Office of Undergraduate Research We work to support and promote discovery-, inquiry-, scholarly- and creativity-based opportunities through mentored research experiences. Featured UPCOMING Events Envisioning Research Contest Put your research on display and you could win a cash prize! Application closes June 19 Read more Summer Seminar Series The OUR will host three research-related professional development seminars over the SU22 terms. Click “read more” to find info on the session topics, dates, times, etc. All are welcome! Read more Fall Awards Templates are provided and additional information can be found using the link below. Application closes July 8 Help sessions will be held June 10 and June 20. You can drop in for five minutes or the full hour. – June 10, 10:30-11:30 am, email Dr. Showalter for the zoom link – June 20, 9:00-10:00 am, email Dr. Showalter for the zoom link Read more QUICK LINKS Get Started Looking for tips on how to get involved in research? We have great resources for you. Read more Find a Mentor NC State is a top research university that overcomes global challenges. Exploring and contacting research mentors is a key component of getting involved. Read more Meet with Us Our team of staff and students are excited to meet with you and help you navigate research at NC State. Read more Apply for Funding Our funding supports a wide variety of undergraduate research and creative activity. Read more Share Your Work Undergraduate students present and publish their projects all over the world. Check out all the ways you can share your work. Read more Resource Library From presentation tips to research ethics, our resource library offers articles, videos, and short “how-to” presentations. Read more Student Stories Envisioning Research winner and OUR Ambassador Kaitlyn Tiffany discusses her research in Paleontology. Explore student stories! 2022 Fall Awards Submissions close July 8! Consult with your mentor, follow posted instructions, and use the available templates when creating proposals. Proposal help sessions will be available: June 10 from 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. on Zoom (email for link) June 20 from 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. on Zoom (email for link) OR by appointment with Dr. Showalter SEE INFO HERE RECENT STORIES Find all OUR latest news on DASA News Our most recent news feed is located on the Division of Academic and Student Affairs News website. Read more Mentor Stories Meet the Mentors Our faculty and campus partners serve as phenomenal resources and guides for student researchers. Office of Undergraduate Research Home DH Hill Jr. Library, Suite 2425 Campus Box 7576 2205 Hillsborough Street Raleigh, NC 27695-7576 undergraduate-research@ncsu.edu Join OUR Google Group 919.513.0095 Google Directions Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback Staff Login Connect With Us Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.