Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Approaching Stanford Search this site Submit Search Menu Home First-Years Advising & Enrollment Academic Calendar Course Planning Enrollment Timeline Placement Tests & Diagnostics Dates & Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Student Handbook Summer Mailing Summer Newsletters Summer Programs Transfers Dates & Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Student Handbook Summer Newsletters Parents & Guardians Academic Calendar Campus Resources Families Website Frequently Asked Questions Summer Newsletters New Student Orientation Contact Meet the Team Welcome to Stanford! We have been eagerly awaiting you and are delighted that you have chosen to spend the next few years here with us on the Farm. Main content start Class of 2026 & Transfers Welcome! We are excited to welcome you to our Stanford family and help you prepare for your first year on The Farm. If you have not done so yet, please create your Stanford University Network ID (SUNet ID). Once Approaching Stanford begins, you will need to use your SUNet ID to check your Stanford email account and to complete your Approaching Stanford Requirements. All Approaching Stanford and official university communications will be sent to your Stanford email account. Approaching Stanford Approaching Stanford is the process that guides all new undergraduates in the transition to life on The Farm. Throughout the summer, you'll be introduced to the Stanford community while completing your New Student Requirements (health forms, housing application, first-year course preferences, and more). The process culminates with New Student Orientation when you move to campus in September. First-Years Move-In & New Student Orientation We are excited to welcome you campus! Move-In and New Student Orientation will take place the week before the start of Autumn Quarter. State and county health conditions permitting, Move-In Day for new students will be Tuesday, September 20, 2022. NSO will be September 21-25, 2022. All new students are required to live on campus and participate in New Student Orientation. Schedule details will be published online later in the summer. NSO Approaching Stanford Handbook The Approaching Stanford Handbook is our primary resource for introducing students and families to Stanford. Review detailed information about policies, academics, campus life, and resources. Click "Open" to view larger. Embed Code Stanford Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Stanford sits on the ancestral land of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe. This land was and continues to be of great importance to the Ohlone people. Consistent with our values of community and inclusion, we have a responsibility to acknowledge, honor, and make visible the University’s relationship to Native peoples. Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues. Stanford Approaching Stanford Web Login Address Approaching Stanford 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Connect with Us Meet the Team Contact Us Links About VPUE About Academic Advising Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top