Skip to content Support Research Contact About Research Defining Research Why Perform Research at Cornell? Student Research by the Numbers Is Research for You? In the Beginning: What to Consider Research Skills Getting Started First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Student Clubs & Related Groups Recognition for Research Troubleshooting Research Opportunities Cross-Institutional Initiatives Academic Year Opportunities Summer Opportunities Weill Medical Opportunities Research Highlights Student Profiles Research Spotlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu facebook RSS Search Undergrad Research Cornell Cornell University Office of Undergraduate Research About Research Getting Started Research Opportunities Research Highlights Support Research Contact facebook RSS Menu Search Undergrad Research Cornell < > Getting Started Home Getting Started Academic Credit Many students earn credit for undergraduate research they do at Cornell during the academic year. Credit is not given for research done off-campus, unless it is done with a Cornell professor who is working off-campus. Contact your college undergraduate research advisor for more information about credit in your area of study. There are limits to the amount of research credit that you can earn. Courses A number of colleges and majors have courses designated for students conducting research. Expect that there will be conditions for how credit is earned. For example, the course may be S/U only and it may carry 2-3 credits. Research course requirements vary across disciplines, but expectations are likely to be similar to standard lecture courses: you will be expected to read scholarship relevant to the project and learn relevant research techniques, skills or approaches. Research Supervisors Your research supervisor will help you set goals and plan your work. The amount of credit you receive, how many hours you work per week for that credit, and how you report your progress will be determined by the faculty member supervising your research. There is a general rule of understanding at Cornell that each credit hour is worth 3 hours of work per week, but many faculty will want you to work 4 or even 5 hours per week for each credit. In advance, discuss your faculty supervisor’s expectations for a “satisfactory” versus an “unsatisfactory” grade. First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting Also See Cornell Undergraduate Research Advisors First Steps Types of Positions Academic Credit Research Funding Recognition for Research Student Clubs & Related Groups Troubleshooting Also See Cornell Undergraduate Research Advisors nextprevious Home Contact Web Accessibility © 2022. Office of Undergraduate Research at Cornell University.