Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Visit Columbia Visits You Each fall, representatives from Columbia Undergraduate Admissions travel extensively to introduce Columbia University to prospective students. In addition to the many individual high school visits that take place around the world, admissions officers host public events where you can learn more about Columbia University. More information about upcoming events will be shared soon! Campus Visits There's nowhere quite like New York City, and nowhere quite like Columbia. Explore our one-of-a-kind campus and get to know our community when you visit campus. Learn more Academics Across departments, schools, and institutes, Columbians at every level are driven by a passion for discovery, working in the service of improving human understanding and the advancement of our global society. Learn more How to Apply The college application process is a time for reflection, research, aspiration and organization. When you’re ready to begin your Columbia journey, we’re ready to help, every step of the way. Learn more FAQs We can’t tell you the best street vendor in the city. Some things you have to learn for yourself. Other things? Give us a try. Learn more Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube