Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Affordability & Aid Applying for Aid Financial aid applications for Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students are processed by Columbia’s Financial Aid & Educational Financing office. You can learn more about the process and requirements on their site, but we’ve also assembled a quick summary of the steps you need to take below. Domestic students The following documents help us paint a detailed picture of how much and what types of aid you’ll need to make a Columbia education accessible. FAFSA: A form to be filled out in order to help determine your eligibility for federal and state financial aid, including Pell Grants, Federal Work Study, and Federal Direct Student Loans. CSS Profile: A form to be filled out in order to help determine your eligibility for institutional aid, including the Columbia University Grant. Parental tax returns or income documentation: A collection of documents to be submitted via College Board’s secure Institutional Documentation Service (IDOC). Learn more International students The following documents help us paint a detailed picture of how much and what kinds of aid you’ll need to be able to attend Columbia affordably. CSS Profile: A form to be filled out in order to help determine your eligibility for institutional aid, including the Columbia University Grant. Parental tax returns or income documentation: A collection of documents to be submitted via College Board’s secure Institutional Documentation Service (IDOC). Learn more Ready to begin your Columbia journey? Visit Understanding the Process How to Apply Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube