Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home Life at Columbia Beyond Columbia Tom Wolfe once said, “One belongs to New York instantly, one belongs to it as much in five minutes as in five years.” New York is a city bursting with possibilities and opportunities, all just waiting to be embraced. From world-class hospitals to world-shaping technology to world-changing ideas and a world-champion attitude, New York is truly one of a kind. It’s literary, culinary, contemporary, and classic—and as a Columbia student, you’ll make the most of it all. Where the whole world is just a subway ride away. This is a city of discovery, and virtually every subway stop is alive with possibility. Here, you’ll find more museums, theaters, galleries, restaurants, street vendors, cafes, clubs and performance venues than you could explore in a lifetime. Every day in New York offers glimpses into new worlds, each one an opportunity to gain new perspectives and continually re-shape who you are. Our Community Being Here Student Wellness Life at Columbia fact: 800 languages spoken fact: 1350 miles of bike lanes fact: 10,000+ street vendors fact: 25,000+ restaurants Once a technological marvel, now a technology megahub, New York is a city that’s redefining industries and reimagining the future—a living lab where your classroom learning becomes real world reality. Where you can find your focus, or focus on giving back through a wide range of civic engagement and service learning opportunities, in Morningside Heights and throughout the five boroughs. A place of endless possibility. Sometimes, it’s good to follow the crowd. Our NYC bucket list is well-traveled for a reason: it leads to some truly unforgettable experiences. Run in the NYC Marathon Walk across the Brooklyn Bridge Picnic in Sheep Meadow Marvel at the floats at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade Experience the wonder of the holiday windows on 5th Ave Fill your belly with the city’s finest morsels Smorgasburg in Brooklyn Join the live audience of the TODAY show, Good Morning America or Saturday Night Live Enjoy Italian food on Arthur Ave in the Bronx Ice skate in Bryant Park Stroll along the High Line Smell the flowers at the NY Botanical Garden in the Bronx Treat yourself to banana pudding at Magnolia Bakery See a Tony-winning show on Broadway Ride bikes around Governors Island Cheer for performers at Showtime at the Apollo Sing karaoke in Koreatown Browse antiques at the Hester Street Fair flea market in Lower East Side Take a free Staten Island Ferry ride Pick a team to cheer for: the Yankees or the Mets Ride the Wonder Wheel at Coney Island Browse books at the Strand Bookstore Stroll the boardwalk at Rockaway Beach in Queens Admire the stained glass at St. Patrick's Cathedral 24. Eat dumplings and egg custard tarts in Chinatown 25. Attend a poetry reading at Nuyorican Poets Cafe 26. Kayak on the Hudson River 27. Get spooked at the Halloween Parade in Greenwich Village 28. People-watch at a sidewalk cafe in Soho 29. Listen to a free jazz performance at Lincoln Center 30. Attend the Puerto Rican Day Parade 31. Share a crazy milkshake with a friend at Black Tap Craft Burgers 32. Attend the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree Lighting 33. Stay up late to see the immersive theatre experience Sleep No More 34. Cross your fingers and enter the lottery for Hamilton tickets 35. Enjoy an outdoor movie screening in Brooklyn Bridge Park 36. Laugh with some rising comedic stars at the People's Improv Theater or Comedy Cellar 37. Take advantage of New York Restaurant Week and sample different chefs 38. Walk all 32 miles of Manhattan’s shoreline as part of the Great Saunter 39. Stumble across movie and TV sets as you explore different neighborhoods 40. Watch a victory parade march down the Canyon of Heroes Where will Columbia Blue take you? student: A traditional residential campus in New York City: "Having a campus within a city is rare and special. We have an amazing home base that really cultivates community, and yet we also have easy access to New York City thanks to the subway line right outside the gates!" Mackenzie G. Great Falls, MT Sociology and Education student: In the world's greatest city: "I have attended three Broadway shows, which is definitely something I would never have expected. The tickets and transportation were all provided by Columbia, and I am grateful for the opportunity to go into the city, watch these spectacular performances and meet some of my amazing peers as we traveled together." Emily M. Los Angeles, CA Mechanical Engineering, Minor in Earth & Environmental Engineering student: In the world's greatest city: "Exploring New York City is one of my favorite pastimes. Leveraging Columbia's museum pass has opened doors (quite literally) to several museums I never knew I could visit. Learning from museums, attending exhibits and venturing out with friends has created memories I will cherish forever." Aiman N. Danvers, MA Mechanical Engineering Quick Links Internships Research Global Experiences Outcomes Internships Research Global Experiences Outcomes Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube