Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Overview Stanford is dedicated to ensuring that all students experience maximum success and gain the best access to the host of opportunities available to them at the university. Advising and Outreach Undergraduates seeking guidance, or interested in learning about internships, fellowships, and other opportunities that support diversity should contact Laura Selznick, Undergraduate Advising Director and the Special Assistant for Diversity Outreach. Fellowships and Programs Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Explore the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship which help students of great promise become scholars of the highest distinction. They will diversify the faculty of future ranks of the professorate and serve as role models for all youth. Learn more about the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship The Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans This fellowship provides opportunities for continuing generations of able and accomplished New Americans to achieve leadership in their chosen fields. Seniors or alumni who intend to pursue graduate and/or professional school, as well as first and second-year graduate students, may apply for this award. Undergraduates should consult with Laura Selznick if you are interested in applying. Refer to the Foundation website for further information and to apply. Stanford Diversity Exchange Look into the Stanford Diversity Exchange program which provides Stanford undergraduates the opportunity for an academic exchange with schools such as Morehouse College, Howard University, and Spelman College. See Also: Community Centers Diversity and First Gen Office Institute for Diversity in the Arts Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.