Skip to main content Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Open Search and Menu Main navigation Life at Columbia Our Community Being Here Beyond Columbia Student Wellness How to Apply Understanding the Process First-Year Applicants Transfer Applicants Combined Plan Applicants Visiting Students International Applicants Affordability & Aid Cost & Aid Cost Calculator Applying for Aid Academics Columbia College Columbia Engineering Outside the Classroom Visit Virtual Experiences Campus Visits Columbia Visits You Events Calendar Contact Us Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Follow Admissions on Social Media Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube Search Search for Open Search and Menu Breadcrumb Home How to Apply Visiting Students The Columbia College Visiting Student Program and the Visiting Student Program at Columbia Engineering are opportunities for students to broaden their college experience and supplement the undergraduate programs at their home institutions by studying at Columbia for up to two semesters. Eligibility & Alternatives If you’re interested in the Visiting Student Program at Columbia Engineering, but happen to attend a college or university outside of the United States, please apply via this separate application process. Columbia's School of Professional Studies also offers a Visiting Student Program—click to see a comparison chart to see which one is best for you! Dates & Deadlines The Visiting Student Program offers rolling admission. Applications will be reviewed as they are submitted. The earlier students apply, the sooner they will receive their decision, which will be 4-6 weeks after complete application submission. We encourage applicants to submit their complete applications at their earliest opportunity and before the final deadline. With rolling admission, applicants can find out their admission decision as early as 4 weeks after submission. Applications for Spring 2022 and Fall 2022 are now available. For Entry in Spring 2022, the final application deadline is November 15, 2021. For Entry in Fall 2022, the final application deadline is June 15, 2022. Financial Aid Please see the respective bulletins for the estimated cost (tuition and fees) for attending Columbia College and Columbia Engineering. Please note that there is no financial aid available from Columbia for Visiting Students; however, financial aid from your home institution may be transferable to Columbia, and you should consult with your home institution’s financial aid office. Accuracy & Authenticity All applicants should review our Accuracy & Authenticity statement prior to submitting their application, as all applicants to Columbia University must confirm on their application that they understand and agree to adhere to the above expectations. Contact For questions about undergraduate admission and the application process, please visit our online FAQs. If you still can't find your answer, please contact us or email us at ugrad-visiting@columbia.edu. In This Section Columbia College Visiting Student Program The Visiting Student Program at Columbia Engineering Columbia Undergraduate Admissions Main navigation Life at Columbia How to Apply Affordability & Aid Academics Visit Secondary navigation News & Updates FAQ For Parents & Guardians For Counselors Footer menu Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility University Policies 212 Hamilton Hall Mail Code 2807 1130 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 212-854-2522 ugrad-ask@columbia.edu Schools Columbia College Columbia Engineering Columbia University Columbia on Instagram Columbia Admissions on Twitter Facebook Group Columbia on YouTube