Skip to Main Content Brown University Healthy Brown Information for Undergraduate Students Search Menu Site Navigation Life on Campus Dining Housing Student Accessibility Services International Students Search Healthy Brown Information for Undergraduate Students Spring 2022 Study Abroad This page answers questions about support from Brown's Office of International Programs (OIP) for Spring 2022 study abroad programs administered by Brown, the Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA), and approved study abroad providers. Sub Navigation In This Section Spring 2022 Study Abroad Please click the links below to access program-specific FAQ sites: Brown in France Spring 2022 FAQ Brown in Italy Spring 2022 FAQ CASA Barcelona Spring 2022 FAQ CASA Granada Spring 2022 FAQ CASA Trinity College Dublin Spring 2022 FAQ Program Enrollment Information When will Brown pre-registration for Spring 2022 begin? What should I do if I withdraw from my study abroad program after pre-registration? Pre-registration dates vary by class year, and complete details are available on the 2021-22 Academic Calendar on the Brown Registrar's website. If you withdraw from studying abroad after pre-registration takes place, your OIP advisor will review the process with you and direct you to the College for further guidance. Visiting students should check with the study abroad office at their home institution for advice on  whether or not they should also register for on-campus courses at their home school.  I’m studying on an Approved/Petition program. Should I pay my program deposit? Contact your program directly for complete information about the program refund policy, including program deposits. Due to the uncertainty of COVID-19, some organizations are offering greater flexibility with program deposits and other financial commitments; however, each provider's policies will vary and students should inquire directly. Your Brown study abroad advisor is available to assist you in contacting your study abroad provider. Can I defer my application to future semesters if I choose not to study abroad this term? Your OIP advisor can assist you with deferring your application to another semester. We recommend that you first review your plans with your academic advisor and then contact your advisor at the OIP to discuss your plans. You may be able to reuse some of your previous application materials or you may need to submit new documents. If you were planning to study on an Approved/Petition program, you must also contact your study abroad program to request permission to defer your application and to discuss your options. Visiting students who planned to study through a Brown or CASA program should consult with their OIP program manager and with the study abroad office and academic advisor at their home institution about any plans to defer their application. If I am no longer able to study abroad this term, how do I withdraw from my program? Please email your OIP advisor as soon as possible so that they can review next steps and assist you with withdrawing from your program. Your withdrawal from a program is not official until the OIP receives your withdrawal request in writing. Withdrawing from a study abroad program may have financial consequences. Please carefully read the terms of participation and withdrawal policy for your particular study abroad program, as outlined by your program provider and by the OIP. You are responsible for the terms and conditions of all program-related forms, contracts, and documents that you signed. What COVID-related conduct requirements are in place for students? Students are required to sign a Code of Conduct specific to study abroad, that will outline expectations and consequences for any Code violations. The Code of Conduct will be reviewed during the OIP pre-departure sessions. If you are on an Approved/Petition program, you are also subject to the student conduct policies and procedures established by your program provider or host university. Visiting students may also be subject to the student conduct code of their home institution. Program Orientation & Operations Will there be a required pre-departure orientation? How will it be offered? The OIP will hold a required general pre-departure orientation for all Brown students in early December. Students will be sent more information on date, time, and location later in the semester. Visiting students should consult with their study abroad office about requirements at their home school. For students studying on Brown-administered or CASA programs, program-specific pre-departure orientation sessions will be held virtually and will be required for all program participants. If you are studying on an Approved/Petition program, please check with your study abroad program for information on pre departure orientation. Are family members able to attend remote orientation or pre-departure meetings? No, family members are not permitted to attend. The pre-departure meetings and orientation activities are designed for enrolled program participants only. Family members are welcome to contact the Brown Office of International Programs with any questions (oip@brown.edu). Will my in-country orientation be in-person or remote? Delivery methods for in-country mandatory orientation will vary depending on program and quarantine requirements. All Brown/CASA pre-departure orientation sessions will be conducted online. Are there any changes to program housing options for the 2021-2022 academic year? There are changes to housing options for the 2021-2022 academic year. Brown will not offer homestay options for its programs, and Brown students going abroad with partners will not be permitted to stay in homestays for the 2021-2022 academic year. Will I be required to attend in-person classes? Students on all programs will be expected to comply with the academic and other requirements of the program and host institutions. For Brown/CASA programs: In instances where a student feels unwell or if conditions shift to require remote-only instruction, the program director will implement a remote-learning plan. All sites have remote-learning plans, and some universities have modified their attendance policies to be more flexible. Students will receive detailed site-specific information during orientation. Will there be any modifications made to excursions for the Spring 2022 semester? For Brown/CASA Programs: In the majority of program locations, cultural activities and excursions have been adjusted to comply with government regulations and travel restrictions on-site; this may mean that substitute or altered versions of excursions will be provided. To minimize disruption, excursions will be planned in compliance with COVID rules and regulations on site — i.e. limited group size, outdoors, and within close proximity of the program site. For these same reasons, modifications may also need to occur after program schedules are shared. Students participating in approved programs should reach out to their program contacts about program-specific modifications. Will I be able to travel independently while on my program? Students on Brown/CASA programs are not permitted to travel outside of their host country. Students are required to seek permission from the Resident Director prior to traveling independently within their host country. Each student who is approved to travel independently is responsible for following local and regional health and safety guidelines, as well as respecting the program calendar (orientation and academic semester) and travel-related policies of their program. Before any independent travel, be sure to consult your program and host country guidelines around quarantine, testing and necessary documentation. Health & Safety What are my program's requirements around quarantine, testing, and required documentation? Requirements on quarantine, testing and necessary documentation change frequently and will vary based on your program location. Be sure to check the current requirements for your program and host country prior to your departure. Up-to-date country-specific travel restrictions and entry requirements can be found on the International SOS Pandemic website. Will I be required to be fully vaccinated to study abroad for Spring 2022? Yes. Brown requires COVID-19 vaccines for all undergraduate students, including students who are studying abroad. Medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Entry requirements for some countries may include proof of vaccination; please consult with your study abroad advisor if you have questions about your host country's requirements. How will I provide documentation of my vaccination status? Visiting students may email their proof of vaccination directly to Brown University Student Health Services at nursing@health.brown.edu. Is it possible to get a COVID-19 booster while studying abroad? Information about the requirements and availability of booster shots in other countries is still emerging so please consult with the resident staff of your study abroad programs. As announced in the University communication on December 14, 2021, Brown requires all students to receive the COVID-19 vaccination and once eligible, the COVID-19 booster shot prior to the beginning of the Spring 2022 semester. I’ve been tested regularly on my home campus, will I be required to continue testing once on site and if so, what frequency? Protocols for students who are fully vaccinated will continue to evolve. All students should plan to continue health protocols, such as wearing masks and social distancing, and to follow all public health recommendations and requirements of their program and host country authorities. Is there a chance that Brown might suspend a Brown or CASA program or rescind approval of an Approved/Petition program for health and safety reasons? The path of the pandemic continues to be unpredictable. Brown will continue to assess local public health conditions , and will endeavor to communicate any and all changes with students as soon as possible should they arise. Will Brown provide additional health insurance coverage specific to COVID? All students studying abroad on Brown-administered programs or Approved/Petition programs are covered under a blanket accident and sickness insurance policy that is coordinated through International SOS regardless of the student’s home institution. Some COVID-19 specific information currently is as follows: Medical care: If a student contracts COVID-19 and gets sick, their medical care would be covered under the accident/sickness insurance policy and coordinated through International SOS. Potential repatriation: The accident/sickness insurance policy would provide coverage for medical repatriation in the event of severe illness or hospitalization needed that is not available in the host country. There are no repatriation benefits for fear of contracting COVID-19 or as a result of travel restrictions. Costs for any medically-required repatriation are subject to approval by International SOS. What happens if my program site implements a strict lockdown? In the event that a strict lockdown is implemented, Brown/CASA programs plan to follow a shelter-in-place approach, which will include a transition to remote instruction. Students participating in approved programs should check in with their program contacts about program-specific plans. In the event that there are restrictions in place, will telehealth or other remote medical support be available to me? Medical and mental health consultations, including therapy sessions, can be provided virtually or by phone and will be arranged in conjunction with International SOS if program participants are not able to move about freely. What is required for me to return to the U.S.? As of December 6, 2021, the U.S. Government requires all air passengers entering the United States (including U.S. citizens, legal Permanent Residents, and non-immigrants) to present a negative COVID-19 viral test, taken no more than one day before boarding their flight to the U.S. Airline officials will confirm the negative test result or proof of recovery from COVID-19 for all passengers two years of age and over prior to boarding. Airlines must deny boarding of passengers who do not provide documentation of a negative test or recovery. Students are responsible for the cost of COVID-19 tests required for travel. Please see Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website for answers to questions about the requirement for proof of negative COVID-19 test or recovery from COVID-19 for all air passengers arriving in the United States. International students who are returning to their home country should consult with the appropriate government agency for information on COVID-related entry requirements. Students traveling to all other international destinations, including their home country, should refer to those respective national and local travel requirements and guidelines. Travel Planning What should I keep in mind when booking my international flight? Before booking your flights, we recommend that you review the airline’s policies on cancellation and change fees. If you are considering trip cancellation insurance, look into “Cancel for Any Reason” coverage when you book your flight, if it is available. Most general trip cancellation travel policies will not apply to cancelling due to the pandemic or coronavirus concerns. What happens if I decide to return to my home country after my program has started? If you decide to withdraw from your program, you are subject to your program's withdrawal and refund policies. Please consult with your study abroad advisor if you have any questions about your specific program's policies. What is required for me to return to the United States? Current policy from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) requires all air passengers entering the United States (including U.S. citizens, legal Permanent Residents and non-immigrants) to present a negative COVID-19 test, taken within three calendar days of departure or proof of recovery from the virus within the last 90 days. Airlines must confirm the negative test result or proof of recovery for all passengers two years of age and over prior to boarding. Airlines must deny boarding of passengers who do not provide documentation of a negative test or recovery. Students are responsible for the cost of COVID-19 tests required for travel. Please see CDC’s FAQ for answers to questions about the requirement for proof of negative COVID-19 test or recovery from COVID-19 for all air passengers arriving in the United States. International students who are returning to their home country should consult with the appropriate government agency for information on Covid-related entry requirements. Students traveling to all other international destinations, including their home country, should refer to those respective national and local travel requirements and guidelines. I have more questions. Who should I contact? We recognize that you may have some questions or concerns as you consider your plans for the fall semester. Please contact oip@brown.edu or email your OIP advisor directly. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Life on Campus Dining Housing Student Accessibility Services International Students All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Spring 2022 Study Abroad Open details for Spring 2022 Study Abroad Bookmark this Page