Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Stanford Undergrad Search form Search Main menu Academic Advising Academic Advising Approaching Stanford New Student Orientation Programs Autumn, Winter, Spring Civic, Liberal, and Global Education Education as Self-Fashioning Frosh 101/Transfer 101 ITALIC Introductory Seminars Oral Communication Program Program in Writing and Rhetoric Structured Liberal Education Ways of Thinking / Ways of Doing Summer Arts Intensive Bing Honors College Leland Scholars Sophomore College Summer Bridge Programs Off-Campus Bing Overseas Studies Program Community Engaged Learning Stanford in New York Opportunities & Research Research Research and Independent Projects Academic Excellence Awards and Graduation Honors Opportunities Arts Careers and Internships Diversity Outreach & Opportunities Humanities Leadership Public & Community Service Tutoring & Support Tutoring Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Peer Subject Tutoring and Language Conversation Practice Student-Athlete Tutorial Resources Other Tutoring and Learning Resources Support Academic Skills Stanford Learning Lab Community Center Resources For Faculty and Staff Covid-19 Resources x Careers and Internships Career and Internship Opportunities BEAM, Stanford Career Education Stanford Career Education supports you early and often through a network of career communities that help you explore opportunities and make meaningful connections. By providing customized support based on academic communities, the specialized staff helps you discover your career interests, interact with mentors, employers and alumni, and find opportunities, research, and on-campus jobs. Internship Information from BEAM Internships are pre-professional, career-related experience that can provide exposure, training, and mentorship in a given career field. Public Service Fellowships, Internships and Service Programs An online searchable database containing approximately 500 fellowships, internships and other established service programs collected from Internet and print resources. Stanford in New York Internship Opportunities View examples of the types of opportunities available in the Stanford in New York program. Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internship Program (SULI) SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory is a world-renowned laboratory with research opportunities in physics, chemistry, materials and environmental sciences, scientific computing, and many engineering fields. SLAC’s summer internship program offers exciting opportunities for undergraduate students majoring in science or engineering to conduct research. FSI Student Programs – Summer Internships The Freeman Spogli Institute (FSI) offers Global Policy internships and Field Research internships each summer. FSI provides placement, mentorship and a stipend to students engaging in off-campus internships at international policy and international affairs organizations. The internships are open to students at all levels and from all departments, with a preference for undergraduates entering their junior and senior years. Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities found within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. Need Help? vpue@stanford.edu (650) 723-4463 About VPUE Meet the Vice Provost Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Committees and Boards Find Us at Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305-3082 Connect With Us! Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.