Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Academic Advising Search this site Submit Search Menu Home Meet Your Advisors About Your Advisors Make an Appointment Staff Directory Incoming Students Approaching Stanford Designing Your First Quarter Exploring Your Stanford Courses Frosh 101 Information for Transfer Students Leland Scholars Program Current Students Academic Policy Academic Progress Requests for Exceptions Leaves of Absence Returning to Stanford Advising Resource Toolkit Reflection Throughout Your Time at Stanford Facing Challenges or Difficulty Academic Planning and Intellectual Development Post-Undergraduate Considerations Advising Student Handbook Academic Progress and Policy Course Planning: Basic Tips Course Planning: Expert Mode Enrollment and Using Axess About Introsems Getting Started In... Majors, Minors, Honors, and More Making Connections Doing Research Specific Student Populations Wellness, Resilience, and Academic Success Time Away from Stanford Coterms, Professional Schools, and Ph.D. Programs Choosing Courses Frosh-Friendly Courses One-Unit Wonders and Terrific Twos Courses for General Education Requirements Courses For Your Major My Stanford Story Exploring Stanford First Year Courses FLI at Stanford Frosh Reflections I Am Stanford Majors and Major Decisions Stanford Identities Wellness Stories Why I Teach My Stanford Story Index Specific Student Populations First-Gen/Low-Income (FLI) Students International Students Returning Students Student-Athletes NCAA Eligibility PAE for Student-Athletes Tutorial Resources Transfer Students Beyond Undergrad Considerations for Graduate and Professional Schools Coterminal Degrees Explore Coterm Programs FAQs for Coterms Applying to Coterms Forms for Coterms Degree Conferral Considerations Coterm Tuition and Funding Financial Aid Concerns Planning for Advanced Degrees in Education Planning for Business School Planning for Law School Getting Started Applying to Law School Resources for Pre-Law Students Planning for Medical School Curricular Recommendations Information for Applicants Resources for Pre-Health Students Stanford Immersion in Medicine Series (SIMS) Planning for Ph.D. Programs Faculty and Staff Academic and Extracurricular Options Academic Policy Academic Progress Expectations Requesting an Incomplete Requests for Exception Getting Started Specific Student Populations Working with FLI Students Working with International Students Working with Premed Students Working with Returning Students Working with Students with OAE Accommodations Working with Student-Athletes Supporting Students in Difficulty Advising Resource Toolkit Main navigation Skip to main content Secondary Navigation Academic Policy Advising Resource Toolkit Reflection Throughout Your Time at Stanford Facing Challenges or Difficulty Academic Planning and Intellectual Development Post-Undergraduate Considerations Advising Student Handbook Choosing Courses My Stanford Story Specific Student Populations Main content start These advising tools are intended to help frame your reflections throughout your time at Stanford, guide your strategic thinking if you face challenges or difficulty, facilitate your academic planning and intellectual development, and support you as you consider post-undergraduate education. They may be used cooperatively during an advising conversation or you may use them on your own, to help you prepare for a conversation with your Academic Advisor. Stanford offers a wealth of opportunities to grow and challenge yourself, both in and outside the classroom. The office of Academic Advising is dedicated to introducing you to the full richness of undergraduate study at Stanford, and to supporting you in your academic and intellectual pursuits. Your relationship with your Advisor(s) is an ongoing conversation and partnership that is ideally characterized by mutual respect, engagement, and responsiveness. You can get the most out of advising if you: Bring your questions, ideas, and reflections about what is working for you (and what isn’t) to your meetings, understanding that participation is a critical part of the advising conversation. Be open and honest about your background, specific academic or other goals you may have, as well as special needs or circumstances that may affect your experience. Be respectful of their time (and know that they will be respectful of yours). Keep your appointments, or notify your advisor in a timely fashion if you need to cancel or reschedule for any reason. Try to remain open to possibilities they suggest, but understand that you are the author of your own education. Reflection Throughout Your Time at Stanford These resources provide structure for you to pause and reflect on your Stanford experience. Talking through these prompts with your Academic Advisor—or working through them prior to an advising conversation—may help you contextualize your experiences, make plans, and set goals for yourself. It can also help you appreciate how far you have already come, and to take inventory of all you’re learning along the way. The First Year The Second Year The Third Year The Fourth Year Wellness, Well-Being and Academics Words of Wisdom: Reflection Back to top Facing Challenges or Difficulty Throughout your time at Stanford, you will challenge yourself academically, intellectually, or personally. As you do so, working with your Academic Advisor to develop strategies for facing difficulty, even disappointment, can help you navigate this natural part of the learning process. These resources may help frame those conversations and reflect on how you might use the insight and guidance provided. Academic Difficulty & Personal Challenge Academic Probation Academic Skills & Improvement Difficult Conversations Finishing an Incomplete Words of Wisdom: Challenges Back to top Academic Planning and Intellectual Development Intellectual development and identity may be forged in the making (and revision) of your academic plans. These tools are designed to help you connect seemingly disparate experiences, relationships, plans, and decisions with your education as a whole. Your Academic Advisor can help you by asking questions about what motivates you, what concerns you, what inspires you, and what thriving at Stanford means for you. Engaging with Faculty First Advising Conversation Intellectual Identity Leaving and Returning to Stanford Words of Wisdom: Academic Planning and Intellectual Development Back to top Post-undergraduate Considerations Becoming a lifelong learner can mean many different things, including formal study that continues beyond your time at Stanford. Stanford has a team of Academic Advisors who specialize in pre-professional advising and who have expertise in the process of preparing and applying for medical school, law school, business school, or graduate school. These resources are provided to help you prepare for advising conversations about post-undergraduate study. Post-Undergraduate Study Professional School Considerations Self-Assessment (Pre-Professional) Words of Wisdom: Post Undergraduate Considerations Back to top Stanford Academic Advising Web Login Address Academic Advising Sweet Hall, 1st Floor 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305-3082 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us (650) 723-2426 advising@stanford.edu Make an Appointment Links About VPUE About Academic Advising Academic Advising Intranet Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top