Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Benefits for Columbia University Student Employees Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Current Benefits Announcements and Updates FAQs Documents Benefits for Columbia University Student Employees Benefits for Student Employees Health and Dental Benefits for PhD Students Medical Coverage Dental Care Dependent Care Academic Support for PhD Students Tuition Remission Full Coverage of Most Fees Access to Guaranteed Housing Learn about compensation and student employee benefits for other students. Read More Frequently Asked Questions What’s the difference between PhD students on appointment and those not on appointment? Students on appointment as student officers have teaching or research duties for their departments, in addition to their academic program requirements. Read more. Who is eligible to join the Union? Any student included in the bargaining unit defined by the National Labor Relations Board is eligible to join Student Workers of Columbia-United Auto Workers. Read more. How do I find employment opportunities at Columbia? Students at Columbia University have a wide range of options for employment. Learn more. See All Announcements and Updates May 09, 2022 Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations The report proposes a definition of bullying and other abusive behavior, a remedial framework, and changes in culture and climate to help prevent such behavior. January 28, 2022 Contract with Student Workers of Columbia-UAW Ratified I am very pleased to report that Student Workers of Columbia-UAW has voted to ratify its first contract with the University. January 07, 2022 Tentative Agreement Reached With SWC-UAW The University and the Student Workers of Columbia-UAW reached a Tentative Agreement on a four-year labor contract and the strike ended today at noon. More News Office of the Provost311 Low Library, MC 4313, 535 W. 116th St. · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close