Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home SUE BUCKLEY TO RECEIVE INAUGURAL ALUMNI SERVICE AWARD Fri, 10/08/21 Hadley Oehlert SHARE: Share by Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on Twitter October 16th,2021 – LAWRENCE, KAN: The Memorial Union Gallery to host Service Award Ceremony at Homecoming. The Union Friends Organization has selected Sue Buckley as the first recipient of its Union Service Award at Homecoming. This event will take place on Saturday, October 16th at 11:00am. Sue Buckley served twelve years as Student Union Activities Program Manager from 1987 to 1999. During that period, programs rapidly expanded and the student participation swelled. Nirvana and Pearl Jam made legendary early appearances on campus under Sue’s stewardship. Sue received the 1991 CLASS Award for her leadership in student services at KU. Her dedication was most dramatically demonstrated in her care for students with the tragic loss of a student in May 1993, Sue proving instrumental in the establishment of the Alexis F. Dillard Student Involvement Award. Sue departed from the Union in fall 1999 for a career in the newly evolving tech world. Upon departure, she stated that “One of the biggest satisfactions of this job is being able to watch students become more confident…the growth is very dramatic, particularly at KU. We really create some close relationships and that by far the hardest part of the job is watching students graduate each year.” Her former students echo that in their appreciation of the learning and mentoring received under Sue. Sue Buckley is a native of the Kansas City suburbs, Sue spent twenty years in higher education as a Student Activities Director in Kansas and Colorado. She moved to a tech career in telephony and IT services, ultimately serving in the capacity of Vice President. Recently she started her own business and is CEO/Owner of City Publications Kansas City a direct mail solutions firm. UNION FRIENDS ORGANIZATION: The Union Friends Organization is composed of former KU alums dedicated to advocacy and fundraising for the Memorial Union, Student Union Activities, KJHK Student Radio and The Big Event. Its focus has been primarily scholarships, leadership training and program funding for students. Officers currently serving are Nathan Mack, President; Gabe Bliss, Vice President; Andrew Mechler, Secretary; and Marie Dispenza, Treasurer. Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.