Skip Navigation Student union Life Happens at the Union Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About Us Maps/Floor Plans Directory Calendar Hours Employment Blog Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramPinterestTwitter Get Involved Shopping Dining Plan an Event Student Union Blog Our top priority is the students, and we want to do everything we can to help you be successful. Check out these blogs, which provide tips, tricks and information relevant to student life at Oklahoma State. April Showers Bring May Flowers (and Finals) Spring has sprung, and campus is looking as beautiful as ever! Enjoy this season by driving everywhere with your windows down, do some studying outside or take a nice jog around Boomer Lake. This month’s blog has you covered on how to live your best life before finals come around. April 2019 Survive and Thrive Midterms and spring break are upon us. To have the best vacation possible, you need to do well on your exams before leaving for your trip. Keep reading to learn how to maintain a healthy mind and body leading up to midterms and the key essentials to pack for your spring break trip. March 2019 Valentine’s Day | Galentine’s Day | Feb. 14 Whether you’re excited about Valentine’s Day this year or are begging for February 14 to come and go, we’ve got you covered. Keep reading for tips to survive February, no matter if you’re celebrating Valentine’s Day, Galentine’s Day or just plain ol’ February 14. February 2019 New Year, New U Goodbye 2018, hello 2019! Who else keeps writing 2018 in their dates? Same. 😅 Well, whether we’re ready or not, 2019 is here, but with the new year comes new opportunities. Read this blog for advice for how to make the most of this year by starting off on a good note. January 2019 Stuffing, Studying and Strategizing November and December bring stuffing, studying and strategizing. Thanksgiving will take care of the stuffing, finals will take care of the studying and you will need to strategize to make sure the end of the semester goes well. Keep reading for tips to get you through the last month of the semester. It'll be busy! November 2018 Homecoming Get ready, because America's Greatest Homecoming is upon us, and we want you to be as prepared as possible before the festivities kick off. Take a look at this blog post for information about the Homecoming events happening in and around the Student Union. October 2018 Career Prep Career fairs, interviews, part-time jobs, internships. Yeah, it's that time of the year. September marks the time of transition from "welcome back!" to "OK, it's time to get your plans together for summer." See our list of tips and tricks to ace any interview or career fair. September 2018 Back to School August means back to school. Whether you're new at OSU this year, or you're returning for your fourth (or fifth - no judgment here from a current victory lapper), there's always something new for you to take advantage of to make this semester, and year, the best one yet. August 2018 CONTACT 301 Student Union Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078 405-744-5231 osuunion@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©