Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Visit Student Programs & Involvement Student Programs "I can't imagine where my college experience would have taken me if I hadn't stumbled into the Union during my freshman year. It's provided a place for community...It's an opportunity for students of all backgrounds to find a place of their own." Megan Bartlett President, KU Memorial Corporation Board 2019-2020 Student Union Activities Student Union Activities (SUA) is one of the largest student organizations at KU. SUA has been planning and programming events for the entire Jayhawk community for over 85 years. Events range from concerts, comedians, game tournaments, trivia nights, and more! Visit SUA Website The Big Event The Big Event connects KU campus with the Lawrence community by recruiting thousands of students, faculty, and staff volunteers to work at hundreds of local job sites during one day of service. Visit The Big Event Website KJHK 90.7 FM Broadcasting 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, KJHK 90.7 FM is the student-run radio station at the University of Kansas. The station has been the voice of independent radio in Lawrence since 1975. Visit the site to learn more about how you can participate or join the staff. Visit KJHK Website Kansas Esports In November 2019, the University of Kansas announced the first ever formation of a varsity level Esports team. The program was made possible through a partnership with KU Information Technology and Dell Technologies. About Kansas Esports University Tickets Browse Events Purchase or claim tickets to SUA events and more via University Tickets. Browse Tickets Additional Opportunities Rotary Youth Leadership Academy In its ongoing efforts to bring future Jayhawks to KU while learning valuable leadership skills, Union Programs works in partnership with Rotary International to present an annual summer Rotary Youth Leadership Academy. RYLA exists to provide Kansas high school students with a fun and educational week-long camp. Apply to be a RYLA Facilitator Rita Ravens Alexander Retreat The RRA Leadership Meet and Mingle is a 3-hour event hosted in the Kansas Union on Saturday, February 26, 2022. The Leadership Mingle will offer engaging activities, open dialogue, and community building with other campus leaders in a relaxed environment. Lunch is included, as well as door prizes! Register Here! LDST 320 Insert LDST blurb here. Get In Touch. FacebookInstagramTwitter Upcoming Events See all events Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.