Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Kansas Esports About Kansas Esports In November 2019, the University of Kansas announced the formation of a varsity level esports team. The Kansas Esports Team is competing in League of Legends. The KU Memorial Union provides program support and coaching as part of their ongoing efforts with student programs and events. The program was made possible through a partnership with KU Information Technology and Dell Technologies. NACE KU joined the National Association of Collegiate Esports (NACE). The National Association of Collegiate Esports (NACE) was formed in July of 2016 and is committed to helping their members grow strong esports programs to benefit colleges and students alike. As a member-driven organization, they formed to help legitimize collegiate esports by guiding members on starting varsity esports programs, providing a network of communication between administrators, a recruiting network and a collective voice representing almost all the institutions in the collegiate varsity esports space. Currently NACE counts more than 175 institutions as members, representing 94% of all varsity programs in across North America. ESPORTS STUDENT DESIGNED TEE Kansas Esports and Charlie Hustle limited edition tee Help celebrate the season kick off of Kansas Esports! Kansas Esports has created a limited edition tee designed by a KU alumnus. A portion of the proceeds of sales of the Kansas Esports tee will go directly to benefit the Esports program at KU. Click here to order online or the shirt will be available at the KU Bookstore. Thank you, Dell! The KU Memorial Union provides program support and coaching as part of their ongoing efforts with student programs and events. The program was made possible through a partnership with KU Information Technology and Dell Technologies. Join the team Think you have what it takes to play with the best? Fill out an interest form, and we'll be in touch. Esports Interest Form Watch the Kansas Esports Live Sign up for notifications on Twitch, and get notified when the Jayhawks are streaming. Twitch Follow along FacebookInstagramTwitter Upcoming Events See all events Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.