Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Event Services Danforth Chapel Guidelines In order to not incur charges for cleaning fees, clients must follow these guidelines. Decorations We welcome the use of decorations and flowers, however, please refrain from using any tape, glue, or nails. Only the use of battery operated or flameless candles are permitted. You are responsible for the removal of all decorations, flowers, packaging and delivery boxes used during your ceremony. Reservation Times Out of respect for the chapel, as well as other patrons, you are responsible for disposal of garbage and items brought into the chapel (i.e furniture, etc.). Please leave the chapel in the same condition upon your departure as your arrival, which includes the return of any furniture rearranged for your ceremony. We ask that you do not arrive early or depart late. The Danforth building manager will allow you access to the building only during your reserved time. Animals We do not allow animals of any kind to be inside the chapel unless it is a service animal. Organ There is a small pipe organ in Danforth Chapel. It is a beautiful instrument, but has some limitations. Due to its age, we do not guarantee its usability. Please refer to the School of Music website to inquire about organists and fees. Electrical Outlets Located throughout the chapel, there are various outlets. These outlets can be used to connect an electronic instrument or sound system. Lectern A lectern is available in the foyer of the Chapel. It may be used to hold the guest book, or placed in the front of the Chapel for the officiates. Bride's Room / Restrooms Thanks to the generosity of donors, Danforth Chapel has a bride's room and accessible restrooms for guests. The bridal room provides guests with a full-length mirror and vanity, with plenty of space to get ready for your ceremony. The bride's room remains locked unless it is during the reserved ceremony time. Decorations All decorations, such as flowers and/or battery operated candles, must be provided by the individual. Deliveries of flowers must be made to the Chapel only during your reserved time. There are no vases available at the Chapel. There are two alcoves on either side of the stage that can be used as a shelf for any arrangements you may have. If your decor requires a table or additional space, it is your responsibility to provide and remove additional furniture. The use of nails, pins or tape is prohibited. Sound System There is no amplified sound system in the Chapel. You may bring a stereo of your own for background music. Rice / Birdseed Throwing any materials, including, but not limited to; rice, birdseed, flower petals, confetti, etc. inside the chapel is strictly prohibited. If you choose to throw materials outside of the chapel, it is your responsibility to dispose of those materials (by sweeping or picking up). You may be subject to a pro-rated cleaning fee for any materials left behind. Parking The parking lot behind Danforth Chapel is available for use during ceremonies or rehearsals. However, if your ceremony falls on the day of a home game, or during the hours when campus is restricted (7:45 am – 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday), the parking lot will most likely not be available. Additionally, parking anywhere on campus during a home game is very limited. For information about Parking please contact KU Parking & Transit at 785-864-7275 The KU Memorial Union is not responsible for any parking restrictions that may occur on the day of your ceremony. Air Conditioning Danforth Chapel is equipped with efficient heating and air conditioning. In order to ensure sufficient cooling for your ceremony, refrain from propping open any doors. If the air conditioning is not on, or if there is a malfunction of the system, contact Facilities and Operations at 785-864-5572 or 785-864-5913. Please do not touch the thermostats. The Danforth Chapel building manager will modify room temperature before arrival and departure. Food and Drink No food or drink is allowed in Danforth except sacramental items, which must be provided by the participants. Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.