Skip Navigation Student union Life Happens at the Union Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About Us Maps/Floor Plans Directory Calendar Hours Employment Blog Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramPinterestTwitter Get Involved Shopping Dining Plan an Event About the Union MISSION STATEMENT The Student Union organization is a comprehensive system of diverse people, services, programs and facilities that enrich the intellectual, cultural and social well-being of the OSU student and campus community. BRAND PROMISE • A warm, friendly and welcoming environment • Clean and well-maintained facilities • Knowledgeable, service-oriented, responsive, informative and well-trained staff • A culture of wellness • Purposeful and meaningful out of classroom experiences ORGANIZATIONAL VALUES • Being the very best and exceling at whatever we do • Creating value with the services and programs that enhance and support student success • Making the “out of the classroom experience” an integrated and intentional approach to learning • Keeping the cost of programs and services affordable and being good stewards of the resources we manage • Making the quality of work life and overall wellness of all employees a priority • Maintaining our traditions and creating new ones • Being a leader in service quality • Creating an environment that encourages caring and service to others HISTORY Oklahoma State University’s Student Union is the most comprehensive in the world, built without a single cent from the taxpayers. In the beginning, funds for the union were supplied through a portion of student fees, revenue from room rentals, catering services and other sources. In 1948, the official groundbreaking took place. It was the wishes of the students and administration for the Union to become the hub of campus life as well as a venue for public use when not in conflict with student schedules. Since then students, staff, alumni and visitors have filled the hallways bringing the dreams of then Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College President Henry S. Bennett to life. It was Bennett who mapped out a 25-year campus plan that was adopted in 1937, which included the addition of 11 new buildings – one of those being the Student Union. Upon opening its doors on August 20, 1950, the 1951 copy of the “Redskin,” the University’s yearbook, dedicated a page to the Union. It stated, “The Student Union has become truly the new ‘heart’ of Oklahoma A&M College. The Union has provided a common hub for campus life, for engineer or commerce student, boy or girl, independent or representative, introvert or extrovert. The Union facilities were tailored for the needs of every kind of personality, and all students have found some interest in Union surroundings." It’s quaint how timeless this statement has become as the Union continues to be, and will always strive to be, tailored to the needs of all. Today the world's most comprehensive student union runs on the same principles of its early years with more than 75 percent of its operating budget being sustained through revenue other than student fees. QUICK REFERENCE Our address: 301 Student Union Stillwater, OK 74078 Director's Office - (405) 744-5231 Meeting & Conference Services - (405) 744-5232 Leadership & Campus Life Information Desk - (405) 744-5488 University Information - (405) 744-5000 CONTACT 301 Student Union Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078 405-744-5231 osuunion@okstate.edu Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©