Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Visit Student Programs & Involvement Student Programs Getting involved is one of the best ways to discover your passions and feel connected to the KU community. Join one of our Student Programs today. Explore Union Student Programs Additional Resources Not only is the Memorial Union the birthplace to some amazing student programs on campus, but it is also the physical home to additional services and resources provided by campus partners. See below for ways you can get involved. Student Senate KU's Student Senate serves as the primary advocate for students on campus. Senate members and executive staff members work together to allocate student fees in ways that best serve students. Visit Student Senate Website Student Involvement & Leadership Center SILC prepares students to become contributing members of society by providing meaningful co-curricular experiences. SILC is responsible for coordinating over 600 registered student organizations and helping ALL students explore their options, with special attention paid to the needs of non-traditional students. Visit SILC Website Sorority & Fraternity Life KU Greek life represents more than 4,000 students and 47 different Fraternal organizations. Each of these organizations is a member of one of the four governing councils. The SFL community is committed to four pillars: leadership, service, scholarship, and friendship (brotherhood/sisterhood). Visit SFL Website Campus Partners Emily Taylor Center Select to follow link SILC Select to follow link Office of Multicultural Affair Select to follow link Legal Services for Students Select to follow link SAPEC Select to follow link Get in touch. FacebookInstagramTwitter Upcoming Events See all events Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.