campus: a to z index map directory calendar Search This Site: A. Ray Olpin University Union The University of Utah About Us Mission History Art Collection Ballroom Flags All Roads Lead to the Union Newsletter Building Info Resources & Spaces Services Desk Recreation Union Programming Council Feed U Pantry Meditation Space Employee Health Clinic Computer Lab Resource Centers Nursing Room Student Lounge Gardner Commons Off Campus Housing -> Events & Scheduling Upcoming Building Events Have Your Event at the Union Union Scholarships Apply for Scholarships Strolling for Scholarships Union Scholarship Celebration The Whit Hollis Champions of the LGBTQIA+ Community Scholarship Dining Locations Catering Contact Building Directory Union Staff UPC Directors Advertise with the Union Student Job Applications Pay an Invoice Union Work Order EDI Now Hiring Off Campus Housing Welcome to The Union! The A. Ray Olpin Union is the community center of campus that complements the academic mission of the University. The Union cultivates an environment that serves students by providing social, cultural, leadership and co-curricular opportunities. The Union values diversity and promotes a safe and welcoming atmosphere where students are inspired to realize their potential. University Union: It’s the place where new friends meet. Where students learn to lead. Where parties and events draw thousands. Where lunch and a study break fit between classes. It’s the place where academic and local communities come together at the University of Utah. The Union is the community center of the college, serving students, faculty, staff, alumni, and guests. By whatever form or name, a college union is an organization offering a variety of programs, activities, services, and facilities that, when taken together, represent a well-considered plan for the community life of the college. Donate to the Union Upcoming Events The feed is either empty or unavailable. View More Events Hours: Mon-Sat: 7am - 9pm Sunday: Closed Contact Us: 200 S Central Campus Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112 tel : 801-581-5888 fax : 801-581-6652 Follow Us: Union UPC Sponsors: University Credit Union ACUI Logo Off Campus Housing Logo