Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Associate Research Scientist/Scholar and Postdoc Unionization Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Agreement Bargaining Sessions FAQs Important Information News and Updates Columbia University Associate Research Scientist/Scholar and Postdoc Unionization Home On June 30, 2020, the University and Columbia Postdoctoral Workers union reached a tentative agreement. On July 16, 2020, the union ratified the agreement. In an email to the Columbia community, Interim Provost Ira Katznelson reflected on this positive news: “This contract marks a significant milestone in the University’s relationship with postdoctoral researchers and associate research scientists and scholars. The agreement’s provisions reflect rigorous, respectful, and mutually successful negotiations. They establish how Columbia will operate in areas of substantial importance to researchers and scholars, indeed to the University as a whole. With the agreement now finalized, its provisions will begin to be fully implemented.” Agreement Final Bargaining Sessions With CPW-UAW June 30, 2020 The parties reached a comprehensive tentative agreement. June 29, 2020 The Union presented revised proposals on Compensation, Benefits, and Non-Discrimination. The University presented a revised proposal on Non-Discrimination. June 26, 2020 The University Interim Provost Ira Katznelson joined the bargaining session. The University presented a revised proposal on Non-Discrimination. June 25, 2020 The University presented a revised proposal on Compensation. The Union presented revised proposals on Leaves, Non-Discrimination, and Union Security. June 23, 2020 The Union presented revised proposals on Grievance and Arbitration, Management Rights and Non-Discrimination. The University presented a revised proposal on Grievance and Arbitration. June 12, 2020 The Union presented revised proposals on Grievance and Arbitration, Management Rights and Non-Discrimination. The University presented a revised proposal on Grievance and Arbitration. See All University Communications Where Things Stand on the Postdoc/ARS Negotiations March 2, 2020 Unionization: An Update October 10, 2019 Columbia and UAW Reach Framework Agreement November 19, 2018 Sign up for updates Office of the Provost311 Low Library, MC 4313, 535 W. 116th St. · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close