Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home NEW STAND Opens in Burge Union Fri, 10/01/21 Hadley Oehlert SHARE: Share by Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on Twitter October 1st , 2021 – LAWRENCE, KAN: Burge Union opens New York Based store New Stand. The University of Kansas is excited to announce the partnership with New York Based franchise, New Stand and Pepsi on campus. New Stand is a day improvement company where convenience meets culture. They transform everyday spaces with helpful products, interesting content, and special experiences. Their partnership with Pepsi includes snacks and Pepsi beverages carried in store. New Stand is open in time for the fall semester. They are located on the first floor of the Burge Union, directly next to the Coffee House. This location offers a comfortable and welcoming area for students to gather between classes. The atmosphere is meant to relax and entice students throughout their college experience. Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.