Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About RISING EVER UPWARD - 2021 ANNUAL REVIEW The University of Kansas KU Memorial Union SUPPORT THE UNION TODAY! The KU Memorial Union celebrated its 100th anniversary of incorporation in the spring-the oldest union west of the Mississippi! Learn how you can support the KU Memorial Union’s student programming efforts by participating in the excitement of the University of Kansas’s future by donating on One Day, One KU on February 17, 2022, the University’s 24-hour giving campaign. To enrich our current programming dollars and help our students thrive, please consider your donation to our newly established Sue Buckley SUA Enrichment Fund. Donate to KU Endowment here. Our Mission To be an open and dynamic environment where the KU community comes together for individual and collective discovery. SUPPORT THE UNION TODAY! Dear Jayhawks and Friends, David Mucci Director, KU Memorial Union The Memorial Union celebrated its 100th anniversary of incorporation this spring—the oldest student union west of the Mississippi. And the institution surmounted the financial and health threats posed by the pandemic. The past year proved our program vital to the institution—our operations continued throughout the pandemic. Hungry students were fed, classrooms provided, textbooks delivered (digital and physical). Equally critical, the Union continued to provide needed engagement for students desperately in need of connection through SUA programs, Big Event service efforts and KJHK broadcasting/streaming. E-sports advanced with an expanded arena, extended teams and an enhanced win record. As KU’s community center, we were able to call on so many for help—the institution providing federal relief funds, Endowment with a bridge loan and our staff with their energies and ingenuity in keeping the operation open at considerable personal risk. We have turned the corner with a return to near normal—despite the challenges of labor shortages, supply disruptions and shifting Covid protocols. The Union program has proven resilient, necessary and adaptive as we move into our next century. David Mucci Director, KU Memorial Union A year in review The New "Normal" Union business enterprises continue to serve KU, adjusting to the pandemic and the new "normal." The New "Normal" Financial Stability for the Union The Union moves toward financial stability having made drastic staff cuts and reductions to hours and services. Essential elements remain KU Alumni and Support Alumni have always been a bedrock of Union strength and we continue to rely on their support. 2021 Alumni and Support Serving in the Pandemic Student Union Activities Student Union Activities The Big Event The Big Event KJHK Student Radio KJHK Radio New Programs Ventures New Programs Union Corporation Board 2021-2022 Click here for a list of current Corporation Board Members Corporation Board What's New at the KU Memorial Union SUE BUCKLEY TO RECEIVE INAUGURAL ALUMNI SERVICE AWARD The Union Friends Organization has selected Sue Buckley as the first recipient of its Union Service Award at Homecoming. This event will take place on Saturday, October 16th at 11:00am BRENDA SELMAN ART EXHIBIT, UNION GALLERY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS Brenda Selman, an accomplished painter, returns to her alma mater for a Homecoming exhibit of her recent work. A student of the legendary Robert Sudlow, Brenda creates compelling oil landscapes from her childhood home in the Kansas Flint Hills to the mountains of California. The exhibit will run… NEW STAND Opens in Burge Union New Stand is open in time for the fall semester. They are located on the first floor of the Burge Union, directly next to the Coffee House. This location offers a comfortable and welcoming area for students to gather between classes. The atmosphere is meant to relax and entice students throughout… Grubhub is now available at The DeBruce Center at University of Kansas Starting this semester, the Courtside Cafe and The CoffeeHouse at the DeBruce Center will be on the GrubHub app, making ordering meals and coffee on the KU campus a snap. All users on campus can get $3 off their first order with the promo code "NOMS." Mo View all Union news Upcoming Events See all events Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.