Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Memorial Union - Celebrating 100 Years! KU Memorial Union serves as KU's community center and is the heart of campus. We strive to provide inviting spaces, inspiring programs, and quality facilities, services, and conveniences for the University community. We hope you find your home here. Get to know us 2021 Annual Review Check to see what we have been up to! Annual Review Find your home away from home. Kansas Union Welcome home to the Kansas Union, one of the most beloved and historic destinations on KU's campus. Explore the Kansas Union Burge Union Our newest student union located in the Central District and home to some of the best study and largest event spaces on campus. Explore the Burge Union The DeBruce Center The DeBruce Center is a modern student center and the permanent home for the rules of basketball. Explore the DeBruce Center Get Involved with Student Programs Student Union Activities Student Union Activities (SUA) is one of KU’s largest student organizations, planning over 200 events each year for the entire Jayhawk community. Get to Know SUA The Big Event at KU The Big Event connects the KU campus with the Lawrence community by recruiting thousands of students, faculty and staff volunteers to work at hundreds of local job sites during one day of service. Get to Know The Big Event KJHK 90.7 - Campus Radio KJHK 90.7 FM is a student-run radio station at the University of Kansas on Level 3 of the Kansas Union. Get to Know KJHK KU Jayhawk Esports The University of Kansas Jayhawk Esports team is part of the National Association of Collegiate Esports (NACE) and provides program support and coaching as part of their ongoing efforts with student programs and events. Get to Know Esports Building Hours Check to see what is open Building Hours Host Your Event Are you looking for a space for your next student or community event? We have the team and resources ready to assist you. Event Services Upcoming Events See all events What's New at the KU Memorial Union SUE BUCKLEY TO RECEIVE INAUGURAL ALUMNI SERVICE AWARD The Union Friends Organization has selected Sue Buckley as the first recipient of its Union Service Award at Homecoming. This event will take place on Saturday, October 16th at 11:00am BRENDA SELMAN ART EXHIBIT, UNION GALLERY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS Brenda Selman, an accomplished painter, returns to her alma mater for a Homecoming exhibit of her recent work. A student of the legendary Robert Sudlow, Brenda creates compelling oil landscapes from her childhood home in the Kansas Flint Hills to the mountains of California. The exhibit will run… NEW STAND Opens in Burge Union New Stand is open in time for the fall semester. They are located on the first floor of the Burge Union, directly next to the Coffee House. This location offers a comfortable and welcoming area for students to gather between classes. The atmosphere is meant to relax and entice students throughout… Grubhub is now available at The DeBruce Center at University of Kansas Starting this semester, the Courtside Cafe and The CoffeeHouse at the DeBruce Center will be on the GrubHub app, making ordering meals and coffee on the KU campus a snap. All users on campus can get $3 off their first order with the promo code "NOMS." Mo View all Union news Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.