Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Visit Three Locations, One Union. The KU Memorial Union welcomes you. Since 1921, we have served as KU's community center. Join students, faculty, staff, and the Lawrence community for events, activities, food, and fun in our locations on campus — Kansas Student Union, Burge Student Union, and the DeBruce Center. Kansas Student Union Welcome home to the Kansas Union, one of the most beloved and historic destinations on KU's campus. The Kansas Union is a multi-use building featuring shopping, dining, student art, Ascher Family Jayhawk Collection, and a variety of meeting spaces. Explore the Kansas Union Burge Student Union Our newest student union located in the Central District is home to some of the best study and largest event spaces on campus. Whether you're grabbing a cup of Starbucks coffee or studying with friends, the Burge Union is a modern hub for KU Students faculty, staff, and the Lawrence community. Explore the Burge Union DeBruce Center Home to the original 1891 “Rules of Basket Ball”, the DeBruce Center is a one-of-a-kind facility and immersive interpretive student center on KU's campus. Enjoy modern dining, Starbucks coffee, study spaces, and incredible sunset views. A must-see! Explore the DeBruce Center Upcoming Events See all events Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.