Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Student Affairs KU Memorial Union myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Visit Select to follow link Our Locations Select to follow link Kansas Union Select to follow link Building Directory Burge Union Select to follow link Building Directory DeBruce Center Select to follow link Building Directory Room Rates Student Programs & Involvement Select to follow link Student Programs KU Bookstore KU Dining Services KU History Digital Exhibits Parking Event Services Select to follow link Meeting & Event Spaces Event Policies & Procedures Room Rates Danforth Chapel Select to follow link Guidelines Hours Reservations Give Plan Your Event Catering Additional Information Select to follow link About KU Explore Lawrence KU Events Calendar KU Media Production Services Kansas City International Airport Parking Our Team Work With Us Select to follow link HR Availability About Select to follow link About The KU Memorial Union Directors Annual Review COVID-19 Updates Building Hours Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Student Affairs KU Memorial Union Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home News More news Featured Story SUE BUCKLEY TO RECEIVE INAUGURAL ALUMNI SERVICE AWARD Fri, 10/08/21 The Union Friends Organization has selected Sue Buckley as the first recipient of its Union Service Award at Homecoming. This event will take place on Saturday, October 16th at 11:00am More news Fri, 10/08/21 SUE BUCKLEY TO RECEIVE INAUGURAL ALUMNI SERVICE AWARD The Union Friends Organization has selected Sue Buckley as the first recipient of its Union Service Award at Homecoming. This event will take place on Saturday, October 16th at 11:00am Mon, 10/04/21 BRENDA SELMAN ART EXHIBIT, UNION GALLERY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS Brenda Selman, an accomplished painter, returns to her alma mater for a Homecoming exhibit of her recent work. A student of the legendary Robert Sudlow, Brenda creates compelling oil landscapes from her childhood home in the Kansas Flint Hills to the mountains of California. The exhibit will run… Fri, 10/01/21 NEW STAND Opens in Burge Union New Stand is open in time for the fall semester. They are located on the first floor of the Burge Union, directly next to the Coffee House. This location offers a comfortable and welcoming area for students to gather between classes. The atmosphere is meant to relax and entice students throughout… Thu, 03/18/21 Grubhub is now available at The DeBruce Center at University of Kansas Starting this semester, the Courtside Cafe and The CoffeeHouse at the DeBruce Center will be on the GrubHub app, making ordering meals and coffee on the KU campus a snap. All users on campus can get $3 off their first order with the promo code "NOMS." Mo Fri, 03/12/21 University of Kansas Memorial Corporation celebrates 100 anniversary Over 100 years, ago on May 10, 1921, a group met for the first time on The University of Kansas campus to discuss the construction of what would ultimately become a student union -- the home to a number of student groups, Student Senate chambers, and ultimately a "home away from home" for all Jay Fri, 03/12/21 University of Kansas Memorial Corporation celebrates 100 anniversary Over 100 years, ago on May 10, 1921, a group met for the first time on The University of Kansas campus to discuss the construction of what would ultimately become a student union -- the home to a number of student groups, Student Senate chambers, and ultimately a "home away from home" for all Jay Wed, 03/10/21 KU Union Student Programs Persevere Despite COVID-19 Restrictions The Big Event KU hosted its fall event, Mini Big Event, in a socially distanced format. Despite the obvious restrictions, students pulled off a safe and successful day of community service. Students were very intentional, from the mask mandate to touchless registration. Wed, 03/10/21 KU Union Student Programs Persevere Despite COVID-19 Restrictions The Big Event KU hosted its fall event, Mini Big Event, in a socially distanced format. Despite the obvious restrictions, students pulled off a safe and successful day of community service. Students were very intentional, from the mask mandate to touchless registration. Wed, 03/10/21 KU Union Student Programs Persevere Despite COVID-19 Restrictions The Big Event KU hosted its fall event, Mini Big Event, in a socially distanced format. Despite the obvious restrictions, students pulled off a safe and successful day of community service. Students were very intentional, from the mask mandate to touchless registration. Wed, 03/10/21 KU Union Student Programs Persevere Despite COVID-19 Restrictions The Big Event KU hosted its fall event, Mini Big Event, in a socially distanced format. Despite the obvious restrictions, students pulled off a safe and successful day of community service. Students were very intentional, from the mask mandate to touchless registration. Current page 1 Page 2 » Next Last page Last » Media Contacts To update the Media Contacts, you will need to edit the "Media Contacts" section in the footer section of the News view. Please note that only site admins have the ability to edit it. Edit Media Contacts Name Title Phone Number noreply@ku.edu Kansas Union 1301 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10 11 29 30 34 36 38 41 42 43 44 union@ku.edu 785-864-4651 facebook instagram twitter linkedin Jobs Union Building Hours Student Union Activities KU Dining Services KU Bookstore KJHK DeBruce Center Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.