Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Benefits and Seniority Status While on Unpaid Leave of Absence Benefits and Seniority Status While on Unpaid Leave of Absence Employees may continue certain insurance benefit coverages during an approved unpaid leave of absence through a direct billing arrangement with the third party billing administrator, Employee Benefit Plan Administrators, Inc. (EBPA). EBPA will bill for continuation of coverage for Medical, Dental, Optional Long-Term Disability, Optional Term Life Insurance and/or Dependent Life Insurance. If payment is not received on a timely basis, coverage for the abovementioned benefits will terminate for non-payment. If the employee later reapplies for Optional Life, Spouse Life and/or Optional Long-Term Disability benefits, the employee will need to resubmit an Evidence of Insurability statement for review and approval by the insurance company. Healthcare Flexible Spending Accounts may continue to be accessed during the calendar year in which the unpaid leave of absence begins. Should the unpaid leave of absence extend into another calendar year, the employee will not be eligible to re-enroll in the Healthcare FSA, or receive a rollover balance, until they return from the unpaid leave of absence. Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts, the Child Care Benefit, and Transit/Parking Reimbursement Program accounts are suspended during an unpaid leave of absence. No claims may be submitted for expenses incurred during this period. If an employee is using Tuition Exemption during the term in which they go on an unpaid leave of absence, the employee may continue using the benefit for that term. The employee will not be granted Tuition Exemption for any subsequent term until they return from the unpaid leave of absence. Tuition benefits for dependents may continue to be accessed during the leave of absence. During an unpaid leave of absence employees will not receive retirement contributions into their University or Voluntary Retirement Plan accounts. In addition, the time the employee was on an unpaid leave of absence will not count towards credited service time for retirement or retiree medical benefits. Expand all Collapse all Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Benefits While on a Leave of Absence Issue Date: January 1, 1993 Revision Date: March 26, 2019 Columbia University Human Resources Benefits Department [email protected] 212-851-7000 Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Faculty Officers of Administration Researchers Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Category Time Away from Work Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close