Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Remote Work Supplies and Minor Equipment Policy Remote Work Supplies and Minor Equipment Policy This policy defines the circumstances under which a faculty or staff member can be reimbursed for business expenses incurred while working on a remote basis two or more work days per week. Expand all Collapse all Overview Responsible University Office & Officer Ron Moraski, VP Procurement REVISION HISTORY Effective Date: 07/15/2021 Who Is Governed By This Policy This policy applies to everyone working at the University, or working on behalf of the University, who plays a role in procuring products and/or services with University funds. Who Should Know This Policy The employee or student requesting reimbursement should know this policy along with: Senior Executive Officers Deans Senior Business Officers Chairs of Departments, Directors of Institutes and Centers Department Administrators Divisional Administrators with financial responsibility and oversight Program Directors Principal Investigators Faculty Students Post-doctoral fellows Graduate research assistants Junior Officers and Non-Officers with financial responsibility and oversight INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THIS POLICY: Applies to faculty and staff regularly conducting University business on a remote basis two or more work days per week. Policy Text Policy Text Individual Schools / administrative units may institute more restrictive guidelines; in cases where there is a discrepancy between this policy and a School or administrative unit’s policy, the more restrictive policy will apply. Any furniture and/or equipment purchased by the University for remote use is University property, and as such, should be returned to Columbia (or, if a department chooses, purchased from the University after any items that contain University data have been wiped clean by IT) when it is no longer needed or when an employee leaves the School or department. University suppliers and related procurement processes will be the preferred method to purchase any new equipment. Departments should take care with sponsored project expenditures, only allocating those that would be allocated when that same person is performing work on campus. Departments with any questions should consult the award budget and may reach out to Sponsored Projects Administration with questions. Technology The following technology needs may be provided by the employee’s administrative department: Standard: University-issued laptop(s) Headset(s) As needed: Cell phone (and related service plan) Additional computer screens / external screens to laptop External keyboard / mouse Printer / scanner WiFi/home data plans and land lines will generally not be covered, but individual circumstances may be considered by exception. For example, WiFi jetpacks (or hotspots) may be purchased by a department for an employee to improve connectivity. Routine Office Supplies Departments may periodically order office supplies through the University supplier (Staples) for home delivery. Purchases must be approved by an individual other than the initiator. Other Employees may submit requests to their department for additional needs (filing cabinet, chair, office lighting equipment, other technology needs such as a router). Purchases should be made by the department for the individual, using University suppliers. The items in this category (so not including those listed under Technology and Supplies) would have a cap of $400 per employee (in total, not per item, and one-time only or until the useful life of the equipment expires), and individual Schools / departments may have a lower dollar cap. It will be incumbent upon the department to be responsible for the tracking of purchases and associated dollar cap. Requests for specialty equipment (e.g. ergonomic chair, sit/stand desk) related to a medical condition should go through the Reasonable Accommodation process managed by Disability Services (as is done for an on-campus setting). Utility expenses (electricity, gas, etc.) are not eligible for reimbursement. Travel / expenses for coming to campus The University expects remote and hybrid personnel to be within commuting distance and to be prepared and willing to attend events and meetings on campus as required by their manager. Commuting during regular business hours to campus on a regular or as-needed basis will not be a cost covered by the University. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies Business Expense Policy Issue Date: March 2013 Last Revision: None Contact: Ron Moraski, VP Procurement Services [email protected] Responsible University Office Finance Audience Officers of Administration Category Procurement Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close