Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home University Regulations University Regulations According to University regulations, each person whose registration has been completed will be considered a student of the University during the term for which he or she is registered unless the student's connection with the University is officially severed by withdrawal or otherwise. No student registered in any school or college of the University shall at the same time be registered in any other school or college, either of Columbia University or of any other institution, without the specific authorization of the dean or director of the school or college of the University in which he or she is first registered. The privileges of the University are not available to any student until he or she has completed registration. A student who is not officially registered for a University course may not attend the course unless granted auditing privileges. No student may register after the stated period unless he or she obtains the written consent of the appropriate dean or director. The University reserves the right to withhold the privilege of registration or any other University privilege from any person with an unpaid debt to the University. Expand all Collapse all Overview Who is Governed by This Policy Columbia University students are governed by this policy. Policy Text University Regulations Attendance Students are held accountable for absences incurred owing to late enrollment. Religious Holidays It is the policy of the University to respect its members' religious beliefs. In compliance with New York State law, each student who is absent from school because of his or her religious beliefs will be given an equivalent opportunity to register for classes or make up any examination, study, or work requirements that he or she may have missed because of such absence on any particular day or days. No student will be penalized for absence due to religious beliefs, and alternative means will be sought for satisfying the academic requirements involved. Officers of administration and of instruction responsible for scheduling of academic activities or essential services are expected to avoid conflict with religious holidays as much as possible. If a suitable arrangement cannot be worked out between the student and the instructor involved, they should consult the appropriate dean or director. If an additional appeal is needed, it may be taken to the Provost. Hazardous Activity in Connection with Initiations and Affiliations (often referred to as hazing) University policy and state law (New York Penal Law Section 120.16 and New York Education Law Section 6430), prohibit what is often referred to as hazing. In accordance with New York Education Law Section 6430, the following rules and regulations supplement existing University rules and regulations for the maintenance of public order on University campuses and other University property used for educational purposes: Any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental or physical health or involves the forced consumption of liquor or drugs for the purpose of initiation into or affiliation with any organization is prohibited. Any person who engages in conduct prohibited by the foregoing paragraph shall be subject to ejection from University campuses and property and, in the case of a student or faculty violator, to suspension, expulsion, or other appropriate disciplinary action by the Dean or other University officer having jurisdiction. Any organization that authorizes such conduct may be subject to rescission of its permission to operate on University campuses or property. A copy of these rules and regulations shall be given to all students enrolled in the University and shall be deemed to be part of the bylaws of all organizations operating on the University's campuses. Each such organization shall review annually such bylaws with individuals affiliated with such organization. These rules and regulations are applicable to all students, faculty, and other staff as well as visitors and other licensees and invitees on University campuses and properties. University Policy on Possession of Firearms on Campus University policy and state law, New York Penal Law Section 265.01(3), prohibit possession of firearms on campus without the University's written authorization from the Vice President of Public Safety. The University's prohibition against possession of firearms on campus extends to all University owned or controlled locations used for residences of affiliated persons, including all housing obtained through the Office of Housing Services and University Apartment Housing. Firearms possessed in violation of this University policy will be confiscated. Violators of the policy may be subject to University discipline as well as criminal prosecution. Student Discipline Students may continue at the University, receive academic credits, graduate, and obtain degrees subject to the disciplinary powers of the University. The Trustees of the University have delegated responsibility for student discipline to the Deans of the individual schools or divisions, and their administration of student discipline is known as Dean's Discipline. Students should be aware that academic dishonesty (for example, plagiarism, cheating on an examination, or dishonesty in dealing with a faculty member or other University official) or the threat of violence or harassment are particularly serious offenses that will be dealt with severely under Dean's Discipline. Academic Discipline In addition to Dean's Discipline, each school or division of the University has established standards of academic progress and requirements for remaining in academic good standing. Progress and standing are monitored by the Dean's Office of the respective school or division. For further information about academic standards and requirements students should consult the bulletin of the school or division in which they are enrolled. The continuance of each student upon the rolls of the University, the receipt of academic credits, graduation, and the conferring of any degree or the granting of any certificate are strictly subject to the disciplinary powers of the University. Standard Transcript Notations In compliance with applicable law, the Office of the University Registrar implemented a policy governing the recording of standard transcript notations for students who separate from the University on or after September 1, 2015. The Office of the University Registrar will record these notations on the official transcript for all Columbia University schools.* Academic Transcript Notations and Descriptions Academic Dismissal: Student made inadequate progress toward the degree. No further opportunity to complete the degree will be granted. Academic Suspension: Student has been temporarily suspended for lack of progress toward the degree. An appeal of an academic transcript notation may be raised during an appeal of the underlying sanction to the appropriate Dean(s). Once a final decision has been made, the notation will not be removed. There will be no separate or distinct appeal process for transcript notation removal unrelated to the underlying action. Disciplinary Transcript Notation and Descriptions Disciplinary Expulsion: Disciplinary process resulted in decision to deny student the opportunity to complete the degree. Disciplinary Suspension: Student has been temporarily suspended in conjunction with an internal disciplinary process. Withdrawal with Conduct Charges Pending: Student withdrew while there was a disciplinary matter pending that had not yet been completed. Upon conclusion of the disciplinary appeal process, a permanent transcript notation will be indicated on a student’s record for cases resulting in suspension or expulsion. Students who withdraw from the University without resolving a pending disciplinary matter will also be issued a transcript notation. Notations on transcripts will be indicated as follows: Disciplinary Suspension; Disciplinary Expulsion; or Withdrawal with Conduct Charges Pending. Students may make a formal request for a notation to be removed by submitting an appeal via email to Student Conduct and Community Standards after the following minimum periods of time have elapsed: At least one year following the completion of a Disciplinary Suspension; or at least one year following a Withdrawal with Conduct Charges Pending. A student may make a total of two requests per transcript notation before they are no longer eligible for appeal. Transcript notations for Disciplinary Expulsions are not eligible for appeal. For more information, please visit https://studentconduct.columbia.edu/. * This policy does not apply to Barnard College and Teachers College; those affiliated institutions have their own Registrar’s Office and corollary policies/procedures for transcript notations. Last Revision: November 21, 2019 Office of University Life (212) 853-1628 [email protected] Responsible University Office University Life Audience Students Category Annual Notice Student Conduct and Community Standards University Compliance Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close