Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Quick Guide for Medical, Mental Health and Domestic/Sexual Violence Resources Quick Guide for Medical, Mental Health and Domestic/Sexual Violence Resources To reach a medical professional, call 212-854-7426 (Morningside) or 212-305-3400 (after hours, press option 7 (CUIMC). To reach a mental health professional, call 212-854-2878 (Morningside) or 212-305-3400 (CUIMC). To reach Sexual Violence Response (all campuses), call 212-854-HELP/4357. Note: If you have recently lost or are about to lose health insurance via an employer or parent plan, you may be eligible to enroll in the Columbia University Student Health Insurance Plan. Timing and other restrictions apply, so please reach out at the earliest opportunity to [email protected] (Morningside) or [email protected] (CUIMC) for more information and to see if you may be eligible to join the Columbia Plan. Friendly reminder: If you are graduating, the plan still covers you until August 14, 2020. Health Resources: Morningside Columbia Healthoffers the following services (with 24/7 phone lines noted below). Visit the Columbia Health websitefor operating hours and more information. Expand all Collapse all Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) Counseling and Psychological Services offers virtual individual counseling and medication management plus assistance with referrals to local resources, for all students enrolled in Columbia Health. Hours are Monday to Thursday, 8:30 AM-6:30 PM and Fridays, 8:30 AM-4:30 PM. After-hours crisis intervention is available at all times, including nights and weekends. Call 212-854-2878 for all services (24/7). CPS also hosts nonconfidential weekday online support groups and community spaces for individuals and couples. Learn more. Medical Services Medical Services offers virtual appointments on weekdays for routine and urgent medical care, and limited in-person care for urgent medical needs. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 AM to 4:30 PM. Walk-ins will not be accepted. All students must call 212-854-7426 in advance before visiting, including those with pre-scheduled routine appointments. For all services, call 212-854-7426 (24/7). Alice! Health Promotion Alice! Health Promotion offers virtual health education and BASICS appointments by self, soft and mandated referrals. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 AM-5 PM. Call 212-854-5453 or write to [email protected]. The Student Health Insurance Office The Student Health Insurance Office offers virtual support to help students access affordable healthcare services by guiding them through insurance selection/enrollment, maximizing their benefits, verifying referrals for off-campus care and providing support during the claims process. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 AM-5 PM. Write to [email protected]. Gay Health Advocacy Project The Gay Health Advocacy Project supports students with any sexual health-related concerns through virtual individual one-to-one sessions. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 AM-5 PM. Call 212-854-6655 or write to [email protected]. Health Resources: Medical Center Campus CUIMC Student Health Service offers the following services ) with 24/7 phone lines noted below.) Visit the CUIMC SHS website for operating hours and more information. Expand all Collapse all Medical and Mental Health Services Use the health portal to schedule telephone appointments and to communicate directly with your provider. After-hours access remains available for urgent medical or mental health needs. For after-hours support, call 212-305-3400, option 7. Hours for Medical Services are Monday to Thursday, 8 AM-7 PM, and Friday from 9 AM-4 PM. Mental Health Services are by appointment only. Students are also invited to join virtual psychotherapy groups and gathering spaces. Center for Student Wellness Through free, confidential Wellness Appointments and Wellness Works! Health Promotion programs, the Center for Student Wellness remains available virtually and continues to offer programs and opportunities for connection. Visit the website or write to [email protected].& Hours are Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. to 7 p.m., and Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Insurance-related Questions Visit the Insurance and Administration website or write to [email protected]. Hours are Monday to Thursday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Other Questions For all other questions or concerns, write to [email protected]. Visit CUIMC Student Health Service for more information, including about Addiction Information and Management Strategies. Bias Response Expand all Collapse all Reporting Incidents of Bias or Discrimination Students experiencing bias are encouraged to contact their dean of students. Students can also report incidents of discrimination or harassment by filing a report or making a virtual appointment with Student Conduct and Community Standards. Contact 212-854-6872 or request an appointment online. Addressing Bias Read Vice President for Student Affairs Joseph Greenwell’s letter to students about the importance of maintaining an inclusive campus community and his op-ed on how we can work together to strengthen our campus community. Learn about University Life’s Initiative on Inclusion, Belonging and Community Citizenship and the skills needed for cultivating more inclusive spaces. You can also participate in University Life’s Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging or be trained to become a Campus Conversations Facilitator to lead conversations on identity and community with your peers. Listen to this podcast, “COVID-19: US vs. Them: The Danger of Blame,” with Professor Robert Fullilove from the Mailman School of Public Health on stigma and pandemics. Professor Fullilove offers insights into why people, in times of stigma, pandemics and stress, rely on fear instead of facts, and shares what we can do to counter this impulse. Additional University-wide Student Health and Well-Being Resources (Morningside and CUIMC) Expand all Collapse all Disability Services Students registered with Disability Services may obtain virtual support for academic and housing accommodations, including exam accommodations, e-text, note-taking, learning specialist sessions, CART and captioning. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Write to [email protected] or call 212-854-2388. Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response offers virtual trauma-informed, confidential support. Hours are Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Students may call 212-854-3500 or write to [email protected]. SVR’s 24/7 year-round helpline, for help with crisis intervention, options for reporting, seeking medical help, and safety planning, may be reached at 212-854-HELP/4357. Office of Religious Life Religious Life has organized virtual resources to help nurture the spiritual and religious health of our community. Learn more about weekly online offerings and gatherings. Students seeking religious or spiritual counseling can also reach out any time to make an appointment (212) 854-2184 or [email protected]. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close