Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Mental Health Resources Mental Health Resources Mental Health Resources Taking care of your mental health means supporting your emotional well-being, and making space and time to do that intentionally in different ways: from spending time in conversation with friends, family and loved ones, to getting outside for sunshine, fresh air and exercise, to writing or finding other creative outlets, and meditating or engaging in a spiritual practice. We all experience days or periods from time to time when we struggle with our mental health, which can manifest as exhaustion, anxiety or just feeling sad. It happens to all of us. That’s why it’s so important to develop healthy habits and practices that we can draw on when we need them. The Columbia resources on this page are here for you any time you need support. If you have any questions or suggestions for additions, please reach out to [email protected]. General Counseling Services comments icon Columbia Health comments icon Student Health on Haven (CUIMC) Expand all Collapse all Specialized Concerns First-generation Students (Columbia Health) Multicultural Concerns (Columbia Health) Psychiatric Medication (Columbia Health) 24/7 Multi-lingual support (CUIMC) Survivors of Sexual Violence Additional Resources Invisible and On Stage - a podcast from Columbia Health dedicated to Black students and racism in academia Collected crisis help, coping tools and mindfulness resources from Columbia Health Collected on-campus and community resources and support from Student Health on Haven Self-Assessments Columbia Health and CUIMC Student Health Service offer external resources that are not diagnostic but are meant to be educational and to help you better understand behavior. Columbia does not endorse or accept responsibility for external websites. Self-assessments from CUIMC Student Health Service - Take self-screening/online questionnaires about depression, anxiety, trauma, substance abuse, eating disorders and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder. These do not substitute assessments with a mental health professional. Sleep Assessment and Resources - Take an online sleep assessment to get real-time personalized feedback, start your own sleep diary, access sleep tips and resources, and send personalized sleep e-cards. From Alice! Health Promotion. Alcohol Self-Assessment - Complete a quick online questionnaire and optionally participate in the Brief Alcohol Screening & Intervention of College Students (BASICS) one-on-one sessions, free and open to all Columbia University students. Marijuana Self-Assessment - Complete a quick online self-assessment and get personalized feedback with the option to connect to campus health promotion professionals if you want to learn more. Mental Health Awareness Month 2021 Videos Joseph Greenwell, Vice President for Student Affairs in University Life, shares some of his daily well-being routines and mental health resources for students. Stephanie N. King, Director of Student Wellness for Columbia College and Columbia Engineering, shares her story about reaching out for support and tips for how we can begin or continue our own mental health journeys. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close