Skip to main content Quicklinks / Search Apply Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key AccountCanvas Academic Schedule Academic CalendarCatalogClass ScheduleRegistrar Places & Departments BookstoreBursarIT HelpdeskLibraryParking & TransitStudent Union Trending Now Orientation and EnrollmentSummer Dining Hours Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Oklahoma State University Store Main Menu In this section Shop Online Textbooks OrangeTech Supplies Graduation Clothing & Gifts Store Hours Home Graduation Information Home Contact Us 405.744.5238www.shopokstate.combkstore@okstate.edu For more graduation information, please visit the OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa and OSU-Center for Health Sciences commencement websites. Graduation Information Congratulations, graduate! The University Store wants to make sure you have everything you need to make your big day a memory that will last a lifetime. To be fully graduation-ready, purchase everything you need at the University Store at the Student Union or online at shopokstate.com. OSU-Tulsa Campus Grad Fair March 29 from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in North Hall Lobby. For More Information Announcements & Invitations Personalized graduation announcements are available for purchase year round at the University Store at the Student Union or online at shopokstate.com. Announcements are available for OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa and OSU-Center for Health Sciences, and are printed with your name, degree information and the commencement ceremony details of the campus and college from which you are graduating. Announcements are printed at the University Store while you wait or within a 24-hour turn around. Buy Your Announcements Online Caps & Gowns Bachelors' and masters' caps and gowns will be available for purchase each semester beginning at Grad Fair. If you can't make it to the Grad Fair, you can still get your cap & gown any day after that in the University Store or online at shopokstate.com. Bachelor's and master's regalia is the same for OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa and OSU-Center for Health Sciences. Caps and gowns do not need to be reserved in advance, and will be readily available for purchase until graduation. Buy Your Cap & Gown Online Doctoral regalia will be available to rent starting Monday, April 25 in the University Store or you can reserve your rental online at shopokstate.com. Regalia rentals will be reserved on a first-come, first-served basis and must be picked up in person. All rentals must be returned to the University Store no later than Wednesday, May 11 at 5 p.m. Doctoral regalia may also be purchased by special order. To ensure delivery before commencement weekend, the deadline for purchasing doctoral regalia is Friday, March 11 at 3 p.m. If you are interested in ordering a non-OSU hood for rental, your order must be placed by Friday, March 25 at 3 p.m. For more information about purchasing doctoral regalia, please email us at bkstore@okstate.edu. Diploma Frames Your diploma signifies the culmination of years of hard work and dedication to your education. Protect and preserve the memory of this accomplishment with an Oklahoma State University diploma frame. The University Store offers a wide selection of diploma frames in varying styles, finishes and price ranges. Our diploma frames are made with acid-free, premium quality matboard to provide better protection from long-term discoloration and deterioration. For something truly unique, check out our custom diploma frame options. Buy Your Diploma Frame Online Class Rings & Alumni Membership Offered exclusively through the OSU Alumni Association, the Official Oklahoma State University Class Ring, rich in symbolism, is a lifelong emblem of Cowboy pride. It embodies academic achievement at the university and is reserved exclusively for graduates and students who have completed at least 60 credit hours and are in good standing with the university. As a symbol of OSU's tradition, it is instantly recognizable - a tangible connection between all graduates of OSU. The Alumni Association represents more than 250,000 alumni, students and friends with programs for Cowboys of all ages. Membership in the OSU Alumni Association, which is open to all graduates, students, fans and friends, is the most recognizable way of expressing your loyalty and affinity to Oklahoma State. Join today! For more graduation information, please visit the OSU-Stillwater, OSU-Tulsa and OSU-Center for Health Sciences commencement websites. The University Store is owned and operated by Oklahoma State University, and every purchase made in the University Store directly benefits the university. Back To Top Back To Top University Store Part of theStudent Union University Store 120 Student Union Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5231 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsNewsletter Signup Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©