Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home COVID-19 Vaccination Paid Leave Policy COVID-19 Vaccination Paid Leave Policy Policy Text NYS Paid Leave for COVID-19 Employee Vaccination Columbia University complies with Section 196-c of the New York State Labor Law by providing its employees paid leave for a sufficient period of time, not to exceed four hours, per each COVID-19 vaccine with an additional four hours provided for a booster injection. The leave shall be at the employee’s regular rate of pay and shall not be charged against any other leave, including sick leave. Employees who have their injection administered during non-work hours will not receive paid time off. Employees should track the time off using their normal method of tracking time out of the office. NYC Paid Leave for COVID-19 Child Vaccination Columbia University complies with New York City’s Earned Safe and Sick Time Act by providing four hours of paid leave to employees to accompany their children to COVID-19 vaccine injections and/or care for such a child who is experiencing temporary side effects from a COVID-19 vaccine injection. This includes booster shots. Paid leave is provided for four hours, per each COVID-19 vaccine injection, per child under the age of 18, or for an older child incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability. This time is in addition to time provided to eligible Columbia University employees under New York Safe and Sick Time Law. If the need to use such leave is foreseeable, an employee shall provide reasonable advance notice, not to exceed seven days prior to the use of the leave. If the need to use such leave is not foreseeable, an employee shall notify of the need for leave time as soon as practicable. The University may request reasonable documentation within seven days of the leave being used that the child for whom the leave was taken received a COVID-19 vaccination Expand all Collapse all Who is Governed by This Policy All Columbia University employees who work in New York State. Who Should Know This Policy All University employees, senior executive officers, deans, vice presidents, chairs of departments, directors of institutes and centers, senior administrative officers, departmental administrators, and employees getting a COVID-19 vaccine injection. Non-Discrimination/Non-Retaliation All Columbia employees are protected from discrimination or retaliation for exercising their rights under this Policy. Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Effective Dates: March 2021--December 31, 2022 Contact: Leave Management [email protected] (212) 851-0698 Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Faculty Researchers Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Category Time Away from Work Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close