Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Resources for Faculty, Staff and Researchers Resources for Faculty, Staff and Researchers Resources for Faculty, Staff and Researchers This is an easy-access page to help you connect with important University resources and policies. Downloadable PDF of important resources Get quick links below Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action EOAA has overall responsibility for the University’s Employee Policies and Procedures on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking. Student Conduct and Community Standards SCCS works with schools across Columbia on student academic and behavioral conduct issues, including discrimination and harassment allegations against students. Title IX Coordinator Columbia’s Title IX Coordinator works with EOAA, the Gender-Based Misconduct Office and other campus resources to ensure a safe, welcoming, and harassment free-environment for all students, faculty and staff. Sexual Respect Website Columbia's Sexual Respect website details additional confidential and nonconfidential resources for students. Mental Health and Well-Being The resources linked below are available if you have concerns about a student’s mental health or well-being: Counseling & Psychological Services (Morningside) Student Health on Haven (CUIMC) Furman Counseling Center (Barnard) Undergraduate Well-Being Collected resources to share with students Guidance for Identifying Students in Distress Additional Resources Benefits/Human Resources Contact Columbia Benefits Service Center, for inquiries about medical and dental coverage, retirement, tuition programs and disability, and Human Resources Service Center for payroll and accounting, employment applications and verification, and other policies and procedures. Community Safety Columbia Public Safety provides emergency response, assistance with personal threats, security escorts, lost and found, and assistance with law enforcement. Compliance Concerns The University's compliance hotline is a confidential channel, by phone and web-based, for employees to report or seek guidance on possible compliance issues. Disability Services - to help a student Disability Services works with faculty and staff to support accommodations for students and accessibility for events and course materials. Disability Services - for employees Columbia’s Human Resources Service Center works with all employees self-identifying with a disability. Immigration & Undocumented Student Concerns The International Students and Scholars Office is the go-to resource for international students and visiting professors and researchers. Find undocumented/DACA student resources here. Inclusive Teaching The Center for Teaching and Learning offers resources, workshops and individualized consultation. LGBTQ Students, Faculty and Staff Students can register preferred names, which will appear on course rosters. All may use restrooms that are most consistent with their gender identity - campus maps include single-user and gender-neutral restrooms. Ombuds Office The University Ombuds Office is a confidential place to discuss workplace and academic concerns, policies and procedures and many other issues. Ombuds serve faculty, students, staff and alumni and are not part of any formal University process. Research Misconduct The University defines research misconduct, in accordance with federal policy, as any fabrication, falsification or plagiarism in proposing, performing or reviewing research or in the reporting of research results. Spiritual Support and Resources The Office of Religious Life seeks to meet the spiritual and religious needs of Columbia’s diverse community. Housed in Earl Hall, the office provides spaces for prayer, reflection, meditation, and worship. Over fifteen religious life advisers, representing the major faith traditions, partner with the office to provide counseling and leadership support to our various communities. Veterans, Active Military Service Members, and their Dependents Student Financial Services Student Financial Services and the School of General studies handle resources, policies, and procedures for veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces. School of General Studies Student Financial Services and the School of General studies handle resources, policies, and procedures for veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces. Resilience Center for Veterans and Families Research and psychological services also are available through the Resilience Center for Veterans and Families at Teachers College. Center for Veteran Transition and Integration The Columbia University Center for Veteran Transition and Integration provides programming and support for veterans transitioning to colleges, graduate and professional schools, civilian life, and the workforce. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close