Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Information Security Charter Information Security Charter Establishes the personnel responsibilities and functions within the Information Security Program and defines key terms and definitions used and referenced by other IT policies Expand all Collapse all Overview I. Introduction In the course of carrying out its academic, research and clinical missions, faculty, staff and students at Columbia University (“Columbia” or the “University”) collect many different types of information, including financial, academic, medical, human resources and other personal information. The University values the ability to communicate and share information appropriately. Such information is an important resource of the University and any person who uses information collected by the University has a responsibility to maintain and protect this resource. Federal and state laws and regulations, as well as industry standards, also impose obligations on the University to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information relating to faculty, staff, students, research subjects and patients. In addition, terms of certain contracts and University policy require appropriate safeguarding of information. This Charter and the information security policies adopted by the University hereunder (collectively, the “Information Security Policies”) define the principles and terms of the University’s Information Security Management Program (the “Information Security Program”) and the responsibilities of the members of the University community in carrying out the Information Security Program. The current Information Security Policies are listed in Appendix A hereto. The information resources (the “Information Resources”) included in the scope of the Information Security Policies are: All University Data (as defined in Section IV below) regardless of the storage medium (e.g., paper, fiche, electronic tape, cartridge, disk, CD, DVD, external drive, copier hard drive, etc.) and regardless of form (e.g., text, graphic, video, audio, etc.); The computing hardware and software Systems (as defined in Section IV below) that process, transmit and store University Data; and The Networks (as defined in Section IV below) that transport University Data. The Information Security Policies are University-wide policies that apply to all individuals who access, use or control Information Resources at the University, including faculty, staff and students, as well as contractors, consultants and other agents of the University and/or individuals authorized to access Information Resources by affiliated institutions and organizations. Capitalized terms used herein without definition are defined in Section IV below. II. Charter History The effective date of this Charter is November 1, 2013. This Charter and the other Information Security Policies replace (A) the following University Policies: Information Security Charter, dated July 1, 2007 Information Security Policy Statement and (B) the following CUIMC Policy: Information Security Charter, dated December 1, 2010 Policy Text III. Charter Text The mission of the Information Security Program is to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of University Data. Confidentiality means that information is only accessible to authorized users. Integrity means safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of University Data and processing methods. Availability means ensuring that authorized users have access to University Data and associated Information Resources when required. This Charter establishes the various functions within the Information Security Program and authorizes the persons described under each function to carry out the terms of the Information Security Policies. The functions are: A. Executive Management Executive Managers are senior University officials, including the Provost, Deans, Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Department Chairs, Institute or Center Directors and Senior Business Officers, who are responsible for overseeing information security for their respective areas of responsibility and ensuring compliance with all Information Security Policies. Such responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Ensuring that each System Owner and Data Owner in their respective areas of responsibility appropriately identify and classify University Data in accordance with the Columbia University Data Classification Policy; Ensuring that each such System Owner and Data Owner receives training on how to handle Sensitive Data; and Ensuring that each IT Custodian in his/her area of responsibility provides periodic reports with respect to the inventory of Information Resources used in such area to the applicable Information Security Office. B. Security, Policy and Compliance Governance The following committees have been established to govern security, policy and compliance issues relating to the Information Security Program at the organizational level: Information Security Steering Committee (Executive Strategic Oversight) HIPAA Risk Committee (CUIMC HIPAA/HITECH Risks and Compliance) University Compliance Committee (Regulatory Compliance Requirements) Administrative Policy Council (Review of and Advice on Administrative Policies) PCI-DSS Governance Committee (Credit Card Compliance C. Security Management Security Managers are Managers in the Columbia University Information Security Office (the “CU Information Security Office”) and the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Information Security Office (the “CUIMC Information Security Office”; the CU Information Security Office and the CUIMC Information Security Office being referred to individually as an “Information Security Office”). Security Managers are responsible for the day to day management of the Information Security Program, including: Developing, documenting and disseminating the Information Security Policies; Educating and training University personnel in information security matters; Communicating information regarding the Information Security Policies; Developing and executing the Risk Management Program; Collaborating with the University’s Office of HIPAA Compliance and Human Research Protection Office on matters relating to PHI; Translating the Information Security Policies into technical requirements, standards and procedures; Collaborating with Data Owners and System Owners to determine the appropriate means of using Information Resources; and Authorizing any required exceptions to any Information Security Policy or any associated technical standards or procedures and reporting such exceptions to the University’s Office of the General Counsel. In addition to the responsibilities listed above, the Executive Managers have granted the authority to the Information Security Offices to conduct the following activities: Monitoring communications and University Data that use the University Network or Systems for transmission or storage; Monitoring use of the University’s Information Resources; Conducting vulnerability scanning of any Information Resources connected to the University Network; Conducting security assessments of Systems, Server centers and University Data centers; Disconnecting Information Resources that present a security risk from the University Network; Erasing all University Data stored on personal Endpoints previously used for University business, as requested or required; and Leading and managing the University Response Team in connection with any breach or compromise of Sensitive Data, to the extent provided for in the Columbia University Electronic Data Security Breach Reporting and Response Policy. The University’s Chief Information Security Officer and CUIMC’s Chief Information Security Officer are the responsible officers for management of the Information Security Program (“ISP Management”). The University’s Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for overseeing all ISP Management other than that for which the CUIMC Chief Information Security Officer is responsible. CUIMC’s Chief Information Security Office is responsible of overseeing ISP Management for (1) the Columbia Health Care Component, (2) the CUIMC IT operating environment and (3) all uses of PHI. The Chief Information Security Officers work collaboratively in the execution of their respective ISP Management responsibilities. D. Data Ownership Data Owners are University officials, including Directors, Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research and Officers of Administration, who are responsible for determining University Data classifications, working with the applicable Information Security Office in performing risk assessments and developing the appropriate procedures to implement the Information Security Policies in their respective areas of responsibility. Such responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Appropriately identifying and classifying University Data in their respective areas of responsibilities in accordance with the Columbia University Data Classification Policy; Establishing and implementing security requirements for University Data in consultation with the applicable Information Security Office; Where possible, clearly labeling Sensitive Data and Confidential Data; Approving appropriate access to University Data; and Ensuring that the Columbia University Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy is followed. E. System Ownership System Owners are University officials, including Directors, Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research and Officers of Administration, who are responsible for determining computing needs, and applicable System hardware and software, in their respective areas of responsibility and ensuring the functionality of each such System. Such responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Classifying each System in their respective areas of responsibility based on the identification and classification of University Data by the applicable Data Owner; Ensuring that each such System that contains Sensitive Data is scheduled for risk assessment in accordance with the Columbia University Information Security Risk Management Policy; Establishing and implementing security requirements for each such System in consultation with the applicable Information Security Office; Ensuring that each System is operated in accordance with the Information Security Policies; Documenting and implementing audit mechanisms, timing of log reviews and log retention periods; Maintaining an inventory of such Systems; Approving appropriate access to such Systems; and Ensuring that the Columbia University Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy is followed. F. Technical Ownership IT Custodians are University personnel who are responsible for providing a secure infrastructure in support of University Data, including, but not limited to, providing physical security, backup and recovery processes, granting access privileges as authorized by Data Owners or System Owners and implementing and administering controls over University Data in their respective areas of responsibility. Such responsibilities include, but are not limited to: Maintaining an inventory of all Endpoints used in their respective areas of responsibility; Conducting periodic security checks of Systems and Networks, including password checks, in their respective areas of responsibility; Documenting and implementing audit mechanisms, timing of log reviews and log retention periods; Performing self-audits and reporting metrics to the applicable Information Security Office and monitoring assessments and appropriate corrective actions; and Ensuring that the Columbia University Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy is followed. All IT Custodians at CUIMC must be part of a Certified IT Group. IT Groups are two or more IT Custodians whose responsibilities involve the same Information Resource. All IT Groups located within CUIMC must follow the specific procedures relating to IT Groups in the CUIMC Information Security Procedures. G. System or Data Usage Users are persons who use Information Resources. Users are responsible for ensuring that such Resources are used properly in compliance with the Columbia University Acceptable Usage of Information Resources Policy, information is not made available to unauthorized persons and appropriate security controls are in place. IV. Definitions As used in the Information Security Policies, the following terms are defined as follows: AES: the Advanced Encryption Standard adopted by the U.S. government. Approved OHCA Email System: as defined in the Columbia University Email Usage Policy. Certified IT Group: a group of IT personnel of CUIMC or the CUIMC OHCA who have been certified by the CUIMC Information Security Office to be part of its Information Security Program and who are responsible for providing a secure infrastructure in support of University Data in their respective areas of responsibility. Columbia or the University: as defined in Section I of this Charter. Columbia Health Care Component: the health care component of the University that is comprised of CUIMC and the other colleges, schools, departments and offices of the University to the extent that they (1) provide treatment or health care services and engage in Covered Transactions or (2) receive PHI to provide a service to, or perform a function for or on behalf of, the Columbia Health Care Component. Confidential Data: any information that is contractually protected as confidential information and any other information that is considered by the University appropriate for confidential treatment. See the Columbia University Data Classification Policy for examples of Confidential Data. Covered Entity: a (1) health plan, (2) health care clearinghouse or (3) a Covered Health Care Provider, as more particularly defined in the HIPAA Rules at 45 CFR 160.103. Covered Health Care Provider: a health care provider that transmits any health information in electronic form in connection with a Covered Transaction. Covered Transaction: an electronic financial or administrative transaction for which HHS has developed standards under the HIPAA Transactions and Code Sets Regulations, as more particularly described in the HIPAA Rules at 45 CFR 162. CUIMC/Hospital OHCA: The OHCA of which Columbia University Irving Medical Center, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College are members. CU Information Security Office: as defined in Section III(C) of this Charter. CUIMC: Columbia University Irving Medical Center, which is comprised of the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Mailman School of Public Health, the School of Nursing and the College of Dental Medicine. CUIMC Information Security Office: as defined in Section III(C) of this Charter. CUIMC Information Security Procedures: the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Information Security Procedures established by the CUIMC Information Security Office. CUIMC IT: Columbia University Irving Medical Center Information Technology. CUIMC Network: the Network owned and operated by CUIMC. CUIT: Columbia University Information Technology Data Owner: as defined in Section III(D) of this Charter. DHCP: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, which is a Network protocol that enables a Server to automatically assign an IP address to a Network enabled device from a defined range of numbers (i.e., a scope) configured for a given Network. DNS: Domain Name System, which is a protocol within the set of standards for the exchange of University Data on the Internet or on a private Network. The Domain Name System translates a user-friendly domain name such as https://www.columbia.edu into an IP address such as “128.59.105.24” that is used to identify computers on a Network. Email System: a System that transmits, stores and receives emails. Endpoint: any desktop or laptop computer (i.e., Windows, Mac, Linux/Unix), Mobile Device or other portable device used to connect to the University wireless or wired Network, access Columbia email from any local or remote location or access any institutional (University, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, departmental or individual) System either owned by the University or by an individual and used for University purposes. EPHI: Electronic Protected Health Information. FERPA: the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Health Care: the care, services or supplies relating to the health of an individual, including, without limitation, (1) preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, maintenance or palliative care, and counseling , service, assessment or procedure with respect to the physical or mental condition, or functional status, of an individual or that affects the structure or function of the body and (2) the sale or dispensing of a drug, device, equipment or other item in accordance with a prescription. HHS: the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. HIPAA: the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended from time to time. HIPAA Rules: the HIPAA Privacy, Security and Breach Notifications and Enforcement Rules (45 CFR Parts 160 and 164), as amended from time to time. HITECH: the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as amended from time to time. IDEA: the International Data Encryption Algorithm. Individually Identifiable Health Information or IIHI: any information (including demographic and genetic information) created or received by the Columbia Health Care Component that relates to (1) the past, present or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, (2) the provision of Health Care to an individual or (3) the past, present or future payment for the provision of Health Care to an individual and either (a) identifies the individual or (b) with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe that the information can be used to identify the individual, as more particularly described in the HIPAA Rules at 45 CFR 103. Information Resources: as defined in Section I of this Charter. Information Security Office: as defined in Section III(C) of this Charter. Information Security Policies: as defined in Section I of this Charter. Information Security Program: as defined in Section I of this Charter. Internal Data: as defined in the Columbia University Data Classification Policy. IP: Internet Protocol. IRB: Institutional Review Board. IT: Information Technology. IT Custodian: as defined in Section III(F) of this Charter. IT Group: as defined in Section III(F) of this Charter. Key Business System: as defined in the Columbia University Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Policy. MAC: Media Access Control. MFA: Multi Factor Authentication. Mobile Device: a smart/cell phone (i.e., iPhone, Blackberry, Android, Windows phone), tablet (i.e., iPad, Nexus, Galaxy Tab and other Android based tablet) or USB/removable drive. Network: electronic Information Resources that are implemented to permit the transport of University Data between interconnected Endpoints. Network components may include routers, switches, hubs, cabling, telecommunications, VPNs and wireless access points. OHCA: an Organized Health Care Arrangement, which is an arrangement or relationship, recognized in the HIPAA Rules that allows two or more Covered Entities that hold themselves out to the public as participating in a joint arrangement and participate in certain joint activities to share PHI for joint health care operations purposes. Payment Card: for purposes of PCI-DSS, any payment card/device that bears the logo of the founding members of PCI SSC, which are American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa, Inc. PCI: Payment card industry. PCI-DSS: the PCI Data Security Standard produced by the PCI–SSC, which mandates compliance requirements for enhancing the security of payment card data. PCI-SSC: the PCI Security Standards Council, which is an open global forum of payment brands, such as American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc, that are responsible for developing the PCI-DSS. Peer: a network participant that makes a portion of its resources, such as processing power, disk storage or network bandwidth, directly available to other network participants, without the need for central coordination by Servers or stable hosts. Examples include KaZaa, BitTorrent, Limewire and Bearshare. Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Program: a program that allows any computer operating the program to share and make available files stored on the computer to any machine with similar software and protocol. Personally Identifiable Information or PII: any information about an individual that (1) can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as name, date and place of birth, mother’s maiden name or biometric records, (2) is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial and employment information, which if lost, compromised or disclosed without authorization, could result in harm to that individual and (3) is protected by federal, state or local laws and regulations or industry standards. Protected Health Information or PHI: IIHI that is transmitted or maintained by the Columbia Health Care Component in electronic of any other form or medium, except (1) as provided in the definition of Protected Health Information in the HIPAA Rules at 45 CFR 160.103 and (2) RHI. Public Data: as defined in the Columbia University Data Classification Policy. Removable Media: CDs, DVDs, USB flash drives, external hard drives, Zip disks, diskettes, tapes, smart cards, medical instrumentation devices and copiers. Research Health Information or RHI: IIHI that (1) is created or received in connection with research that does not involve a Covered Transaction or (2) although previously consider PHI, has been received in connection with research pursuant to a valid HIPAA authorization or IRB waiver of authorization. Risk Analysis: the process of identifying, estimating and prioritizing risks to organizational operations, assets and individuals. “Risk Assessment” is synonymous with “Risk Analysis”. Risk Management Program: the combined processes of Risk Analysis, Risk Remediation and Risk Monitoring. Risk Monitoring: the process of maintaining ongoing awareness of an organization’s information security risks via the risk management program. Risk Remediation: the process of prioritizing, evaluating and implementing the appropriate risk-reducing security controls and countermeasures recommended from the risk management process. “Risk Mitigation” or “Corrective Action Planning” is synonymous with “Risk Remediation”. RSA: the Rivest-Shamir-Adleman Internet encryption and authentication system. Sensitive Data: any information protected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA, HITECH, the New York State Information Security Breach and Notification Act, similar state laws and PCI-DSS. See the Columbia University Data Classification Policy for examples of Sensitive Data. Server: any computing device that provides computing services, such as Systems and Applications, to Endpoints over a Network. Service Account: a special User account for a System used to make configuration changes to the System. SMTP: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, which is an internet transportation protocol designed to ensure the reliable and efficient transfer of emails and is used by Email Systems to deliver messages between email providers. SSL: the Secure Sockets Layer security protocol that encapsulates other network protocols in an encrypted tunnel. Student Education Records: as defined in the Columbia University Data Classification Policy. System: Server based software that resides on a single Server or multiple Servers and is used for University purposes. “Application” or “Information System” is synonymous with “System”. System Administrator: a person who is responsible for the configuration, operation and maintenance of a System. System Owner: as defined in Section III(E) of this Charter. University Data: all items of information that are created, used, stored or transmitted by the University community for the purpose of carrying out the institutional mission of teaching, research and clinical care and all data used in the execution of the University’s required business functions. University Network: the Network owned and operated by the University, including the CUIMC Network. UPS: Uninterruptible Power Supply. User: as defined in Section III(G) of this Charter. User ID: a User Identifier. VPN: Virtual Private Network. V. Enforcement Violations of the Information Security Policies may result in corrective actions which may include: (a) the immediate suspension of computer accounts and network access; (b) mandatory attendance at additional training; (c) a letter to the individual’s personnel or student file; (d) administrative leave without pay; (e) termination of employment or non-renewal of faculty appointment or student status; or (f) civil or criminal prosecution. VI. Applicable Laws, Regulations and Industry Standards The federal and New York State laws and regulations and industry standards and certain international laws and regulations that are applicable to information security at the University are listed in Appendix A hereto. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY Information Security Policies Information Security Charter Acceptable Usage of Information Resources Policy Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Policy Data Classification Policy Electronic Data Security Breach Reporting and Response Policy Electronic Signature Policy Email Usage Policy External Hosting Policy Information Resource Access Control and Log Management Policy Information Security Risk Management Policy Internet Domain Name Policy Network Protection Policy Registration and Protection of Endpoints Policy Registration and Protection of Systems Policy Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy Social Security Number (SSN) Usage Policy Appendix A Applicable Federal and New York State Laws and Regulations Federal The Digital Millennium Copyright Act The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99) The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999) The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) - The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) New York State Internet Security and Privacy Act New York State Information Security Breach and Notification Act Social Security Number Protection Law, 399-DDD and 399-DDD*2 Industry Standards Payment Card Industry/Data Security Standard International EU General Data Protection Regulation Effective Date Published: October 2013 Revised: November 2014, April 2016, July 2016, September 2016, October 2017, April 2018, July 2019 [email protected] Responsible University Office Information Technology (CUIT) Audience Officers of Administration Students Visitors and Consultants Researchers Faculty Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Librarians Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close