Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Parking Policy for Morningside Heights Campus Parking Policy for Morningside Heights Campus The parking policy sets forth eligibility and allocation guidelines for faculty, staff, students, affiliates, and visitors for the 24-hour and commuter parking spaces managed by the University at the Morningside Heights campus. The policy also addresses application and payment issues. Expand all Collapse all Overview Reason(s) for the Policy The demand for the University’s parking facilities greatly exceeds its supply. Eligibility and allocation policies are designed to maximize the use of this limited resource for the benefit of the University. Primary Guidance To Which This Policy Responds There is not a primary policy to which this policy responds. It is independent of other policies of the University. It is consistent with allocating scarce resources in accordance with academic priorities. Who is Governed by This Policy All faculty, staff, affiliates, students, and visitors of and to the University who want to park in a University managed facility. Who Should Know This Policy Senior executive officers, deans, vice presidents, chairs of departments, directors of institutes and centers, senior administrative officers, departmental administrators, and persons applying for parking. Responsibilities The University Parking Committee is responsible for establishing the University’s parking policy for the Morningside Heights campus. The Parking Office of Columbia University Facilities and Operations is responsible for day-to-day operations of Morningside Heights parking facilities and administering the policy. The Responsible Officer is the Chair of the Parking Committee who is responsible for implementing the parking policy. Policy Text Commuter and 24-Hour Parking Eligibility and Allocation Policy The University Parking Committee has adopted the following eligibility and allocation policy for the assignment and retention of 24-hour and commuter parking spaces at the Morningside Heights campus and 3260 Henry Hudson Parkway (“The Arbor”). Columbia University Facilities and Operations is responsible for the administration of the policy and for implementation of the decisions of the Parking Committee pursuant to the policy. Decisions of the University Parking Committee may, upon request, be appealed to the Executive Vice President for Columbia University Facilities and Operations for final determination. A. Eligibility Policies - General Active full-time Columbia faculty members, professional officers of research as defined by the Faculty Handbook, professional librarians and officers of administration in grades 14 and above on the Morningside Heights Campus, or grades 106 and above on the Medical Center Campus, are eligible for 24-hour and commuter parking privileges in the University’s Morningside Heights parking facilities. All residents of the Arbor, including post-doctoral officers of research and graduate students, are eligible for parking in that facility. Officers not otherwise eligible for parking pursuant to this Policy may be eligible for commuter or 24-hour parking if they are registered with the appropriate Disability Services office and recommended for parking as a disability related accommodation by that office in accordance with University policy governing disability related accommodations. Members of other Morningside institutions are not eligible for University parking, with the exception of certain faculty at Barnard College as described under “Eligibility Policy - 24 Hour Parking.” Parkers who cease to meet the eligibility requirements described herein will not be allowed to retain their parking space(s). Individual faculty/staff parkers may not simultaneously lease both a commuter and a 24-hour parking space on the Morningside Heights campus, except where both spaces are necessary to accommodate an eligible individual with a disability as recommended by the appropriate Disability Services office. The eligibility policies apply prospectively, effective upon issuance. Current parkers as of the date of issuance who would not qualify under the rules may retain their University parking space(s) assuming all other eligibility criteria are met. Departments may request parking for attendees of special events, seminars, and daily visitors. Approval of requests is subject to availability and the department will be charged for use of the facilities. During June, July, and August, there is generally a temporary increase in availability of parking spaces. All faculty, staff, and students may apply for accommodation for part or all of the summer; other eligibility restrictions do not apply during this period. B. Eligibility Policy - 24 Hour Parking 24-hour parking applicants whose primary residence is in reasonable proximity to the Morningside campus are eligible for Morningside parking. Reasonable proximity is defined as north of West 96th Street to West 145th Street from Central Park West (or its equivalent) to Riverside Drive. Applicants in leased University housing in Manhattan that is outside the area defined above are also considered eligible if they meet the other eligibility requirements for parking described in this statement. 24-hour parking applicants whose primary residence is The Arbor are eligible for parking in that facility. Active full-time Barnard faculty members residing in University housing are eligible for 24- hour parking as long as they remain in University housing. Barnard faculty who do not reside in University housing are not eligible for parking. Faculty and other instructional staff who retire from the University and continue to live in reasonable proximity to the Morningside Heights campus, as defined above, may retain 24-hour parking privileges in Morningside facilities as retirees. Other affiliates may only retain parking privileges upon retirement if they continue to reside in University Apartment Housing. Retirees who did not previously have a space in a University 24-hour garage other than The Arbor are not eligible to apply for parking privileges. Individuals who park in The Arbor may retain those privileges after retirement. Subject to the availability of space, other individuals who move into The Arbor after retirement are eligible for 24-hour parking in that facility. Surviving spouses or same sex domestic partners, as recognized by Human Resources, of University officers with 24-hour parking in a Morningside facility who continue to live in reasonable proximity to the Morningside Heights campus, as defined above, may retain the officer’s space. Surviving spouses of officers who did not have a 24-hour parking space are not eligible for 24-hour parking in a Morningside facility. Surviving spouses or same sex domestic partners, as recognized by Human Resources, of University officers with 24-hour parking in The Arbor may retain the officer’s space in that facility. Subject to the availability of space, other surviving spouses or same sex domestic partners who moved into The Arbor after the death of the officer are eligible for 24-hour parking in that facility. Eligible parkers are limited to one 24-hour parking space per household. C. Eligibility Policy - Commuter Parking Commuter parking applicants must reside outside the borough of Manhattan. Adjunct Columbia faculty members who reside outside the borough of Manhattan are eligible for commuter parking on the days they teach. Current students with a valid Columbia University ID who reside outside the borough of Manhattan are eligible for commuter parking from Monday through Friday between 4:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. and on Saturday between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. by application on a space available basis. Retired full-time faculty are eligible for commuter parking on the days they teach or if they are engaged in sponsored research. Car poolers must live in the same general location and commute together to and from the University on a regular basis or based on a teaching schedule. D. Allocation Policies Upon approval by the Parking Committee, faculty members will be assigned parking based on the following guidelines: Eligible faculty of a professorial rank will receive first priority for parking spaces in the Morningside facilities: (a) by tenure status; (b) by rank including those appointed in a visiting rank and (c) based on special considerations relating to the efforts of deans to recruit and retain the most qualified senior faculty. Officers of instruction with a non-professorial title, officers of research, professional librarians and administrative officers will receive second priority: (a) by rank; and (b) based on special considerations relating to the efforts of deans and vice presidents to recruit the most qualified staff, and to the extent spaces are available after faculty have been accommodated. Assignments to the 560 Riverside Drive Garage, subject to availability, will be made in the following order: (a) tenured faculty; (b) non-tenured faculty living in 560 Riverside Drive; (c) other eligible non-tenured faculty of a professorial rank; (d) other 560 Riverside Drive residents except students; (e) eligible nonprofessorial faculty and officers of the library; and (f) all other eligible officers. In making assignments in the Arbor Garage first priority is given to officers following the order as described in Section D. 1. The priority given to retired officers and their surviving spouses or same sex domestic partners who move into The Arbor is determined by the status of the officer prior to retirement. Students and post-doctoral officers of research who live in The Arbor may be assigned spaces in its garage after all other residents are accommodated. Student and postdoctoral officers of research parking assignments expire August 31st of each year. Time on the waiting list will not be considered in the initial assignment of parking. Requests by University faculty and other officers who have been previously approved for 24- hour parking to transfer to a different University 24-hour parking facility shall be approved by the Parking Committee, subject to availability, in the order listed based on the following guidelines: a. Tenured faculty in the order of the date of receipt of the transfer request. b. Non-tenured faculty who are residents of 560 Riverside Drive seeking to transfer into the parking facility at that location. c. Transfer requests from other eligible non-tenured faculty of a professorial rank in order determined by the Parking Committee based on the recommendation(s) of Deans or Vice Presidents. d. Other eligible parkers who are residents of 560 Riverside Drive seeking to transfer into the parking facility at that location. e. Non-professorial faculty and officers of the libraries in order determined by the Parking Committee based on the recommendation(s) of Deans or Vice Presidents. f. All other eligible officers in order determined by the Parking Committee based on the recommendation(s) of Deans or Vice Presidents. E. Other Policies Parkers are required to present proof of a valid, current vehicle registration issued to the employee, his/her spouse, or his/her same sex domestic partner as recognized by Human Resources. Parkers are required to notify the Parking Office in advance of any change of address or vehicle used for parking. Registrations will be checked for compliance no less than every three years. All information provided for this purpose will be maintained confidentially by the Parking Department solely for confirming compliance with the University’s Parking Policy. Parkers are responsible for the monthly fee for their parking space 12 months a year unless they are subletting to another eligible officer who has been approved by Columbia University Facilities. Parkers on an approved University leave retain their rights to their space. If such parkers vacate their space during their leave, they may begin parking upon notification to the Parking Department upon their return. The University may elect to re-lease the space to another eligible officer selected by the Parking Committee for the period during which the primary tenant is not parking. Parkers may not sublet their space without prior approval of the Parking Office of Columbia University Facilities and Operations. Parkers currently employed by the University are required to agree to pay all monthly parking charges via payroll deduction, except in the case of a short-term, temporary assignment of a space, in which case the full cost for the agreed period must be paid prior to occupancy. Retirees and other parkers not currently on University payroll will be invoiced on a monthly basis. A deposit is required for each facility in which a space is leased. Overnight parking is not allowed in commuter garages. Commuter parkers who may occasionally need to park overnight for University business may contact the Parking Department to arrange parking at the daily rate in a 24-hour facility. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies 1. Human Resources definitions and policies are followed with respect to job titles, full versus part time, and same sex domestic partners. 2. Human Resources benefit policy states that University commuter parkers are already paying for parking through a pre-tax deduction and should not sign up for the T/PRP parking account. 3. Office of Disability Services: https://health.columbia.edu/services/ods 4. Medical Center Parking: https://www.cumc.columbia.edu/facilities-management/campus-life/getting-and-around-campus/cuimc-parking Web Address for Policy https://transportation.columbia.edu/parking Forms, rates, the location of parking facilities at the Morningside campus and other related documents may be found on this website. Appendix Procedures 1. Application Procedures: Applications can be obtained online or by calling 212-854-9455. Application forms should be completed and submitted with the required documentation as specified on the application form. Parkers are required to present proof of a valid, current vehicle registration issued to the employee, his/her spouse, or his/her same sex domestic partner as recognized by Human Resources. Registrations will be checked for compliance no less than every three years. 2. The Parking Committee generally meets on the second Monday of every month. Applicants assigned parking spaces are notified within three business days. Applicants not assigned spaces are placed on a wait list until space is available and are considered at the next Parking Committee meeting. 3. Garage access: Stickers will be issued for University-owned garages. 4. Payment: Parkers pay charges via payroll deduction. A refundable parking deposit is required and is refunded upon vacancy notification. Adjunct faculty, students, and summer parkers must pay the parking fee in full prior to parking. Issued Date: March 15, 2002 Latest Revision: July 1, 2013 Contact Parking Office General Inquiries [email protected] (212) 854-9455 Operations and Billing Manager, Residential Finance and Parking [email protected] (212) 854-9456 Policy Issues Assistant Vice President, Residential Finance and Parking [email protected] (212) 854-8733 Responsible University Office Facilities and Operations Audience Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants Category Finance and Administration Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close