Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home International Travel Planning Policy International Travel Planning Policy An essential part of Columbia University’s mission is “to support research and teaching on global issues” and “to convey the products of its efforts to the world.” These activities frequently involve travel outside of the United States. While traveling internationally can be an enriching experience, it also entails risks. Because of this, careful planning must precede international travel, even for seasoned travelers. Each travel destination requires a different strategy for responding to small inconveniences and serious emergencies Expand all Collapse all Overview An essential part of Columbia University’s mission is “to support research and teaching on global issues” and “to convey the products of its efforts to the world.” These activities frequently involve travel outside of the United States. While traveling internationally can be an enriching experience, it also entails risks. Because of this, careful planning must precede international travel, even for seasoned travelers. Each travel destination requires a different strategy for responding to small inconveniences and serious emergencies. This policy establishes a set of guidelines and requirements for planning international travel and covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated or Recognized Travel, as defined below. It does not cover Non-Columbia Travel. Pre-travel requirements described in the Policy impact all Columbia affiliates. Reason(s) for the Policy Columbia University supports and encourages travel by affiliates whose educational, research, or occupational activities are international in scope. At the same time, the University seeks to reduce risk to travelers and the University by encouraging thorough preparation and common-sense practices while abroad. Primary Guidance to Which This Policy Responds None Responsible University Office and Officer Office of the Provost – Associate Provost for Administration and Planning Finance Division – Executive Vice President for Finance and Information Technology Who Is Covered by This Policy Members of the University community participating in international Columbia Travel or organizing international Columbia Travel. Who Should Know This Policy Members of the University community who are involved with supporting, planning, funding, or participating in international Columbia Travel. Exclusions & Special Situations Non-Columbia Travel is not covered by this policy. Policy Text Policy Text Columbia University requires that all members of the University community comply with specific procedures for international Columbia Travel. Planning and Preparation All affiliates participating in international Columbia Travel should closely review information, alerts and warnings, and other guidance issued by International SOS (or “ISOS,” the University’s current travel emergency assistance company), the U.S. Department of State, health authorities, and other governmental and non-governmental entities. Particular care should be taken for proposed travel to countries, specific regions, or cities which the U.S. Department of State has designated as Level 3: Reconsider Travel and Level 4: Do Not Travel locations. A link to U.S. Department of State Travel Advisories can be found at https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories.html/. Columbia University contracts with a travel emergency assistance company (currently ISOS) to provide 24-hour worldwide emergency medical and evacuation services for eligible individuals traveling internationally on Columbia Travel. Restrictions and limitations apply, and each traveler should carefully review the policies and guidance issued by ISOS in advance of travel. All travelers must register their international Columbia Travel with ISOS. Some travelers are required—and all others are strongly encouraged (see “Pre-Departure Travel Requirements”)—to consult with ISOS directly and in advance of travel regarding security advice. Additionally, ISOS assigns Travel Risk ratings to locations, and these risk ratings must be used to guide planning and fulfillment of pre-travel requirements. These ratings can be found at https://www.internationalsos.com/MasterPortal/default.aspx?membnum=11BSGC000064 (Click on “Know My Risks”). Affiliates on international Columbia Travel are provided insurance coverage for emergent illness and injury and any related ongoing follow-up during travel. Please visit https://globaltravel.columbia.edu for more information about this coverage. Information regarding coverage for routine or preventive coverage or for ongoing treatment of pre-existing conditions while abroad should be sought from individuals’ existing medical insurance. Employees are encouraged to contact HR Benefits to discuss their insurance options if they will be abroad for more than six months. For more information about the University’s student health insurance policies, please visit https://www.aetnastudenthealth.com/en/school/704502/members.html. In addition, all travelers should discuss what inoculations and other health measures are necessary with their healthcare provider when planning their trip. Columbia Health’s Travel Medicine Program also offers information and immunizations for international travel for students. For more information, students on the Morningside and Manhattanville campuses should visit http://health.columbia.edu/travel-medicine; CUIMC students should visit http://cumc.columbia.edu/student-health/medical-services/travel-services. Additional resources for international travel may also be found at http://globaltravel.columbia.edu. Questions and concerns about any travel should be discussed with senior faculty, directors, principal investigators, deans, senior staff, or student group advisers as needed. From time to time, the University may issue guidance, requirements, and restrictions regarding travel to specific designations, including countries subject to Comprehensive U.S. Sanctions. This guidance will be posted at https://globaltravel.columbia.edu/content/travel-high-andor-extreme-travel-risk-and-columbia-restricted-countries. Pre-Departure Travel Requirements Columbia students, officers of administration, and support staff must register their international Columbia Travel through the University’s Global Travel portal at https://globaltravel.columbia.edu/content/isos-mytrips and complete other pre-departure travel requirements as follows: For travel to Insignificant-risk and Low-risk ISOS Travel Risk locations, these affiliates are required to register international Columbia Travel. For travel to Medium-risk ISOS Travel Risk locations, these affiliates are required to register international Columbia Travel and have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS. For travel to High-risk ISOS Travel Risk locations, these affiliates are required to register international Columbia Travel, have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approval from their dean or administrative unit head. For travel to Extreme-risk ISOS Travel Risk locations, these affiliates are required to register international Columbia Travel, have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approvals from their dean or administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. For travel to countries in ISOS (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation status, these affiliates are required to register international Travel, have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approvals from their dean or administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. These designations will be posted at https://globaltravel.columbia.edu/content/advisories-and-alerts. Affiliates traveling in countries where the status changes to one of these levels during travel may be required to return earlier than planned. Officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and postdoctoral fellows/scholars are required to register their international Columbia travel with ISOS through the University’s Global Travel portal. If travel is booked through Columbia’s third-party travel management company (currently World Travel), this registration automatically occurs. For travel to Medium-, High-, and Extreme-risk locations, these affiliates are strongly encouraged to have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS. Additional information on how to book with World Travel can be found at https://travel-expense.finance.columbia.edu/. For travel to countries in ISOS (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation status, these affiliates are required to register international Travel, have their itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approvals from their dean or administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost, and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine. These designations will be posted at https://globaltravel.columbia.edu/content/advisories-and-alerts. Affiliates traveling in countries where the status changes to one of these levels during travel may be required to return earlier than planned. Officers of instruction, officers of research, officers of the libraries, and postdoctoral fellows/scholars who organize or facilitate international student trips or who travel with students must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements as noted above. All affiliates must also comply with any school- or unit-level travel policies or processes. Please refer to Appendix A for a chart describing this same pre-departure travel requirement information. Definitions This policy covers international Columbia Travel, which includes Columbia-Led Travel and Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel, as follows: Columbia-Led Travel is mission-related travel that is organized and overseen by Columbia University. Examples include but are not limited to: Columbia course activities and programs that are supervised by and fully or partially supported by Columbia, e.g., Columbia in Paris at Reid Hall Columbia-managed study-abroad programs Travel that fulfills Columbia grants or contracts Travel for Columbia athletics Non-student travel sponsored by Columbia for alumni Faculty, researchers, and officers traveling internationally on University business Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel is travel that is not overseen by Columbia University, but that may be partially funded or arranged by Columbia, may earn academic credit at Columbia, may be coordinated by a Columbia-recognized student group, or may be an extension of a faculty or researcher’s professional work. Examples include but are not limited to: International study through another university or outside organization, e.g., CASB program in Barcelona Approved exchange programs between Columbia and another university Co-ops, practica, or internships organized by Columbia departments, e.g., the IFAP Global Health Program International travel by graduate or professional students to do independent research for their dissertations Civic engagement or service trips such as those coordinated with recognized Columbia chapters of larger groups, or with the recognized global organization itself, e.g., Red Cross, Doctors without Borders, Engineers without Borders, Global Brigades, Habitat for Humanity, or the Columbia chapter of any of these groups or others Pre-professional and competition groups representing or competing on behalf of Columbia Columbia-funded travel such as travel supported by scholarships, travel grants, or by a Columbia-recognized student organization Non-Columbia Travel, which is not covered by this policy, is travel other than Columbia-Led Travel or Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel. Examples include but are not limited to: Independent student travel through a non-Columbia student organization Personal travel, such as spring break or vacations Related Considerations Travelers should be aware that many transactions, e.g., hiring personnel, procuring service contracts, making payments, etc., will carry additional requirements in countries outside the U.S. Travelers should familiarize themselves with the information provided through the Global Support pages of the Finance Gateway and seek advice as far in advance as possible by emailing [email protected] The U.S. government has a variety of restrictions on the export of equipment, technology, and information, as well as on the provision of services. Travel to certain embargoed countries may be heavily restricted. Regulations also govern the transfer to or expenditure of funds in certain countries and prohibit any dealings with “Specially Designated Individuals and Blocked Persons.” Please review additional information regarding U.S. export and trade controls available within the Global Support pages (see https://finance.columbia.edu/content/us-export-controls-transferring-technology-commodities-and-software-gs) before engaging in project activities. Note: Certain activities require export licenses, which require a significant lead-time, sometimes several months. Sponsored project agreements may limit foreign travel, may require prior approval from sponsors, or may include applicable constraints, e.g., Fly America Act. For further guidance with these terms, please consult your unit manager or Sponsored Projects Administration Senior Project Officer prior to booking your trip. Visit About Global Travel for a PDF of the policy, including a printable version of the chart below Cross Reference(s) to Related Pages and Policies Global Travel Travel Expense Policy Undergraduate International Travel Policy Pre-Departure Travel Requirements by Destination ISOS Travel Risk Rating and/or Evacuation Status (as defined by International SOS (ISOS): Expand all Collapse all Students, Officers of Administration, Support Staff ISOS Insignificant and Low Travel Risk Required to register International Columbia Travel ISOS Medium Risk Required to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS and register international Columbia Travel. ISOS High Risk Required to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, secure written approval from dean or unit head, and register international Columbia Travel. ISOS Extreme Risk Required to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, secure written approvals from dean/unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine, and register international Columbia travel. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation Required to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approvals from dean/administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine, and register international Columbia travel. Expand all Collapse all Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellow/Scholars traveling with students Must ensure that all student travelers have complied with all pre-departure travel requirements. Expand all Collapse all Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research, Officers of the Libraries, Postdoctoral Fellows/Scholars traveling without students ISOS Insignificant, Low, Medium, High and Extreme Travel Risk For travel to Medium-, High-, and Extreme-risk locations, strongly encouraged to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS. Required to register international Columbia Travel with ISOS. Evacuation Status of (1) Stand-by, (2) Evacuate: Non-Essential Personnel, or (3) Evacuate: Full Evacuation Required to have itinerary reviewed by ISOS, and receive written approvals from dean/administrative unit head and, for Morningside affiliates, from the Provost and for CUIMC affiliates, from the EVP and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine and register international Columbia travel. See Global Travel for a PDF of the policy, including a printable version of the table above. Issued Date: February 1. 2016 Latest Revision: April 1, 2022 Contact: Global Travel Responsible University Office Finance Provost Audience Officers of Administration Researchers Faculty Students Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Category Annual Notice Treasury Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close