Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy Sanitization and Disposal of Information Resources Policy Defines the requirements for appropriate data deletion and proper disposal methods to be used when discontinuing use of University devices Expand all Collapse all Overview I. Introduction A large volume of University Data is stored on Systems (as each such term is defined in the Columbia University Information Security Charter (the “Charter”)) throughout Columbia University. A substantial amount of such Data consists of Sensitive Data or Confidential Data. Unauthorized disclosure of such Data may expose the University to legal liability. Data sanitization is the deliberate and permanent removal of University Data from an Information Resource. This Policy defines the appropriate sanitization and disposal methods to be used. Capitalized terms used herein without definition are defined in the Charter. II. Policy History The effective date of this Policy is November 1, 2013. This Policy and the other Information Security Policies replace (A) the following University Policies: Data Sanitization and Disposal of Electronic Equipment Policy, dated January 1, 2008, as amended in February 2008 Electronic Information Resources Security Policy, dated March 1, 2007 and (B) the following CUIMC Policy: Information Security: Backup, Device and Media Controls Policy Text III. Policy Text Each System Owner, Data Owner, IT Custodian and User is responsible for determining if Sensitive Data is present on an Information Resource by, for example, periodically scanning the Information Resource using software provided by CUIT or CUIMC IT, and sanitizing all Information Resources with hard drives and Removable Media under his/her control prior to removal from the University in accordance with the following guidelines: A. Non-Sensitive Data. University Data other than Sensitive Data may be deleted and/or reformatted. B. Sensitive Data. Sensitive Data must be sanitized or disposed of in a manner that leaves such Data fully unrecoverable. Except as provided below, this can be accomplished by using one of the following methods: Data deletion software provided by CUIT or CUIMC IT data disposal processes; Information Security Office-approved destruction hardware to physically render the Sensitive Data storage media inoperable, such as degaussing, shredding, pulverizing or melting; Release of the Information Resource containing storage media to CUIT or CUIMC IT for destruction and disposal; or Release of the Information Resource containing storage media to an Information Security Office-approved vendor. Sensitive Data constituting EPHI must be sanitized and disposed of in accordance with the CUIMC Information Security Procedures. C. Paper Based Data All paper based Sensitive Data or Confidential Data must be destroyed using cross-shredding or through a contract with an Information Security Office approved-vendor. IV. Cross References to Related Policies and Other Documentation The Information Security Policies and certain additional documentation referred to in this Policy are listed in Appendix A hereto. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies Related Policies and Other Documentation CUIT Data Deletion Software CUIMC IT data disposal processes CUIMC Information Security Procedures Data Classification Policy Information Security Charter Effective Date Published: October 2013 Revised: November 2014, July 2019 [email protected] Responsible University Office Information Technology (CUIT) Audience Officers of Administration Students Visitors and Consultants Researchers Faculty Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Librarians Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close