Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Get Involved University Life Events Council University Life Events Council The Events Council's mission is to design events that energize the community and create opportunities to connect students across Columbia. Sign Up to Become a Committee Member What is the purpose of the University Life Events Council? The University Life Events Council is a group of students from each school who plan activities that connect students across all Columbia schools. Their goals are to: build community through University-wide social programs and events, create opportunities for students to connect beyond their schools through student engagement, leadership and programming, produce events that include film, wellness, inclusion and belonging, and University community traditions. Who is on the Events Council? The University Life Events Council is made up of: The Leadership Team: Students that take a larger role in the planning and implementation of events and programs, School Liaisons: Students who represent their schools and give feedback on University Life initiatives, Committee Members: Active members of the committees and event volunteers. Meet the Council What do Events Council members do? Events Council members perform a number of critical functions on behalf of other students and the University community, including: envisioning and creating appealing, inclusive and engaging events getting the word out to students about the events helping staff and/or enlisting volunteers for large-scale events keeping their school’s student government apprised of events promoting and/or co-sponsoring other student-led events University Life supports the Events Council with administrative liaisons, funding and logistical support and promotion. Learn more How do I join the Events Council? All Columbia students are welcome to apply for the Events Council leadership team, become a school liaison or join as a general council member! The Leadership application opens up from time-to-time, so keep an eye on our site for these opportunities. We'd love to hear from you if you are interested in getting involved. Volunteer for the Events Council CU FILM SHOWCASE 2022 Missed the showcase? No worries, check out our finalists' short films: University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close