Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Columbia University Event Policy Columbia University Event Policy The University has issued new guidance around spaces, gathering and public health protocols. Visit the University COVID-19 website to learn more, then contact our team to plan your event. Expand all Collapse all Overview Reason for the policy: New York state has imposed public health guidelines due to COVID-19 that impact campus event planner and execution Policy Text Key to NYC Program As outlined by the Key to NYC program, everyone over the age of 12 is required to show proof of vaccination to enter many New York City indoor activities such as restaurants, movie theaters, and gyms. This includes events with catering. Outdoor Space Use and Reservations For the safety and health of our community, outdoor spaces will be available as community spaces and reservable event spaces. Some reservable outdoor space is tented. View the Outdoor and Tented Space page on the Event Management website for more details. The University has issued new guidance around spaces, gathering and public health protocols. Visit the University COVID-19 website to learn more, then contact our team to plan your event. Venue Fact Sheets A summary of each of the following venues has been compiled in a printable PDF format showing key venue details, including capacity information and available room configurations. These fact sheets are also available from the main venue page for each of these venues. Earl Hall Faculty House Low Library Lerner Hall Saint Paul’s Chapel All Fact Sheets in One Document Event Management Spaces Gathering considerations and restrictions will be based on Columbia’s Framework for COVID-19 Risk Assessment and Management Plan, which takes into consideration that circumstances remain fluid. This guidance is designed to help you plan for your gathering but does not imply permission to proceed. Events & Catering All staff, clients and guests are required to wear face coverings. Event hosts should pre-register guests to avoid lines and assist with capacity concerns. Digital check-in and materials are recommended. Gathering in lobbies or other areas before or after event will not be permitted. If the event will be catered, there will be no buffet-style or self-serve F&B stations. Food must be staff-served with enhanced PPE or individually wrapped / boxed meals. Virtual Events Event Management offers Virtual Event Solutions for all virtual & hybrid events. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies Barbeque Event Policy Food Policy Guidelines for External Catering Providers Outdoor Space Policy Student Group Event Policy and Procedure Contact Executive Director, Event Management, Campus Services [email protected] (212) 853-1479 Responsible University Office Campus Services Facilities and Operations Audience Faculty Librarians Officers of Administration Researchers Students Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Visitors and Consultants Category Event Management Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close