Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Network Protection Policy Network Protection Policy Defines the requirements that all network, communications and telecommunications-related equipment and devices, including cabling, be installed and maintained by authorized Columbia University’s network and technology support groups Expand all Collapse all Overview I. Introduction The secure management of the University Network (as such term is defined in the Columbia University Information Security Charter (the “Charter”)), which may span organizational boundaries, requires the careful consideration of the flow of information and the regulatory requirements regarding monitoring and protection of Networks. The University requires that all Network, communications and telecommunications related equipment and devices, including cabling, be installed and maintained by CUIT or CUIMC IT, either alone or in collaboration with NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Information Technology. Capitalized terms used herein without definition are defined in the Charter. II. Policy History The effective date of this Policy is November 1, 2013. This Policy replaces the University Network and Communications Equipment Policy, dated June 2011. Policy Text III. Policy Text This Policy applies to all communications cabling, equipment and infrastructure devices, including but not limited to the following: telecommunications switches, data networking switches and routers, wireless access points, cellular distributed antenna systems, cellular repeaters and/or bi-directional amplifiers, cellular macro sites, cable and satellite television reception and distribution equipment. A. Standard Requirements The following equipment must be installed and maintained by CUIT or CUIMC IT: Communications cabling, including any permanent cabling and/or cabling between workspaces and rooms intended to be used for voice and data networking or other communications; Routers on the University Network that serve to segment the Network; Communications switches and hubs (e.g., Ethernet switches) on the University Network; Wireless Access Point (WAPs) and other wireless devices that provide access to, or bridge, the University Network; Telecommunications equipment (e.g., PBXes, VOIP systems, etc.); Cellular telephone (voice and data) communications infrastructure cabling, antennas, and equipment; and Cable and satellite television infrastructure cabling, antennas and equipment. All Network enabled devices connected to the University Network (other than Network enabled devices connected to the CUIMC Network) must use (a) the DHCP to configure Network IP addresses and (b) the DNS protocol for Server information. Network enabled devices connected to the CUIMC Network must adhere to CUIMC’s Network and security procedures. CUIT and CUIMC IT staff implement the appropriate logging and monitoring of Networks in accordance with the Columbia University Information Resource Access Control and Log Management Policy. Standard protections are established by the applicable Information Security Office and implemented by CUIT or CUIMC IT staff to safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of University information passing over public and wireless Networks. B. Bandwidth Quotas To maintain Network performance, CUIT has implemented an automated Network bandwidth quota system. Individual computers may be limited in either the inbound or outbound direction. Limits are imposed only on off-campus traffic to or from the Internet. Traffic on the University's internal Network and on Internet2 is not restricted in any way. The parameters of this system may be changed without prior notice in order to ensure proper functioning of the Network for the University community. An exception to the Internet bandwidth limitations may be granted for Servers used for legitimate University business through the use of the Network Quota Exception Request See Bandwidth Quotas and Network Performance for more information on bandwidth quotas. C. Waivers and Exceptions Any Executive Manager may request that a Network or communications infrastructure that is not maintained by CUIT or CUIMC IT be granted a waiver of the provisions of this Policy by the applicable Information Security Office. Such a waiver may only be granted if such Officer determines that there are compensating controls in place to address all major information security risks. IV. Cross References to Related Policies The Information Security Policies and certain additional documentation are listed in Appendix A hereto. Cross Reference(s) to Related Policies Related Policies and Other Documentation Bandwidth Quotas and Network Performance Information Resource Access Control and Log Management Policy Information Security Charter Network Quota Exception Request Effective Date Published: October 2013 Revised: November 2014, September 2016, July 2019 [email protected] Responsible University Office Information Technology (CUIT) Audience Officers of Administration Students Visitors and Consultants Researchers Faculty Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Librarians Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close