Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home University Event Policy University Event Policy University departments, offices, groups, and student organizations and non-affiliates requesting to reserve campus facilities are expected to follow University Event Policies. Expand all Collapse all Overview Reason(s) for the Policy To establish that event advertising is the responsibility of the event host and to disclose what type of information must be communicated To clarify the definition and role of an event sponsor To establish how a non-affiliate can gain access to University facilities Policy Text Advertising Policy Event advertising, both on and off campus, may not be done before copy is approved by the host venue manager and, where relevant, the student activities adviser or appropriate dean. When an event requires admission by ticket, or if there is an attendance limit, all advertising must describe these requirements. If an event is sold out, the sponsoring organization must make a good faith effort to publicize that information. If admission requires an ID, copy must include which IDs will be accepted, stating “Valid ID card from (insert names of invited schools or organizations) or Columbia University required for admission to event.” The sponsoring organization must be the sole source of event advertising and its name must appear on all advertising. Advertising indicating that a Columbia University school or department is sponsoring the event must receive written consent of the appropriate University dean or designated school officer. University policies and state laws covering the distribution or sale of alcohol at an event will apply to all advertising copy. Advanced Copy Of Event Promotional Material and Other Collateral Non-affiliated organizations must include the following language on all promotional material and other collateral for events to be held at Columbia University: "This event is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by Columbia University. " Such language must be in a font type and size no smaller than the font type and size used in the rest of the event promotional material or other collateral. All promotional material and other collateral must be submitted prior to being distributed in connection with the event. Further, in any event promotional materials, use of the COLUMBIA name must be secondary to the event name, building name and street address. By way of example, for an event to be held in Lerner Hall, an acceptable subject line in an email promotion would be the following: "Writing Workshop, Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, Columbia University. Failure to comply with these provisions will result in cancellation. Event Sponsorship The sponsor of an event must be a recognized University group or organization, identified by a University chart string and, in the case of Student Events, an adviser. The sponsor is the primary planner and contact for the event and accepts full responsibility for all stages of planning and execution of the event. In addition, the sponsoring organization must have a strong presence at the event and, when necessary, have a valid University account number or have approved access to a valid University account number and take fiscal responsibility for event costs. The sponsoring organization or group must be the sole source of event advertising and must have its name on all such advertising. For cosponsored events, both groups and organizations must qualify as described above. Co-sponsorship of an event with those not affiliated with the University will be considered under the non-affiliate policy. Event sponsors may not transfer a reservation to another organization, nor may space reserved for an approved program be used for another purpose. Non-Affiliates Columbia-recognized University departments or offices may sponsor non-affiliates seeking to hold events at Columbia. Nonprofit community organizations, public and civic organizations, political organizations, and governmental organizations must use the University’s Office of Government Relations and Community Affairs as their campus contact and sponsor in arranging for space. A sponsor is the primary planner or contact for the event and accepts full responsibility for all stages of planning and execution of the event. In addition, the sponsoring organization must have a strong presence at the event and, when necessary, have a valid University chartstring and take fiscal responsibility for event costs. The sponsoring department or office is expected to approve all advertising for the event. Event sponsors may not transfer a reservation to another organization, nor may space reserved for an approved program be used for another purpose. University Interest In order for a non-affiliate to gain access to University facilities, there should be a significant University interest in hosting the event. There should also be a strong nexus between the event the non-affiliate wishes to hold at the University and the educational and research mission of the University or its standing as a member of the community. As a starting point, the non-affiliate should speak with a department head or representative of the Office of Governmental and Community Affairs. In addition, the non-affiliate must agree to comply with all of the University’s standard terms and conditions. Contact Executive Director, Event Management, Campus Services [email protected] (212) 853-1479 Responsible University Office Campus Services Facilities and Operations Audience Faculty Researchers Librarians Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants Category Annual Notice Facilities Operations Event Management Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close