Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Medical Leave of Absence: Non-Union Support Staff Medical Leave of Absence: Non-Union Support Staff The policy below describes paid medical leave for Non-Union Support Staff. Those employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement shall follow the schedule as stipulated in their union contract. Regular Non-Union Support Staff hired prior to October 21, 1994 will be paid sick leave in accordance with the following schedule: Length of Service Number of Days Per Year Length of Service One day but less than 60 calendar days Number of Days Per Year None Length of Service 60 calendar days but less than one full year Number of Days Per Year 7 Length of Service One year but less than three completed years Number of Days Per Year 10 Length of Service Three years but less than five completed years Number of Days Per Year 15 Length of Service 5 years but less than 10 completed years Number of Days Per Year 20 Length of Service 10 years but less than 15 completed years Number of Days Per Year 25 Length of Service 15 years or more Number of Days Per Year 30 The above is modified as follows: Effective October 1, 2001, Non-Union Support Staff shall be entitled to accumulate up to 60 working days of paid medical leave during any one year, including the days earned or to be earned in the current sick leave year. Paid medical leave will be prorated for part-time Non-Union Support Staff by the number of days and hours they work per week. Should the anniversary date occur while a Non-Union Support Staff member is on a medical leave of absence, the member will not be eligible for new paid medial leave allotment until he or she returns to work. Accumulated paid medical leave is not paid upon termination. The Non-Union Support Staff member must provide proof of illness or accident (a physician’s note,) within one week of disability onset. The Non-Union Support Staff member must be under a physician’s care consistent with the medical condition in order to be approved for a medical leave of absence. Additionally, for non-occupational claims, if not already submitted, the Officer must file a New York State Disability Claim with our Carrier and, if applicable, the Department of Labor FMLA form WH-380E. For non-occupational illness consistent with New York State Disability guidelines, the disability form must be completed within 30 days of claiming disability. Non-Union Support Staff injured on the job must complete an accident report as soon as possible after the accident and submit the form to their supervisor. The University, at any time during the leave of absence, may at its own expense require an examination by a University-designated physician, and may place salary on hold pending such evaluation. Non-Union Support Staff taking leave for a serious health condition will be required to obtain medical clearance from their healthcare provider prior to returning to work. The University may require additional clearance by a University-designated physician. While on medical leave Non-Union Support Staff are expected to remain at the primary residence; any plans to relocate or extended travel may result in ineligibility for a medical leave of absence. If a Non-Union Support Staff is already on vacation and becomes ill, paid medical leave cannot be utilized unless he or she provides proof that he or she has been hospitalized, on other than an outpatient basis, and with the approval of the University. Non-Union Support Staff employees hired on or after October 21, 1994, will be paid medical leave as follows: After 30 days of employment, Non-Union Support Staff shall be entitled to paid medical leave earned at the rate of one day for each month of employment, retroactive to date of hire, up to a maximum of 12 days per year. After one or more years of employment, Non-Union Support Staff shall be entitled to a total of 12 additional days of paid medical leave as of the beginning of his or her second and each subsequent year of employment, provided that at no time will an employee be entitled to accumulate more than 60 working days of sick leave during any one year, including the days earned or to be earned in the current sick leave year. Paid medical leave will be prorated for regular part-time Non-Union Support Staff by the number of days and hours they work per week. Should the anniversary date occur while a Non-Union Support Staff member is on a medical leave of absence, the member will not be eligible for new paid medical leave allotment until he or she returns to work. Accumulated paid medical leave is not paid upon termination. The Non-Union Support Staff member must be able to provide proof of illness or accident, (e.g., a physician’s note,) within one week of disability onset. The Non-Union Support Staff member must be under a physician’s care consistent with the medical condition in order to be approved for a medical leave of absence. Additionally, for non-occupational claims, if not already submitted, the Officer must file a New York State Disability Claim with our Carrier and, if applicable, the Department of Labor FMLA form WH-380E. For non-occupational illnesses consistent with New York State disability guidelines, the disability form must be completed within 30 days of claiming disability. The University, at any time during the leave of absence, may at its own expense require an examination by a University-designated physician, and may place salary on hold pending such evaluation. Non-Union Support Staff injured on the job must complete an accident report as soon as possible after the accident and submit the form to their supervisor. Non-Union Support Staff taking leave for a serious health condition will be required to obtain medical clearance from their healthcare provider prior to returning to work. The University may require additional clearance by a University-designated physician. While on medical leave the Non-Union Support Staff are expected to remain at the primary residence. Any plans to relocate or extended travel may result in ineligibility for a medical leave of absence. If a Non-Union Support Staff is already on vacation and becomes ill, paid medical leave cannot be utilized unless he or she provides proof that he or she has been hospitalized, on other than an outpatient basis, and with the approval of the University. All Non-Union Support Staff members may use accrued paid medical leave for their own medical or dental appointments or for appointments for family members, as defined below: Non-Union Support Staff must schedule the appointment with and communicate the time to their supervisor at least one week in advance (except in case of emergency treatment) Paid medical leave must be taken in one hour increments. The supervisor may require documentation of the appointment. Approval for use of paid medical leave will not be unreasonably denied (under this section, use of sick leave may be denied if operational needs require the Non-Union Support Staff member’s presence or if the position must be covered on an overtime basis by another member). Non-Union Support Staff who have been given a written warning or who have been suspended for excessive absenteeism or tardiness within the previous year may be denied the use of paid medical leave for medical or dental appointments. All Non-Union Support Staff shall be entitled to use up to four days of paid medical leave each year for family illness (spouse, child or family member residing in the employee’s household). Note: While on paid medical leave by Columbia University, Non-Union Support Staff who receive New York State Disability payments or Workers Compensation payments must immediately remit these payments to the University. Benefits under FMLA, if applicable, run concurrently while receiving paid medical leave. Pregnancy-related disability is treated like any other non-occupational disability circumstance. At the cessation of the disability period, the Non-Union Support Staff member may request an unpaid parental care leave. Expand all Collapse all Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Workplace Essentials: Taking a Leave of Absence Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Contact: Leave Management [email protected] (212) 851-0698 Responsible University Office Human Resources Category Time Away from Work Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close