Skip to main content Toggle Navigation Menu University Communications and Marketing Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home About Us Awards and Honors 2019 StateComm Summer Institute Peer Groups Our Team Administration Development Communications and Stewardship University Special Events Marketing Communications Strategic Brand Management University Relations Services Filming Guidelines Web Workshops Toolkits Protect the Pack Toolkit Brand Toolkit Campaign Toolkit Communications and Marketing Toolkit NC State Photos Red and White Week Toolkit Day of Giving Toolkit Contact Us Think and Do The Extraordinary The Campaign for NC State Home About Us Our Team Services Toolkits Contact Us Full Site Navigation About Us Awards and Honors 2019 StateComm Summer Institute 2019 Summer Institute Presentations 2019 Summer Institute Registration 2019 Summer Institute FAQ Peer Groups Our Team Administration Development Communications and Stewardship University Special Events Marketing Communications Strategic Brand Management University Relations Services Filming Guidelines Web Workshops Toolkits Protect the Pack Toolkit Resources Content Strategy Media Relations Photography Social Media Guidelines Events Day of Giving Working Remotely Campus Communications Brand Toolkit Campaign Toolkit Communications and Marketing Toolkit NC State Photos Red and White Week Toolkit Day of Giving Toolkit Email Dates and Deadlines Deadlines Calendar Frontline Fundraisers Manual Gift Counting Guidelines Gift Intent Forms Email Content Outline CFR Guidelines EMDS Lock-Ups Email Strategy Print Collateral Key Messages Email Signature Development Officer Fact Sheet Giving Day Challenges Counting Rules Website Images Board Member Letter VIP Window Details Video Share Challenge Social Media Profile Picture Frame Facebook Cover Videos Twitter Cover Photos Content Calendar Video Share Challenge Volunteer Opportunities Announcement Slides Volunteer Fundraisers Toolkit Handbook Email Templates Quick Links VIP Linkbuilder Homepage University Communications and Marketing is NC State's dedicated communications agency. Our team provides leadership, strategy, services and support to advance the NC State brand and help the university achieve its core mission. Our goal is to lead and support every part of NC State in telling the university’s story. Brad Bohlander Associate Vice Chancellor of Communications and Marketing Join Forces With Us Whatever your needs, we’ll work with you to ensure successful, targeted, collaborative communications. We do it all: strategy, planning, public and media relations, crisis communications, marketing, web development, social media, video, photography and graphic design. What We Do Contact Us Our Team Marketing Communications From strategy to creative to measurement, we run the gamut of marketing skills. University Relations Our writers, editors and public relations pros tell the world what’s happening at NC State. Events We make special events truly special, from The Point to the PNC Arena. Development Communications and Stewardship We communicate about the importance of private support to help take our university from good to great. The NC State Brand Your Guide to "Think and Do" University Communications and Marketing is the keeper and curator of the NC State brand — the sum of how the university presents itself and its mission to the world. To help you make the most of this powerful tool, we provide a wealth of resources on our dedicated brand site. Get started University Communications and Marketing 3210 Faucette Drive Butler Communications Building Box 7508 Raleigh, NC 27695 NC State NC State Brand Think and Do Apply to NC State Support NC State Strategic Plan Copyright Information Privacy Statement NC State News NC State Social Media © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.