Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home About This Site About This Site Expand all Collapse all Vision and Scope This website is an initiative to consolidate non-academic, University-wide policies in one location, allowing Columbia students, faculty, and staff to easily find policies applicable to them. Previously, people had to search multiple sites to find the policy information they needed. In this site's first phase of development, the central offices of Columbia Facilities and Operations; Finance; and Human Resources have been the primary participants by consolidating on this site the policies that previously resided on policy sites managed by these teams. The addition of new policies will follow the review and approval process currently established by the Administrative Policy Advisory Council, a group with a broad cross-section of University administrators. As this site grows and visits increase, we welcome the participation of additional offices and departments to further enhance the site's value to the Columbia community. Disclaimer This site is intended to be a repository for non-academic policies that are broadly applicable to the University. However, it does not include all Columbia University policies. Visit our listing of additional policy sources. For policies that apply solely to an individual Columbia entity such as a school, department, laboratory, or research center, please refer to that entity's own sources of policy-related information. Finding a Policy on This Site You can find policies on this site by: using the main menu to search by your role (e.g., Students, Faculty, etc.) using the main menu to search by the responsible office (e.g., Finance, Human Resources, etc.) entering keywords in the search bar in the upper right corner (e.g., "Social Security Number Usage," "Purchasing Cards," etc.) Questions about a Listed Policy If you have questions about one of the policies listed on this site, contact the responsible office identified in the right-hand sidebar of that policy's web page. Direct your questions to the policy owner using the details in the policy page's sidebar. Adding or Revising a Policy Adding a new policy or revising an existing policy on this site involves several steps outlined in the diagram below. Consult and research Draft or revise the policy. (Follow the format of the unpublished “University Policies Template” that may be found in the Content Library while in edit mode.) Review and approve Publish, communicate, and keep current Please review the diagram below: General Questions about This Site If you have a general question about the University Policies website, send an email to our University Policies team. If you have questions about one of the policies listed on this site, contact the responsible office identified in the right-hand sidebar of that policy's web page. Technical Issues If you experience technical issues that affect the site's stability or performance, contact [email protected]. Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close