Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives Welcome Home Columbia Welcome Home Columbia Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 marked the opportunity to reconnect, strengthen, and rebuild as a community as Columbia's campuses reopened. 2021-22's Welcome Home Columbia was created as a series of events to bring our community together. Thank you for joining us! Interested in learning more about 2021-22's Welcome Home Columbia? Learn more about the events we held below. A series of creative, community-building, virtual and in-person events to welcome all Columbia students. Events included: Speed Friending Maps and Snacks Justice Through the Arts Fair Virtual Film Screenings Affinity Spaces Low-Lapalooza MLK Day of Service Trivia Tuesday A series of events to reflect on what we experienced from 2020-2021, consider the present moment, and look with hope toward what lies ahead. Events included: Memorial Events Movement Medicine Workshops All-Day Musical Reflection Multi-Faith Service of Music, Reflection, and Hope Antiracism Workshops and Discussions on Race A two-day, team-based scavenger hunt which explored Columbia's incredible resources and campuses. Curious about what resources are available to you at Columbia's campuses? Columbia Quest was a great opportunity to explore these first-hand! See you next time! Stay tuned for more information about Fall 2022's Welcome Home Columbia event series. Image Carousel with 11 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Students at Lowlapalooza 2021 Slide 2: Students at Lowlapalooza 2021 Slide 3: Students at Lowlapalooza 2021 Slide 4: Students at Lowlapalooza 2021 Slide 5: Students at Lowlapalooza 2021 Slide 6: Columbia Reflects Multi-Faith Service Slide 7: Columbia Reflects Multi-Faith Service Slide 8: Columbia Reflects Multi-Faith Service Slide 9: Students at Columbia Quest 2021 Slide 10: Students at Columbia Quest 2021 Slide 11: Students at Columbia Quest 2021 Previous Next University Life would like to share a special thanks the Office of the President for their sponsorship of Welcome Home Columbia. We would also like to thank all schools, central units and the Office of Public Affairs for their support, including the members of the Welcome Home Columbia Planning Committee, listed below. Athletics, College of Dental Medicine, Columbia Alumni Association, Columbia Health, CUIT, Facilities, Global Centers, Graduate School of Business, ISSO, Columbia Libraries, CUIMC Libraries, Mailman School of Public Health, School of Nursing, Public Safety (Morningside), Public Safety (CUIMC), Office of Religious Life, School of General Studies, Columbia Law, School of Professional Studies, School of the Arts, Student Health on Haven University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close