Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Managing Transfers, Internal Mobility and Re-Hires Managing Transfers, Internal Mobility and Re-Hires Columbia University supports an environment that values career mobility and encourages employees who express an interest, and have the abilities, to pursue appropriate vacancies to foster their career development. This policy establishes a University-wide process for effectively managing the movement of employees both between and within schools and departments for approved positions. Expand all Collapse all Reason For This Policy The purpose of this policy is to establish appropriate communication between departments with respect to an employee transferring from one department to another, or an employee who previously worked in one department and being considered to work in another, and to maintain fairness and equity with regard to employees moving into new opportunities. Who Is Governed By This Policy This policy affects all Officers of Administration, Administrative Officers of the Libraries and Non-Union Support Staff employees of Columbia University. Who Should Know This Policy All Columbia University Officers of Administration, Administrative Officers of the Libraries and Non-Union Support Staff should review and understand this policy. Department Administrators, Human Resource representatives and Hiring Managers should review and understand this policy, as well as refer to the Administrative Hiring Guide in the Manager Toolkit Exclusions and Special Situations Academic officers, Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research and Officers of the Libraries should refer to the Faculty Handbook. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are governed by the provisions of their respective contract. Collective bargaining agreements may be found in the CUHR website Policy Text University employees who have completed one year of service in their current position may apply and be considered for a posted job opportunity at the University. In special circumstances and with CUHR approval, an employee may seek a transfer prior to completing one year of service in his or her current position. In addition to experience, skills and qualifications, future career moves and opportunities for re-hire will depend upon successful performance and demonstrated success, including the current or most recent position. All employees are subject to the standard background checking process for any University position for which they apply. Any open position must be reviewed and approved by the department or school before posting in TalentLink. Please consult with your Senior Human Resources Business Partner for any questions regarding the hiring process and filling vacancies within your department. The guidelines described below establish a University-wide process for effectively managing the movement of internal staffing both between and within schools and departments for approved positions and hiring employees who have previously worked at the University. Positions that are waived from posting in TalentLink are also subject to this policy. Guidelines 1. Position is approved by department or school, funding is confirmed and job description is posted in the TalentLink system. 2. Any qualified and eligible employees may apply for the position as appropriate. 3. After the employee applies for the open position, the Hiring Manager may initiate a confidential informal meeting with the internal candidate to determine mutual interest. This step is optional and at the discretion of the Hiring Manager. 4. After meeting with the internal candidate and reviewing his or her qualifications, the Hiring Manager determines if the candidate should proceed with his or her application and engage in the interview process. 5. If a Hiring Manager determines that an internal candidate is the finalist, he or she should inform the candidate. At this point, the candidate must inform his or her supervisor that he or she is the finalist prior to a formal offer being made. The candidate must confirm completion of this step with the Hiring Manager within a reasonable and mutually agreed upon time frame. 6. After confirmation of step 5, the Hiring Manager should follow-up with and obtain feedback on work performance from the finalist's supervisor or designated reference(s) prior to a formal offer being made. NOTE: It is required that a review of work performance and/or performance appraisals is fairly and consistently applied to all internal and re-hire candidates and completed before any verbal or written offer is made. The Senior Human Resources Business Partner for both departments will ensure that a review of the candidate's work performance has been conducted before any offer is made. Any questions or concerns about this step should be reviewed with the Senior Human Resources Business Partner. 7. After completion of step 6, the Hiring Manager can formally offer the position to the finalist. After the offer has been accepted, the Hiring Manager and supervisor should jointly determine the finalist's start date. The release date for transferring employees may be extended beyond the standard thirty (30) day notice period because of critical operational needs and with necessary approvals. NOTE: If the supervisor considers extending the release date beyond the standard notice period for transferring employees, the supervisor must provide a business rationale that requires review and approval by CUHR or CUIMC-HR prior to any discussion with the hiring manager and finalist. In addition to CUHR or CUIMC-HR approval, the hiring manager, the supervisor and the finalist must mutually consent to the agreement. It is expected that the release date will not exceed a total of two months. Any questions or concerns about this step should be reviewed with the Senior Human Resources Business Partner. 8. Hiring Manager confirms offer in writing to finalist including salary, title and start date. Definitions TalentLink: Online job posting and application system. TalentLink lists open administrative positions for the University and the Medical Center. Internal Candidate: Any eligible and qualified staff member who applies for another position within the University. Finalist: The final candidate being considered for a position. Rehire: Any individual who was previously employed by the University. Special Notices Administrative Hiring Guide: Hiring guidelines are located in the Manager Toolkit on the CUHR website. Lateral Transfer: Movement of a regular full or part-time staff member from one regular position to another without a break in service. This includes transfers within the same or equivalent grade, within the same department or to another department within the University. If considering a lateral move with a salary increase, please consult with your Senior Human Resources Business Partner to receive appropriate salary guidance. Salary Increases: Departments that wish to promote a current employee should discuss the planned salary increase with their Senior Human Resources Business Partner for appropriate guidance. Promotional salary increases over 10% per grade must be justified using the current salary exception form found on the CUHR website. Please consult with your Senior Human Resources Business Partner to receive appropriate salary guidance. In instances where an employee transfers into a new job as a result of internal job posting, the amount of the salary increase will be driven by the new salary grade, and must be discussed with the Senior Human Resources Business Partner. Exclusions and Special Situations Academic officers, Officers of Instruction, Officers of Research and Officers of the Libraries should refer to the Faculty Handbook. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are governed by the provisions of their respective contract. Collective bargaining agreements may be found in the CUHR website. Responsibilities and Roles Hiring Manager: Ensures that position is approved by the department or school, funded and posted on the TalentLink system. The Hiring Manager also determines a candidate’s eligibility and requirements as stated in this policy are met. The Hiring Manager is expected to fully engage in the employee transfer guidelines as described in this policy. Supervisor: Is expected to fully engage in the employee transfer guidelines as described in this policy. Senior Human Resources Business Partner: Provides HR support and assists department with the employee transfer process and policy interpretation. Internal Candidate: Reviews the position qualifications and applies for the posted internal position on TalentLink. The internal candidate is expected to fully engage in the employee transfer guidelines as described in this policy. Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Administrative Staff Search Onboarding Salary Exception Form Termination of Employment Internal Mobility Policy Effective Date: July 1, 2010 Latest Revision: September 25, 2018 Contact: Executive Director, Recruitment and HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor 212 851 0622 [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Category Recruitment Related Policies and Content Salary Exception Review Form Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close