Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Verification of Employment Eligibility (I-9) Policy Verification of Employment Eligibility (I-9) Policy Who is governed by This Policy: This policy covers all employees of the University. Who should know This Policy: All University employees should review and understand this policy. Departmental Administrators and Human Resource managers should review and understand this policy as well as refer to the HR Manager Toolkit located on the Columbia University Human Resources website. Policy Columbia University complies with federal laws and regulations concerning verification of employment eligibility and associated record keeping for employees hired to work in the United States. Columbia University is an E-Verify employer. As both a Federal Contractor and as an institution that employs students who have earned degrees in certain science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields, the University participates in the Federal E-Verify program. Employees are legally required to complete the I-9 Form, including providing required original supporting documents to establish their identity and eligibility to perform work for an employer in the United States. Employees must complete Section I of the I-9 Form on or before their first day of employment. Verification of employment eligibility (Section II of the I-9 Form) must be completed within three (3) business days of the first day of work. Anyone with questions regarding employment and/or identity verification, or any Columbia representative responsible for I-9 authorization who would like additional training should contact their HR Client Manager. Expand all Collapse all Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content I-9 Form Effective Date: January 1, 1993 Latest Revision: August 19. 2019 Contact: HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Faculty Officers of Administration Support Staff (Union) Support Staff (Non-Union) Category Employment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close