Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Recruitment and Administrative Hiring Policy Recruitment and Administrative Hiring Policy Columbia University is committed to attracting and retaining the best qualified workforce, as well as providing equal employment opportunity for all applicants. In support of its commitment, the University recruits, hires, and promotes individuals without regard to race, color, sex, gender, pregnancy, religion, creed, marital status, partnership status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, national origin, disability, military status, or any other legally protected status. All regular non-academic position vacancies are advertised (posted) in the TalentLink online applicant tracking system for a minimum of five (5) business days. Position grade levels 14 / 106 and above should be posted for a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days. In order to be considered for a position, all applicants are required to complete an application in the TalentLink online applicant tracking system. Hiring Managers must confirm that the successful applicant meets the minimum requirements for the position. Prior to an offer being made, the Senior Human Resources Business Partner provides the final clearance. An applicant, who receives a conditional offer of employment, will undergo a background check which will consist of a criminal record search, education, and employment verification. Some positions may require a drug screening. The University utilizes the services of a third-party vendor to conduct the background check. A background check must be completed before the successful applicant may commence employment at the University. Additional information regarding the University’s hiring process is available on the Human Resources Website. Note: An applicant is defined as one who applies for a specific position and meets the minimum posted qualifications for that position. Expand all Collapse all Who Should Know This Policy All Columbia University Officers of Administration, Officers of the Libraries, and Non-Union Support Staff should review and understand this policy. Departmental Administrators and Human Resource managers should review and understand this policy as well as refer to the Manager Toolkit. Who Is Governed By This Policy This policy covers all Officers of Administration, Officers of the Libraries, and Non-Union Support Staff employed by Columbia University. Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Manager Toolkit: Administrative Staff Search Onboarding Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Issued Date: January 1, 1993 Latest Revision: February 2, 2017 Contact: Executive Director, Recruitment and HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor 212 851 0622 [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Category Recruitment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close