Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Smoking Policy Smoking Policy The University has adopted the following policy to assure compliance with applicable law and to promote the health and safety of its community. Expand all Collapse all Morningside Policy (And All Areas Not Specifically Named In This Policy) Areas On Morningside Campus Where Smoking is Permitted View a map of Designated Smoking Areas Areas on Morningside Campus Where Smoking is Not Permitted (And All Areas Not Specifically Named In This Policy) The University prohibits smoking and the use of electronic cigarettes (“e-cigarettes”) and all vaping devices in any indoor area, in all University vehicles, and outdoor seating or viewing areas of sports arenas and recreational areas, such as those at Baker Field. Smoking is also prohibited outdoors within 20 feet of all University buildings (including undergraduate housing). Without in any way limiting the general rule, the University prohibits smoking and the use of e-cigarettes and all vaping devices in the following areas at the University: auditoriums, classrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, laboratories and storage areas, employee or student lounges, theaters, clubhouses, elevators, hallways, stairwells, restrooms, undergraduate apartment buildings or residence halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, employee or student medical facilities, rooms or areas containing photocopying or other equipment used by employees or students in common, food markets or other retail stores, restaurants, cafeterias and dining facilities (including the Faculty House), and bars or other places in which alcoholic or other beverages are served. Notwithstanding the above descriptions of locations where smoking is prohibited, the University prohibits smoking and the use of e-cigarettes and all vaping devices in any area with signage indicating that smoking is prohibited. Medical Center Employees at the Medical Center Campus are required to obey campus-specific smoking policies along with New York Presbyterian Hospital applicable to hospital premises. Violations of the hospital's policies by University employees will be considered violations of this policy. Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Nevis Laboratories This policy will also be applied to the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Nevis Laboratories unless local laws in those two locations were to require more restrictive practices. Manhattanville Smoking is prohibited on campus and in any indoor area, in all University vehicles, outdoor seating or viewing and open space areas, such as those at the Large Square and the Small Square on the Columbia Manhattanville campus. Smoking is also prohibited on University property outdoors of all University buildings. Furthermore, smoking is prohibited on public sidewalks by and within 25 feet of any building entrance area, operable window and outdoor air intake area. Columbia Residents Any form of smoking, including the use of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, hookahs, e-cigarettes or vaporizers, is prohibited in Columbia Residential areas (University off-campus apartment buildings). Addressing Questions, Problems or Complaints at the Departmental Level Enforcement of the policy is the responsibility of all members of the Columbia community. Each department, School, and building manager shares the responsibility for publicizing and enforcing the policy. Questions, problems or complaints concerning smoking and this policy should, as much as possible, be resolved by the appropriate Dean, Vice President, building manager, director or department chairperson (or their delegate). Any employee having a question or problem of this nature should present it to his/her immediate supervisor. If the problem is not resolved at that level, the employee should present the matter to the department head, who will resolve the dispute in a manner consistent with this policy. These individuals or their delegates will have the responsibility in the first instance of enforcing the policy in areas under their control. No Retaliation University policy prohibits employer retaliation against employees, or applicants for employment, who exercise, or attempt to exercise, any rights under this policy. Any complaints or grievances claiming retaliation may be addressed through the appropriate existing grievance procedures or the Ombuds office may be consulted. Overall Responsibility for Following Up on Violations Human Resources will assist with issues relating to employee and labor relations and with disciplinary action resulting from violations of the policy. Student violations will be the responsibility of the respective School or College. [See: Reporting Violations below.] Reporting Violations Students Witnessed violations of University policy may be reported to the building manager in or near which the violation takes place or the Dean's office for the school in which the student is enrolled. Any student who violates University policy will be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with University policy. Officers of Administration and Support Staff: Witnessed violations of University policy may be reported to the employee's manager, departmental administrator, building manager, or local human resources officer. The individual's manager, departmental administrator, building manager, or local human resources officer will be responsible for counseling the employee, in writing, about the requirement that the employee comply with University policy (see attached sample counseling letter). Any employee who thereafter violates University policy will be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with University policy and/or the applicable collective bargaining agreements (see sample letter to attend an investigatory meeting). Officers of Instruction, Research or Libraries: Violations of University policy may be reported to the appropriate Dean, building manager, or to the University Librarian, or Vice President. The Dean, University Librarian, or building manager will be responsible for investigating the matter and counseling the employee, in writing, about the requirement that the employee comply with University policy. Any employee who thereafter violates University policy will be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the Faculty disciplinary procedures. Related Violation Letters Cessation Support According to reports issued by the Surgeon General, smoking presents risks of certain cancers, coronary artery disease, emphysema, gastric ulcers, stroke, and fetal injury. In general, smokers die from a variety of ailments at a rate twice as high as nonsmokers. For Employees Smoking cessation programs for employees are supported by Columbia through health insurance benefits and the Employee Assistance Program. Residents of New York City may also contact 311 to access community-based tobacco cessation programs. Because quitting smoking decreases most risks to health, and because most people who smoke would quit if they could, Columbia urges its employees to take advantage of all available programs. For Students Smoking cessation programs for students are offered by Columbia Health (https://health.columbia.edu/services/tobacco-cessation) on the Morningside campus. Residents of New York City may also contact 311 to access community-based tobacco cessation programs. Because quitting smoking decreases most risks to health, and because most people who smoke would quit if they could, Columbia urges its students to take advantage of all available programs. Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Map of Smoking Areas on Morningside Campus Smoking Policy Violation Letter Effective Date: October, 2005 Latest Revision: April, 2022 Contact: HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Faculty Researchers Support Staff (Union) Support Staff (Non-Union) Category Employment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close