Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Mail and Personal Safety Mail and Personal Safety Columbia University is committed to ensuring the safety of all members of the University community and maintaining the safety and security of our mail services. While no large organization is immune from safety concerns, clear policies and procedures help reduce the likelihood of safety concerns and guide appropriate situations that may arise. Expand all Collapse all Reason for the Policy The purpose of this policy is to reiterate expectations for University employees regarding the use of Columbia University Mail Services and to set forth procedures to follow in response to suspicious mail. Who is Governed by This Policy This policy applies to all employees of the University including faculty, all staff, temporary employees, and student employees (with respect to conduct that pertains to their employment status). In addition, the policy applies to individuals whom the University contracts to do work on its behalf, including consultants, vendors, contractors, and sub-contractors. This policy covers activity at a ll University-owned properties, facilities, and off-campus locations where University business is conducted through Columbia University Mail Services. Who Should Know This Policy All Columbia University employees and all University consultants, vendors, contractors, and sub-contractors who utilize Columbia University Mail Services should review and understand this policy. Exclusions and Special Situations None. Policy Text Columbia University Mail Services provides the University community with mail services for sending, receiving, and processing domestic, international, and interoffice mail. University employees are expected to use our mail services for legitimate business and educational purposes. While we understand that our employees may need to use our mail services from time to time for personal matters at their personal expense, certain uses of Columbia University Mail Services are prohibited. Our mail services must never be used by any employee or any University consultant, vendor, contractor, or subcontractor in violation of our Workplace Violence polity, our University Policy on Possession of Firearms on Campus or any other applicable University policy. The safety of our community is critically important. If a student or employee receives a suspicious package or envelope through Columbia University Mail Services, the mail item should not be opened and the Department of Public Safety must be notified immediately. Some signs of suspicious mail include: evidence of powder or unusual substances; odd odor; protruding wires; lopsided or uneven appearance; excessive postage or tape; and unexpected markings, such as "do Not X-Ray." To learn more about mail security and suspicious mail, please visit http://about.usps.com/securing-the-mail/mail-security-center.htm. All members of the Columbia community should report suspicious mail items and other safety concerns regarding mail services to the Department of Public Safety: Morningside: On campus - 4-5555 Off campus - 212-854-5555 Medical Center: On campus - 5-7979 Off campus - 212-305-7979 If there is an immediate risk, call 911. Effective: December 2013 Contact: HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Faculty Officers of Administration Researchers Support Staff (Union) Support Staff (Non-Union) Students Category Employment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close