Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Additional Compensation Additional Compensation Officers of the University are expected to work the time required to accomplish the responsibilities of their primary position without additional compensation. However, there are situations where it may be appropriate and desirable to compensate individuals for work other than that performed in their primary position. Senior level employees (grade 15 and above) are expected to provide such services without additional compensation. Officers in grade 14 and below may receive additional compensation if the following condition is met: work, including that which is instructional or presentational in nature, must be other than that defined by the individual's primary responsibilities and must be such that, were the individual not willing to do it, a new temporary or part-time employee would need to be hired for the task. Services must be performed other than during the employee's normal business hours. In addition to the above, the following will apply: Additional Compensation for Instructional Services: The course of program must be needed (i.e., a student population for it must have been identified by the appropriate school or faculty) and the course must fit in with the curriculum of that unit. No regular member of the faculty of the University is available to teach the course or program (i.e., no regular member of the faculty is both able and willing to teach it). Officers who wish to teach and who are invited to do so must receive the permission of their immediate supervisors and the heads of their departments, who may refuse permission if the teaching interferes with their full-time duties. The Vice President of Information Services and University Librarian must authorize all teaching appointments offered to officers of the libraries. The Vice President for Human Resources must authorize the appointments of officers of administration. For courses offered on the Morningside campus, the Vice Provost for Academic Administration will give final approval to all instructional appointments for non-instructional officers, as he/she already does for other part-time appointments. For courses offered at the Medical Center, the Office of Faculty Affairs exercises that responsibility. Departments and schools should be sure to receive all necessary approvals before making a commitment to pay a full-time non-instructional officer. Issue Date: January 1, 1993 Revision Date: July 1, 2004 Contact: Compensation Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] https://humanresources.columbia.edu/ Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Category Compensation Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close