Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives The Graduate Initiative The Graduate Initiative The Graduate Initiative Learn, Engage and Connect The Graduate Initiative for Inclusion and Engagement is part of Columbia’s commitment to diversity and the success of all graduate and professional school students. Check our Events Calendar to see upcoming events, where you'll be able to connect and collaborate with graduate students from all Columbia schools and participate in innovative programs and supportive spaces. key icon Success Workshops These workshops support graduate students’ transition to the Columbia community. If you’re curious how to approach a conversation with a faculty member or wondering how to build a network among your fellow students, this is a series for you! lightbulb icon Share Your Ideas We want you to be a part of this exciting community! To share your ideas, learn more about our workshops and events, just sign up. We'll be in touch. google icon Interschool Governing Board and Student Organization Advising The Office of University Life advises the Interschool Governing Board and student organizations recognized by the board. We also provide resources and training for graduate student organizations, including mini grants, best practices for event planning, and leadership development workshops. For more information, contact Nina Khampha, Assistant Director of Student Life, at [email protected]. weixin icon Grad Hangouts Make connections across schools through informal social gatherings. Events are held at both the Morningside and CUIMC campuses. video-camera icon Check Out Past Events Missed an event or want to see what types of events we hold? Our video library has you covered! University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close