Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home University Life Messages Following the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas 2021-22 Academic Year Following the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas May 24, 2022 Dear Columbia Community Members, We write to you with heavy hearts regarding yet another mass shooting in our nation. As you likely know by now, today a gunman murdered eighteen children and a teacher at an elementary school in Uvalde, Texas in a predominantly Mexican-American community. This is a devastating act of violence, and we grieve for the families of the victims and the entire community of Uvalde. As a community, we frequently speak out against acts of violence that are an affront to our core values, which recognize the fundamental dignity and worth of every person. We stand together as a community to support one another in this moment of tragedy. Finally, we want to acknowledge that in the face of such news, it is normal to experience a wide range of emotions. Please know that Columbia has resources to support you, should you need them. Resources for Students Please reach out to your Deans of Students as a first resource for support when you need it. Additionally, other campus resources remain available, including: Mental health support for students through Counseling and Psychological Services (Morningside and Manhattanville) or Student Health on Haven (CUIMC). Religious Life for spiritual advising. Resources for Employees The University offers resources through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which can help support any Columbia employee. The EAP also offers a 24-hour hotline for personal, confidential counseling and referrals to professional services at 888-673-1153 (TTY: 711). Please take care of yourselves and each other. Sincerely, Mary C. Boyce (she/her) Provost Professor of Mechanical Engineering Dennis A. Mitchell (he/him/his) Executive Vice President for University Life Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Advancement Professor of Dental Medicine at CUMC News May 25, 2022 Summer Digest: Mental Health Awareness Month, Accessing Campus Resources Over the Summer May 24, 2022 Following the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas May 17, 2022 Bridging Two Worlds: One Student's Story of Finding His Passion for Diplomacy May 16, 2022 2022 Commencement Activities and Reminders May 15, 2022 In the wake of the attack in Buffalo, New York University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close