Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home About University Life About University Life About University Life University Life is about YOU. Whether you want to learn more about all that Columbia has to offer outside of the classroom, you’re looking for more information about University resources, or you want to meet students, make friends and build a network of Columbians outside of your school, we’re your one-stop shop to get connected with the Columbia community, whatever that may mean for you. At University Life, we partner with student leaders, student affairs offices and central student services at the University to maximize your experience at Columbia. Being a part of the diverse Columbia community, with more than 50,000 students, faculty and staff, gives you access to incredible resources you can benefit from far beyond your time as a student. It is our honor and privilege to help make your time at Columbia as wonderful as possible. What does University Life have to offer? University-wide events and discussions to meet new friends, practice well-being, learn new skills, and join engaging conversations. Columbia resources available to you during your Columbia journey. The opportunity for you to get involved and enhance your Columbia experience! Plan events for your classmates and gain experience by getting involved in the University Life Events Council Become a University Life Student Ambassador. There are a variety of programs you can get involved with based on your interest! Help shape culture at Columbia through a variety of workshops, task forces and collaborative groups with students, faculty and administrators from across the University, with focuses on community citizenship, inclusion and belonging, sexual respect, and more. Have ideas, thoughts or questions? Reach out to us by email at [email protected]. Interested in meeting one-on-one? Check out our office hours! Joseph Greenwell, Vice President for Student Affairs: Email for availability. Ixchel Rosal, Associate Vice President for Student Life: Email for availability. Get to know the University Life team! Dr. Dennis Mitchell (he/him) Executive Vice President Take a moment to learn more about our new Executive Vice President, Dr. Dennis Mitchell. Hear more about what he's focused on and excited about as he begins his new role at University Life! Joseph Defraine Greenwell (he/him) Vice President for Student Affairs Take a moment to learn more about Joseph Greenwell, who is the Vice President for Student Affairs. Hear about why his college experience makes his work today so important, and the one thing he thinks you should know about University Life. Ixchel Rosal (she/her) Associate Vice President for Student Life Take a moment to learn more about Ixchel Rosal. She is the Associate Vice President for Student Life, and oversees student activities and diversity, equity, and inclusion programs for University Life. Hear from Ixchel on why she believes building community at Columbia is so important and why it’s important for us to hear from you! Nina Khampha (she/her) Assistant Director of Student Life Take a moment to learn more about Nina Khampha. She is the Assistant Director of Student Life. Learn about Nina's many roles working with the student programming board, planning fun events throughout the year, and supporting the Wellness initiative, as well as the different ways in which Nina wants to help students reach their potential and become leaders. Gabriela Dominguez (she/her) Program Coordinator for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives Take a moment to learn more about Gabriela Dominguez. She is the Program Coordinator for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Initiatives. Hear from Gaby talk about how her why her experience as a first-generation student makes her work so important and how it led her to work in higher education and give back to students. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close