Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Student Resources Support related to discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct Support related to discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded on the fundamental dignity and worth of all of its members. Included in this is our commitment to fostering an environment free from sexual harassment and assault, and all other forms of gender-based misconduct. Here's where you can go to ask questions or get help: In an emergency, dial 9-1-1 or call Columbia Public Safety (212-854-5555). Public Safety also provides assistance with law enforcement. Report an incident online, here. Reports are routed promptly to the relevant office. Anyone can report discrimination or harassment using the "Report an Incident" button in the upper right corner of the University Life website. Speak directly with someone in an office that handles your question or concern: Learn more about Columbia's resources For gender-based misconduct questions or incidents The Gender-Based Misconduct Office within Student Conduct and Community Standards has case managers who can speak with any student about gender-based misconduct questions or incidents. This office also investigates reports of policy violations by students and is available to help all students with support and accommodations. Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) investigates reports of policy violations by faculty, staff, vendors and others and can also assist with support and accommodations in these cases. Columbia’s Title IX Coordinator also can receive reports about incidents and is another resource for general questions. For other discrimination and harassment questions or incidents Your school’s student affairs staff can address questions or assist with incident reports involving students, faculty, staff or anyone else on campus who may have engaged in discrimination or harassment. Find your school Student Conduct and Community Standards investigates reports of policy violations by students. EOAA investigates reports of policy violations by faculty, staff or others on campus. What are Columbia's policies? Non-Discrimination Policy The University's Non-Discrimination Policy governs the conduct of all Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that occurs on the University’s campuses or in connection with University-sponsored programs. This policy also governs conduct by Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that creates, contributes to, or continues a hostile work, educational, or living environment for a member or members of the University community. Visit http://eoaa.columbia.edu/columbia-university-non-discrimination-statement-and-policy to read more. Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedures for Students The Gender-Based Misconduct Policy for Students is one part of the University’s multifaceted approach to eliminate gender-based misconduct from our community, which also includes educational programs; services and resources for those affected by gender-based misconduct; accessible, prompt, and fair methods of investigation and resolution of reports of misconduct; and protections designed to prevent against recurrence. For more information on the Policy, and resources and support, visit sexualrespect.columbia.edu. Employee Policy and Procedures on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence and Stalking This Policy is part of the University’s commitment to ensure a safe and nondiscriminatory employment and educational environment. It specifies prohibited conduct, sets out duties and obligations of University employees and other members of the University community and includes reporting options and available resources. It also details the investigation and disciplinary process for employees accused of misconduct and defines key terms and a list of applicable discrimination laws and contacts. For more information, visit http://eoaa.columbia.edu/eoaa-policies-and-procedures Consensual Relationships Policies Columbia has policies that govern consensual relationships between faculty and students, staff members and students, and between staff members. For more information, please see https://eoaa.columbia.edu/eoaa-policies-and-procedures/consensual-romantic-and-sexual-relationship. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close