Skip to main content Visit Apply Donate TUPortal Search University College University College Academics Bachelor of General Studies Science and Mathematics Scholars Program Adult Learners ProRanger Program Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy Sustainability Education First Year Experience at Temple Ambler Professional Development Act 48 Programs for Educators Business of Architecture Corporate Training Leadership and Management Meeting Planning Network of Evaluation Services and Training (NEST) Professional Communications Project Management Real Estate Institute Tyler School of Art Professional Development Enrichment Arboretum Programs Music Prep Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Pan-African Studies Community Education Program Senior Scholars Tyler School of Art Adult Programs Youth & Pre-College Institute of Reading Development Temple Summer Academy Pre-College Programs Summer Camps Tyler School of Art Teen/Pre-College Programs About News Office of Digital Education University College Course Grant UC-IDEA Committee ≡ Menu Academics Bachelor of General Studies Science and Mathematics Scholars Program Adult Learners ProRanger Program Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy Sustainability Education First Year Experience at Temple Ambler Professional Development Act 48 Programs for Educators Business of Architecture Corporate Training Leadership and Management Meeting Planning Network of Evaluation Services and Training (NEST) Professional Communications Project Management Real Estate Institute Tyler School of Art Professional Development Enrichment Arboretum Programs Music Prep Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Pan-African Studies Community Education Program Senior Scholars Tyler School of Art Adult Programs Youth & Pre-College Institute of Reading Development Temple Summer Academy Pre-College Programs Summer Camps Tyler School of Art Teen/Pre-College Programs About News Office of Digital Education University College Course Grant UC-IDEA Committee Home > Professional Development > Real Estate Institute Real Estate Institute Located in the heart of Center City, the Real Estate Institute (REI) at Temple University is the largest program for professional real estate education in the tri-state region. REI's faculty members are experts in the real estate industry, and they are eager to share their extensive professional knowledge. Not only do they understand current trends and what’s happening in the marketplace, they are skilled instructors who know how to convey information and generate lively discussion. With more than 30 years of real estate experience, the Real Estate Institute at Temple University is a proven resource that is continually creating new initiatives to meet your educational needs. Online courses will be held as either self-paced online courses, or as virtual instructor-led online courses using Zoom. Registration is now open for our Salesperson and Broker Courses (In-Person & Online)! Enroll in our available In-Person and Virtual Instructor-Led Courses here. Enroll in our available Self-Paced Courses here. To view our Spring 2022 Online Digital Catalog, click the image below. Steps to obtain your Real Estate Salesperson License. Questions? Book a call with us. Want to book a call with us to get all of your Real Estate Institute questions answered? Schedule a call with us through Microsoft Bookings. Need to request a transcript? Contact the Real Estate Institute at 215-204-1539 or realestateinstitute@temple.edu. Real Estate Institute Act 48 Programs for Educators Business of Architecture Corporate Training Leadership and Management Meeting Planning Network of Evaluation Services and Training (NEST) Professional Communications Project Management Real Estate Institute Get your Real Estate License Continue your Real Estate Education Get your Real Estate Broker License Contact the Real Estate Institute Tyler School of Art Professional Development TEMPLE UNIVERSITY University College 1805 North Broad St. Carnell Hall Philadelphia, PA 19122 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Quick Links: TUPortal TUMail Accessibility Policies Careers At Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved. Designed and developed by Web Communications.