Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives Community Citizenship Initiative Community Citizenship Initiative Welcome to the Community Citizenship Initiative! As Columbians, we are members of a uniquely diverse community. We are guided by a commitment to building a University environment where everyone can thrive and reach their full potential. The Community Citizenship Initiative is the bedrock of that commitment. It is an opportunity for you to understand your part in upholding our core values of sexual respect and inclusion & belonging. This initiative will help you understand how your choices impact others. So step up and step into your part of this University-wide commitment to communicating and acting with integrity and respect for others, both here at Columbia and beyond. About the Community Citizenship Initiative Columbia launched the Community Citizenship Initiative as a collaboration among students, faculty, and administrators to create a stronger, safer, and better-connected campus community. With these goals in mind, University Life has designed a set of tools and resources for you to learn not only how you can take part in this process, but to feel empowered to create positive change within our community. These learning materials are broken down into two components: the Sexual Respect Initiative and the Inclusion and Belonging Initiative. users icon Sexual Respect Initiative The Sexual Respect Initiative (SRI) explores the critical connection between sexual respect and membership in the University community. This initiative asks each of us to help build and promote a campus culture that unequivocally rejects sexual harassment, sexual assault and other forms of gender-based misconduct. It is also designed to help you to feel empowered in seeking help whenever and wherever needed. Sexual Respect Initiative and FAQ balance-scale icon Inclusion and Belonging Initiative The Inclusion and Belonging Initiative focuses on meaningful conversations on topics like the impact of bias, defining unequivocal inclusion, and resiliency in the face of bias. Participating in these conversations allows you to think about your individual role in cultivating inclusivity at Columbia, provides problem-solving skills for our diverse world and enhances your skills for communicating across differences. Inclusion and Belonging Initiative and FAQ University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close