Skip to main content Division of Academic and Student Affairs University College Menu Close About Us Who We Are Diversity in UC Contact Us Dean’s Corner UC Steering Committees Fast Facts Org Chart Academics Departments and Programs UC Minors and Certificates Student Resources Find Advising and Support Pursue Undergraduate Research Participate in the Honors and Scholars Program Join an Ensemble or a Team Find a Fellowship Join a Living and Learning Village For Faculty and Staff UC Courses & Curricula Committee UC Staff and Faculty Professional Development Curricular Resources Partnerships Engagement Opportunities in UC Give Now About Us About Us Who We Are Diversity in UC Contact Us Dean’s Corner UC Steering Committees Fast Facts Org Chart Academics Academics Departments and Programs UC Minors and Certificates Student Resources Student Resources Find Advising and Support Pursue Undergraduate Research Participate in the Honors and Scholars Program Join an Ensemble or a Team Find a Fellowship Join a Living and Learning Village For Faculty and Staff For Faculty and Staff UC Courses & Curricula Committee UC Staff and Faculty Professional Development Curricular Resources Partnerships Engagement Opportunities in UC Give Now Welcome! University College is home to programs that can enrich your experience at NC State. From honors and scholars to undergraduate research and fellowships, we serve the entire university by providing outlets for students to express their Think and Do mentality. LATEST NEWS READ MORE University Honors and Scholars Program Announces Unification, Name Change NC State’s highest-achieving students will now be housed in a single program. ASPSA Student Employee Feature: Spring 2022 The Academic Support Program for Student-Athletes (ASPSA) profiles two of its outstanding student employees, Ally Gloekler and Sean Douglas, for their work this spring. Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Returns for Third Year with Focus on The Future of Food This year’s iteration of Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions will surround the Future of Food — specifically, the complex and interwoven problems which contribute to a worldwide issue. Many members of […] University Fellowships Office Announces Critical Language Scholarship Winners Three NC State students have been awarded scholarships that will allow them to immerse themselves in the culture and language of another country. Spotlight on Our Students: Sommer Stephens The University Honors and Scholars Program (UHSP) interviews Sommer Stephens, a senior from Walkertown, N.C. majoring in animal sciences. Read on to learn more about some of the HON seminars […] ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. Thank you, Class of 2021 A video message from Bret Smith, senior associate dean of University College. View Video on YouTube University College Home Park Shops 101 Current Drive Raleigh, NC 27695-7301 university-college@ncsu.edu 919.515.2446 Google Directions to Park Shops Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Website Feedback © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.