Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Get Involved Student Voices Student Voices Student Voices Everyone's Columbia story is unique, which is why we are excited to share them! Keep an eye on this page for student blogs, vlogs, photo essays and more. Blogs Stories about students, by students. Bridging Two Worlds: One Student's Story of Finding His Passion for Diplomacy William Yuen Yee, CC '22, found an unexpected passion for foreign policy. At commencement he reflects back on his experiences at Columbia. How a Racial Justice Mini Grant Recipient Started Critical Conversations About Colorism Tigidankay (TK) Saccoh (she/her) is a 22-year-old anti-colorism advocate, public speaker, content creator, and fourth-year student studying Psychology and Public Health at Columbia College who created the Darkest Hue. She regularly curates original, thought-provoking content and publishes heartfelt testimonials from young Black women and girls about their unique experiences with colorism. One 2022 Graduate's Story of Her Time at Columbia and Beyond Chinmayi Balusu (she/her) is graduating this Spring from Columbia College. Her time at Columbia has deepened her passion for neuroscience's intersections with other academic disciplines like public health, and her desire to focus on patient-centered clinical research. Along the way, she's launched a non-profit focused on supporting early neuroscience education, outreach and awareness. Between Two Worlds In honor of Women's History Month, Sara Rashidi '23MPH shares her story of her family's move to California from Iran and how the women in her family motivated her to follow her dreams. How Curiosity and a Strong Grandmother Brought an Engineer to Columbia Krisna grew up with her father, an engineer, teaching her how to fix things around the house when they needed repair. But it was Krisna’s grandmother, Premila, who she says overcame many challenges throughout her life that would provide Krisna the opportunity to attend Columbia and become an engineer. Joining the Family Business An interview with University Life Executive Vice President Dennis Mitchell on his journey from a junior hockey champion in Toronto to championing inclusion and belonging at Columbia. The Columbia Experience Through the Eyes of First-Gen Students Hear from first-generation students at Columbia who shared a bit about their stories, motivation, and what led them to the University. My Journey to Columbia as a Woman and a Veteran Ebonnie Goodfield (GS) explores her journey to Columbia and her passion for creating resources for women veterans. A Veterans Day Reflection: A Transition of Identity and View of Sacrifice Davey Liu (GS) reflects on his transition from the Navy to being a student at Columbia. Proud to Be Pell Jane Walsh '23CC explores what it means to be a Pell Grant recipient at Columbia. Vlogs Vlogs coming soon! Instagram Your stories on Instagram. Jessica Balistreri (GSAS) “I come from an immigrant family and I’m the first person in my family to go to college...I went into academia not only to do it for my family but to empower other women. So I can set an example for others after me...” Krisna Panchal (SEAS) “My mom has been working for minimum wage for 28 years and seeing her leave for work at 4PM on one day and coming back at 6AM the next day just so our family can stay afloat in America, drove me to make the most of the education I had the privilege of getting here. Her hard work and grit continues to motivate me today as I try to harness all the opportunities here at Columbia.” Maya Katerina Kashapov (Climate School) "I feel like I’ve had a lot of firsts in my life. My high school opened the year that I started there so I was in the first class of my high school. Now the same thing is happening at the Climate School. I’m in the first class there. I’m also the first one in my family to get any sort of college degree. So the fact that I'm doing a masters is huge for me and my family both." Keshia Pershad (SPS) “I want to make sure I’m showing people that look like me, and come from what I’ve been through, that you can do it and you can do it anywhere. Don’t sell yourself short. I didn’t think I was going to get into a Columbia grad program ever. I think future generations seeing people that look like them go through it and be a resource for them and give them some tips along the way is helpful." Olivia Cordingley (CSSW) "Be open and honest about the fact that you're a first generation student because if anything, I think it’s a very big strength to go a path that hasn't come before you. It shows a lot of hard work, and self-reliance, and resilience, and to just be proud about the fact that they are first-gen.” Nia Augustine (MPH) “I feel that for me to share my first-gen identity is to say: 'hey, I’m being vulnerable with you and I’m letting you know that I’m coming from a place that I do not know'. I am the first. I am a trailblazer. I feel that it highlights my strength, my resilience and willingness to go beyond the standard that was placed in front of me.” Expand all Collapse all Interested in creating content? Website Content Ideas Want to see your story or idea here? Submit your pitch through this Google Form! Social Media Content Ideas Want to share more about yourself or your story via social media? Submit your ideas here! University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close