Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia Inclusion and Belonging at Columbia Learn More About Columbia's Commitment to Antiracism April 2022 update on student-focused initiatives and programs Read President Bollinger's July 2020 letter Learn about school-based commitments Read the mid-year progress reports from Fall 2020 Resources for Promoting Social Justice and Combating Bias Find organizations advocating for justice across the country and resources related to different identity groups. Working Group on Inclusive Public Safety Columbia’s Working Group on Inclusive Public Safety focuses on supporting inclusive public safety on Columbia’s campuses. Read meeting notes The Graduate Initiative for Inclusion and Engagement The Graduate Initiative is part of Columbia’s commitment to diversity and the success of all graduate and professional school students. Events and workshops offer an opportunity for graduate students to collaborate with and participate in innovative programs and supportive spaces. DACA and Undocumented Students Columbia welcomes undocumented and DACA students as part of our community. Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program University Life invites students to apply for the Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program and share innovative ideas to address racism, particularly anti-Black racism. Resources for Promoting LGBTQ+ Inclusion Information and a diverse range of resources and supports for students, faculty and staff. Religious Community at Columbia Explore religion, spirituality and multi-faith opportunities. Resources Reporting Bias Our community’s tools to address bias include a reporting process and the Bias Incident Resource Team, plus resources within schools and various offices. Racial Justice Resources, gathered by members of the Columbia students, staff and faculty in partnership with Columbia Libraries. DACA Resources for support, legal assistance and more for undocumented students Graduate Students Organizations, resources, and offices that serve graduate students. Disability Services Supports students with disabilities and helps to coordinate accommodations and services. Military and Veteran Affairs For students who are members and veterans of the U.S. armed forces, including military and veteran student groups. Undergraduates Organizations, resources, and offices that serve undergraduate students. Support Related to Discrimination Learn more about Columbia's resources for discrimination, harassment or gender-based misconduct. Use Your Voice Work with other students, faculty and staff on University-wide inclusion and belonging initiatives. Whether you want to help plan or attend fun events, work with other students, faculty and staff on inclusion and belonging or be an ambassador for sexual respect and student well-being, the Office of University Life has an opportunity for you. Our Community, Our Values “Make no mistake that Columbia rejects racism, homophobia, Islamophobia, white supremacy, bigotry, misogyny. But beyond statements, can we show up as members of one community, especially when we are in a particularly challenging place?” - Ixchel Rosal, Associate Vice President for Student Life and co-chair of Columbia’s Race, Ethnicity and Inclusion Task Force. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close