Skip to Content University Senate Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Membership FAQs Contact Us Bylaws CommitteesExpand Collapse section Academic Affairs Academic Freedom Tenure and Professional Ethics Administrative Operations Agenda Appointment and Promotions Athletic Policy Budget and Fiscal Affairs Computing Services CurriculaExpand Collapse section Contacts School and College Contacts for Consultations Curriculum Deadline Courses — General Information Courses — Forms and Procedures Programs Helpful Links and Resources Race, Ethnicity, Equity, and Inclusion Honorary DegreesExpand Collapse section Call for Nominations Nomination Process Selection Criteria Honorary Degree Titles Instruction Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Asexual (LGBTQA) Justice and Advocacy Library Research Services to the Faculty and Staff Student Life Women’s Concerns Meetings Calendar Agendas and Minutes News Search Search Home Committees Curricula In this Section Curricula “The Committee on Curricula shall study the curricula of the various schools and colleges, consider all requests for curriculum and course changes, and recommend action on such changes to the Senate. This Committee may initiate suggestions to the several departments designed to improve their curricula and courses, but it shall concern itself primarily with curricular matters affecting the University as a whole. (From the BYLAWS OF THE SENATE OF SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY, ARTICLE V. STANDING COMMITTEES, Section 13, as amended during the 2011-12 session of the University Senate.) Curricula Reports (Login Required) Members Link Chancellor Kent Syverud Ex Officio Tom Barkley The Martin J. Whitman School of Management Patrick Berry The College of Arts and Sciences Kelly Bogart Senate Affairs Specialist Kelly Campbell University Registrar Steven Diaz (Co-Chair) The College of Arts and Sciences Tim Diem College of Visual and Performing Arts Carol Faulkner (Co-Chair) Dean of Maxwell School of Citizenship & Public Affairs Michael Fudge School of Information Studies Chandice Haste-Jackson The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Chris Johnson Associate Provost for Academic Programs Dawn Johnson School of Education Jackie Lewis-Frenay Syracuse Abroad Jae Oh The College of Engineering and Computer Science David Shanks School of Architecture Brian Sheehan S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Charlotte Stahrr College of Professional Studies Maureen Thompson The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Ryan O. Williams College of Professional Studies In this Section Contacts School and College Contacts for Consultations Courses — General Information Courses — Forms and Procedures Programs Helpful Links and Resources Curriculum Deadline © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy