Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home ReopenCU COVID-19 Symptom Self-check App – Red Screen Policy ReopenCU COVID-19 Symptom Self-check App – Red Screen Policy Policy Statement All Columbia affiliates (students, faculty, and staff) coming onto the campus for any purpose or who are living in residence halls or dorms, are required to complete the ReopenCU symptom self-check app every day before they enter campus premises. The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance to faculty and staff on next steps when they have obtained a red “pass” after completing the ReopenCU symptom self-check app. There are three reasons an individual may receive a red pass: The individual is missing one of the required steps for working on campus—signing the compact, completing a SARS-CoV-2 (gateway) test, or completing the COVID-19 Safety training course. An error was made in completing the daily attestation. Based on the answers to the health attestation questions. If an individual receives a red pass because they are missing one or more required steps for working on campus, they must complete the missing requirement(s) as soon as possible before returning to campus. If an individual receives a red pass due to a mistake in responding to the questions, it must be corrected immediately, and then the individual can access campus once the green pass is obtained. Expand all Collapse all Resolving a Red Pass Any employee who obtains a red pass on the ReopenCU App based on their response to the health attestation questions may not report back to work until the following actions have been completed: Faculty and Staff should contact their Supervisor/HR Departmental Contact and Leave Management ([email protected]) to inform them of their situation and to obtain further guidance. CUIMC employees must also contact the Workforce Health and Safety hotline if they have symptoms of Covid-19: 7 days a week, 6:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m., Phone: 646-697-9470. Individuals who have tested positive and have been on campus must immediately contact [email protected] to engage contact tracing and receive guidance. Individuals who are advised to quarantine or self-isolate by a contact tracer, local health department, or health care provider should send written documentation to their supervisor or HR departmental contact as they would for any other absence. They should also provide this documentation to Leave Management. In all cases, documentation should include expected return-to-work dates. If an individual has received a positive COVID-19 test, they cannot return to work until: at least 10 days have passed since the date of the first symptoms; and symptoms are improving; and they have been fever-free for at least 24 hours without use of fever-reducing medications; and Leave Management has confirmed their authorized to return to work If an individual is experiencing COVID-19 related symptoms (either without being tested for COVID-19 or without a positive COVID-19 test), a personal health care provider (HCP) should be contacted to review and determine appropriate next steps. A negative COVID-19 test result or a note from the physician must be submitted to Leave Management for clearance to return to work. If the health care provider provides an alternate diagnosis, a note signed by the health care provider explaining the diagnosis is required before the employee can return to work. Employees may return to work according to the usual guidelines for that diagnosis. A signed HCP note documenting unconfirmed acute illnesses (i.e. viral upper respiratory illness (URI) or viral gastroenteritis) will not suffice. If an individual has symptoms and does not contact a health care provider and does not obtain a COVID-19 test the employee cannot return to work until: at least 10 days have passed since the date of the first symptoms; and symptoms are improving; and they have been fever-free for at least 24 hours without use of fever-reducing medications; and Leave Management has confirmed their authorized to return to work Reminder: No faculty or staff may return to work without one of the following, a note from a health care provider, a negative COVID-19 test result, or confirmation from Leave Management. COVID-19 testing for individuals that are symptomatic cannot be done on campus at Lerner Hall (Morningside Campus) or Black Building (CUIMC Campus) locations. Please contact your HCP for locations for alternative testing sites. Testing at Lerner Hall or Black Building locations that are not part of the regular surveillance program require permission granted through [email protected]. Employees that have travelled outside of NYS, must comply with NY State guidelines (https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory). Employees refusing to comply with the steps outlined in this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Essential Personnel Employees deemed essential, as defined by their department, as well as employees providing clinical care, clinical research, or in clinical training are required to follow these guidelines unless they are returning to work after travelling to a non-contiguous state or any international destination requiring quarantine. In such cases, essential employees must comply with NY State guidelines (https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory). All documentation must be sent to the Supervisor/HR Departmental Contact and Leave Management. Sick Leave/Pay During Quarantine Use of NYS quarantine pay will be determined based on the circumstances and requires documentation (order of quarantine from their local health department or a copy of a positive COVID-19 test result). All other questions about use of emergency days/sick days/personal days should be directed to your HR Departmental Contact or Leave Management. Issue Date: November 2020 Contact: Leave Management [email protected] (212) 851-0698 Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Faculty Researchers Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Category Employment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close