Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Grievance Procedure Grievance Procedure The University recognizes its responsibility to provide procedures whereby an employee who feels aggrieved can seek redress. The grievance procedure is only available to regular full-time and part-time administrative Non-Union Support Staff and Officers of Administration. The only disciplinary actions covered by the grievance procedure are suspension and termination. A grievant must begin the grievance procedure within thirty (30) calendar days after the disciplinary action which he or she is grieving. The grievance procedure will be governed by the following conditions: 1. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the discipline, the grievant shall present a written complaint (which should include the facts surrounding the grievance and the remedy sought) to the Dean or Department Head. The Dean or Department Head is expected to render a written decision within twenty (20) calendar days after a Step 1 meeting, which should be held within thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of the grievance. 2. If there is no resolution of the grievance at Step 1, the grievant may, within ten (10) calendar days of the decision at Step 1, write to the Associate Vice President of Labor Relations and Client Services to appeal the Step 1 decision, stating the nature of the grievance and the basis for such appeal. Upon receipt of such letter, the Associate Vice President of Labor Relations and Client Services, or his/her designee, will acknowledge receipt of the letter from the grievant in writing, indicating that the grievant will be contacted as soon as practicable to schedule a Step 2 hearing. Within twenty (20) calendar days after the hearing, a written decision shall be issued. The Step 2 decision shall be final and binding on all the parties, unless within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the Step 2 decision, the grievant requests an appeal of the Step 2 decision to the Vice President and Chief HR Officer or his/her designee, on the basis of new information that was not available at the time of the Step 2 grievance. If a Step 3 appeal has been requested, the grievant will receive a written response, within twenty (20) calendar days, indicating whether the appeal request has been granted or denied. 3. If a Step 3 grievance is granted, the Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer will render a written decision based only on a review of the underlying record and the new information submitted. The Step 3 written decision shall be final and binding on all parties. The decision will be communicated in writing, to the grievant, the appropriate department Head and Employee and Labor Relations within twenty (20) calendar days. 4. If, at any step of the grievance procedure, the grievant does not receive a response within the required time limit, he/she may proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure unless said time limit has been extended by mutual consent. 5. In the event that an external procedure is commenced in court or before a government agency, the University will terminate the internal grievance procedure. 6. It is the University's policy that no employee may be retaliated against for initiating, participating or aiding in the officer grievance process. Any University employee who believes they have been subject to retaliation should contact the Office of Human Resources. Effective Date: January 1, 1993 Latest Revision: December 28, 2016 Contact: Camille Nicholson Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] humanresources.columbia.edu Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Category Employment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close