Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Inclusion and Belonging For DACA Recipients And Undocumented Students For DACA Recipients And Undocumented Students For DACA Recipients and Undocumented Students Columbia welcomes undocumented and DACA students as part of our community. The information and resources listed are for everyone in the Columbia community. If you are an undocumented or DACA student, you will find resources here for support, legal assistance and more. We welcome your comments and suggestions at [email protected]. question-circle icon What is DACA? An overview of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, what it means and who it affects. users icon Resources On Campus / At Columbia Context and contacts for Columbia students seeking support or assistance navigating resources. commenting icon University Statements Messages from the University on policy, current events and more related to DACA and immigration. clipboard icon Admissions Information for Prospective Students All individuals, regardless of their immigration status, are welcome at Columbia and encouraged to apply for admission. globe icon External Organizations and Helpful Links A collection of resources, including rights and advocacy information, for DACA and undocumented individuals. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close