Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Paid Vacation Paid Vacation Regular support staff and full-time officers accrue vacation allowance on a fiscal year basis -- from July 1 through June 30th and, with supervisory approval, may use the vacation as it is earned. However, the total allowance earned must be used by June 30 of the year following accrual. It may not accumulate nor may the employee receive pay in lieu of unused vacation except upon termination and then only for earned unused vacation days. Changes in an employee’s accrual rate take effect the fiscal year following the employee’s anniversary date. For instance, if the employee’s anniversary date is February 1, the new accrual rate goes into effect in the new fiscal year starting July 1. For example: for Officers who have reached their 20th anniversary with the University, the higher vacation accrual rate takes effect at the beginning of the fiscal year (July 1) following that anniversary date. If the anniversary date falls on July 1, the higher accrual rate is effective on that date. Vacation pay will be based upon the employee's current base salary. Employees transferring to a new department may carry a maximum of one year of vacation accrual. Expand all Collapse all Support Staff Regular support staff members accrue vacation allowance commencing with the completion of the probationary period. Vacation allowance for regular part-time support staff shall be computed on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the number of hours regularly worked per week. 1. For regular full-time non-union support staff (excluding the Medical Center): Earned Vacation Rate and Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 months but less than 15 years: Earns 2 days per completed month of service following probationary period up to 20 days 15 years but less than 20 years: Earns 2 days per completed month of service up to 22 days 20 years or more: Earns 2 days per completed month of service up to 25 days 2. For regular full-time non-union support staff of the Medical Center, including Harlem Hospital Center: Earned Vacation Rate and Length of Service and Maximum Allowance 2 months but less than 20 years: Earns 2 days per completed month of service following probationary period up to 20 days 20 years or more: Earns 2 days per completed month of service up to 25 days Officers Full-time officers accrue vacation allowance commencing with the employee's hire date. Vacation allowance shall be earned at the following rate: Earned Vacation Rate and Length of Service and Maximum Allowance Date of hire to 20 years: Earns 2 days per completed month of service up to 23 days 20 years or more: Earns 2 1/3 days per completed month of service up to 28 days Employees covered under a collective bargaining agreement will follow the vacation schedule contained in their contract. A full-time temporary officer accrues 1 day per month up to maximum of 10 days a year. Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Manager's Toolkit: Time and Attendance Policies and Union Contracts: Time Away from Work Workplace Essentials: Take Vacation and Time Off Effective Date: January 1, 1993 Latest Revision: July 1, 2004 Contact: Compensation Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] https://humanresources.columbia.edu/ Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Support Staff (Union) Faculty Researchers Category Time Away from Work Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close