Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home University Life Messages 2022 Commencement Activities and Reminders 2021-22 Academic Year 2022 Commencement Activities and Reminders May 16, 2022 Dear Students, Congratulations on completing our first in-person academic year since 2019, and to those of you participating in this week’s Commencement ceremonies! We are sharing updates and information to assist you with the big event. 2022 University Commencement Events Celebrate Columbia’s most recent graduates! For a full list of Commencement events this week, visit the Commencement website. Can’t make it in person? Join online via live stream on the Commencement website. Class of 2022: Wednesday, May 18, 10:30 AM ET Classes of 2020 and 2021: Thursday, May 19, 9:00-10:30 AM ET COVID Policies for 2022 Commencement The University has implemented health and safety policies related to COVID-19 for commencement event guests and participants. Requirements for students attending Commencement: Green Pass in the ReopenCU app Requirements for guests attending Commencement: Proof of vaccination OR A negative COVID-19 test meeting one of the following criteria: A time-stamped photo of an antigen test taken the day of the event OR Results of a PCR test taken within 48 hours of the first event attended Please note that all unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a mask during all events. Other Opportunities Take Part in a Conversation About Columbia's History. Missed Columbia Libraries' presentation about Columbia Residence Halls and Histories of Racism and Enslavement? A recorded presentation of the research findings is available from the Columbia and Slavery Project. You are invited to share your ideas and thoughts about proposals to acknowledge this history and to express your own interest in participating in research, art, or outreach activities. Survey responses are requested by May 24, 2022. Visit University Life’s website, Instagram and Facebook for more information and events, and please reach out to [email protected] with any suggestions or questions. Take care, Joseph Defraine Greenwell, Ed.D. Vice President for Student Affairs University Life Gender Pronouns: He/Him/His Ixchel Rosal Associate Vice President for Student Life University Life Gender Pronouns: She/Her/Hers News May 25, 2022 Summer Digest: Mental Health Awareness Month, Accessing Campus Resources Over the Summer May 24, 2022 Following the mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas May 17, 2022 Bridging Two Worlds: One Student's Story of Finding His Passion for Diplomacy May 16, 2022 2022 Commencement Activities and Reminders May 15, 2022 In the wake of the attack in Buffalo, New York University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close