Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Policies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About This Site Policies by Responsible Office Policies by Role All Policies Additional Policy Sources Alumni and Development Campus Services CUIMC Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Facilities and Operations Finance CUIMC Privacy Office/HIPAA Compliance Human Resources Information Technology (CUIT) Provost Public Safety Research University Life Faculty Librarians Researchers Officers of Administration Support Staff (Non-Union) Support Staff (Union) Students Visitors and Consultants University Policies You are here: Home Columbia University Background Check Policy Columbia University Background Check Policy Policy Statement Columbia University is committed to providing a safe and secure environment for our community, including students, visitors and employees, as well as safeguarding the assets and resources of the University. In support of this effort, any applicant for a University position, who receives a conditional offer of employment, will undergo a background check. Rehires with a break in service of more than six consecutive months, will also be required to undergo a background check. A background check will consist of a criminal record search (including the 50-state sex offender registry), education, and employment verifications. Some applicants will also be required to undergo drug testing, motor vehicle, fingerprinting, or an unscored credit check depending on the nature of the position. Applicants for such positions will be notified of this requirement when an offer of employment is made. The background check will be completed and the selected finalist must be cleared by CUHR or CUMC-HR before commencing employment at the University. Applicants are not permitted to begin working until the background check clearance is issued, unless an exception is approved in advance by the VP of Human Resources or his or her designee. Any information that is falsely reported or omitted by an applicant or an employee, may be cause for withdrawal of an offer of employment, promotion or transfer and/or constitute cause for termination of employment and disqualification of future hire. Employees covered by this policy are required to report to CUHR or CUMC-HR any criminal convictions that take place during the course of their employment, excluding infractions punishable only by a fine. Failure to promptly report such convictions may lead to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Current employees whose position changes as a result of a transfer, promotion, or reclassification may be required to undergo a background check, including if one was not conducted when initially hired or if a new background check is needed because of the nature of the position. Expand all Collapse all Who Is Governed by This Policy This policy applies to officers of administration (including variable hours officers), union and non-union support staff, and casual employees. In addition, employees identified as being part of the Protection of Minors at Columbia will be background checked every two (2) years. Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) Guidelines for Background Checks for Administrative Employees in NYP Space NYP Joint Commission Mandates: In order to provide a safe environment for patients and compliance with the accreditation requirements of the Joint Commission, NYP mandates that background checks must be conducted for all staff, students and visitors who have direct patient contact in NYP space. Additional Requirements for employees, visitors, students (including CU, Barnard and TC students) who are located in space that falls under NYP Joint Commission mandates: Pre-employment physical (through Workforce Health & Safety) Drug screening. Officers will receive a drug screening under the medical surveillance protocol. All support staff are checked at time of hire. License verification (if applicable) Departmental orientation (may not apply to visitors or students) Cross References to Related Policies and/or Content Background Check Policy Guidelines Issue Date: January 1, 1993 Revision Date: February 2, 2017 Contact: HR Compliance Columbia University Human Resources Studebaker, 615 West 131 Street, 4th Floor [email protected] Responsible University Office Human Resources Audience Officers of Administration Support Staff (Union) Support Staff (Non-Union) Faculty Category Recruitment Columbia University116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close