Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives Well-Being at Columbia Well-Being at Columbia Well-Being at Columbia As a member of the Columbia community, your well-being outside of the classroom is just as important as your academic success. Here are campus resources, programs and practical strategies for well-being to help you achieve a balance and adjust to your life as a Columbia student. You can also contribute your ideas and energy to our University-wide focus on mental health, well-being and community on campus through initiatives like Wellness Days @ Columbia and the Student Well-Being Survey! Well-Being Resources Get health, wellness and well-being resources including guides, videos articles and more. Wellness Days Events and workshops focused on supporting mental health and well-being. Well-Being Survey The goal is to enhance student life and the experience of every student. Well-Being Videos Listening to Your Anxiety with Dr. Anne Marie Albano March 8, 2022 - In this keynote talk, Dr. Anne Marie Albano, Professor of Medical Psychology (in Psychiatry) at Columbia, focused on helping build resiliency, and provided actionable tools to transform anxiety into guidance and meaning. This event was in partnership with The School of International and Public Affairs. University Life Forum: Spring Vaccine Booster Updates February 2, 2022 - This Forum covered important updates about the University's COVID-19 safety measures and vaccine boosters. Hocus Focus: Time Management Workshop October 14, 2021 - This workshop, hosted by University Life and Alice! Health Promotion, helped participants to learn a variety of tactics for time management and focus as part of the Wellness Days initiative. More Video Online Guides and Articles Wellness Guides and Tips Get information and tips on various wellness-related topics like nutrition, time management, sleep habits, relationships and more from Columbia University Irving Medical Center's Center for Student Wellness. Mindfulness, Meditation and Mood Get tips from the Center for Student Wellness on how to use meditation and mindfulness to reduce stress, anxiety and depression, and more. See also: Harvard Health Publications’ database on mental health and ways to keep your mind and mood in optimal condition here. Emotional Health Q&A from Go Ask Alice! See an archive of previously asked questions on the topic of emotional health, answered by the team of specialists and professionals at Go Ask Alice! New York Times Health Guide Browse a library of over 3,000 mental and other health topics as described, illustrated and investigated by the New York Times, including in-depth articles on anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, alcohol reliance and more. Campus Resources Counseling Services - Morningside For trauma support and short-term counseling, referral for ongoing mental health services and student support groups. Lerner Hall, 8th Floor Broadway/115th 212-854-2878 Counseling Services - Barnard For trauma support and short-term counseling, referral for ongoing mental health services and student support groups. 100 Hewitt Hall, 1st Floor Broadway/116th 212-854-2092 Counseling Services - CUIMC For trauma support and short-term counseling, referral for ongoing mental health services and student support groups. Haven Tower 1, Suite 1D 60 Haven Ave./169th & 170th 212-305-3400 50 Haven Athletic Center With a pool, cardio equipment, a squash court, yoga and aerobics classes, lockers, showers and towel rental. 50 Haven, Level 3B 50 Haven Ave./169th & 170th St. 212-305-7010 Office of the University Chaplain Faith-based support and identity-based counseling, on-campus worship, and other programs; confidential counseling on a walk-in basis or by appointment. 710 Lerner Hall Broadway/115th 212-854-1493 Office of Multicultural Affairs Provides and supports mentoring, advocacy, programming and education for intercultural communication, constructive interaction and mutual understanding. 510 Lerner Hall Broadway/115th 212-854-0702 Alice! Health Promotion Alice! Health Promotion connects students with information and resources on a broad range of health-related topics. John Jay Hall, 3rd Floor 114th/Amsterdam Ave. 212-854-5453 | Email Center for Student Wellness (CUIMC) Free and confidential wellness appointments to help students find a solution-based approach to personal, academic and professional concerns. 50 Haven, Suite 107 and Room 101 50 Haven Ave./169th & 170th St. 212-305-3400 Dodge Fitness Center Offering a variety of fitness classes, an indoor running track, 25-yard pool, a multipurpose gym, cardiovascular and strength training equipment, showers, towel rentals and a sauna. 3030 Broadway Broadway/118th 212-854-7149 Other Tools Columbia Health and CUIMC Student Health Service offer external resources that are not diagnostic but are meant to be educational and to help you better understand behavior. Columbia does not endorse or accept responsibility for external websites. Self-assessments from CUIMC Student Health Service Take self-screening/online questionnaires about depression, anxiety, trauma, substance abuse, eating disorders and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder. These do not substitute assessments with a mental health professional. Headspace App Described as, “a gym membership for the mind,” Headspace provides meditation techniques and exercises for a healthier and happier mind. Sleep Assessment and Resources Take an online sleep assessment to get real-time personalized feedback, start your own sleep diary, access sleep tips and resources, and send personalized sleep e-cards. From Alice! Health Promotion. Alcohol Self-Assessment Complete a quick online questionnaire and optionally participate in the Brief Alcohol Screening & Intervention of College Students (BASICS) one-on-one sessions, free and open to all Columbia University students. Marijuana Self-Assessment Complete a quick online self-assessment and get personalized feedback with the option to connect to campus health promotion professionals if you want to learn more. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close