retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Texas Union Hours WCP (formerly SAC) Hours Events Calendar Employment Search Search Texas Union Texas Union 360° Virtual Tour William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center WCP Student Activity Center 360° Virtual Tour History & Sustainability Through Our Eyes Hogg Auditorium Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours Events + Entertainment About Us Committees Services Your Event Advertising - DigiKnow Pricing & Policies Locations & Reservations Food & Catering About Us Board of Directors Employment Support Our Students University Unions 360° Virtual Tours Home Welcome to University Unions The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. The Texas Union Visit The Union William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center Visit the WCP Events + Entertainment Visit E+E Hogg Memorial Auditorium Visit Hogg Upcoming Events No events at this time. View all Events Learn about University Unions Tweets from @utunions UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 days 18 hours ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Congratulations to the graduating class of 2022! #UTGrad22 🤘🎓🎉 https://t.co/fjK9poGV0e 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Lightning and strong winds are rapidly approaching the Austin area from the West. Please use caution as you depart Campus. 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted Emmanuel Acho EmmanuelAcho The calm before the storm. It’s the honor of my life to honor @UTAustin’s graduating class as tonight’s commencemen… https://t.co/Li7idDo590 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Housing UTHousing And that’s a wrap 🤘 Thanks for letting us join y’all on your Forty Acres journeys. Keep those horns up and enjoy yo… https://t.co/QeWJUx946M 1 week 5 days ago View all UT Unions tweets The Texas Union Location: Campus Mail: UNB, F4200 2308 Whitis Avenue Texas Union Building Austin, Texas 78712 Address: P.O. Box 7338 Austin, Texas 78713-7338 Phone: 512-475-6636 Fax: 512-475-6599 Website: https://universityunions.utexas.edu The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram SnapchatSee us on Snapchat TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Events Calendar Tower Tours Employment Cactus Café UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022