Skip to content Donate About Seminars Guidelines FAQs Special Events Submittable Contact Us Donate About Seminars Guidelines FAQs Special Events Submittable Contact Us Donate These are the places to make mistakes and to take intellectual risks. Robert L. Belknap Every Seminar evening produces a renewal of intellectual curiosity and energy and a surge in the power of thinking. Lisa Keller The University Seminar is an independent universe. Its boundaries are limited only by its horizons. Frank Tannenbaum I have always been a great admirer of this institution, which to me looks like an authentic republic of letters… Hannah Arendt The strength of its structure lies in the very multiplicity of its forms; each a small living world in itself... Margaret Mead ...Seminars provide a haven for the expression of the partly-baked idea: 'a speculation, a question of some novelty… Robert K. Merton We have to some extent learned each other's language... to talk together more profitably. Horace L. Friess These seminars let participants combine what they worry about as members of the academy, with what they worry about when they read the morning paper. Sidney Morgenbesser The Seminars are one of the few places on campus where faculty, from different disciplines, across the NYC area, can come together for open, honest, and sustained dialogue... Paige West ...Seminars provide a brilliant system for faculty and graduate students of the greater New York area to discuss topics that fall outside the traditional confines of departments. Herbert Terrace Because the idea is still alive…it is still a movement. Because it has assumed a shape, it is a community of scholars. Joseph Maier Since their inception in 1944, the Seminars have provided a place to experience the simultaneous loss of innocence and prejudice. Robert Pollack The Seminars bring together three generations of scholars and nonacademic members: young professionals, persons in the prime years of their careers, and emeriti. The University Seminars Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Newsletter Announcements Books Archive Newsletter Newsletter | Spring 2022 Dear Seminars Community, As you know, our long-anticipated reunion was not to be. I made the decision to cancel our Annual Dinner because I did not believe we could safely convene with rapidly spreading COVID-19 variants. Our office... Read More → View all items Announcements 2022 Annual Dinner Due to increasing concerns about attending a large gathering with food while Covid-19 variants are rapidly spreading, we have regretfully decided to once again postpone our 76th Annual Dinner. We have rescheduled for November 16, 2022. 2022 Tannenbaum Lecture Hecuba’s Howl: Poetry as Feminist Lament ... Read More → View all items Books The Future of the Corpse: Changing Ecologies of Death and Disposition This book demonstrates that American society today is in a pivotal period for re-imaging end-of-life care, funerary services, human disposition methods, memorializing, and mourning. The editors and contributors outline the past, present, and future of death care rituals,... Read More → View all items Archive The University Seminars Archive The University Seminars Archive is a valuable compilation of intellectual history spanning nearly 75 years. In the academic year 1944-1945, five seminars began to meet on an ongoing basis; three of those original seminars remain active. Since these WWII-era beginnings,... Read More → View all items 2nd Floor, Faculty House, 64 Morningside Drive, MC 2302 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212.854.2389 | Fax: 212.854.8248 | Email: univ.seminars@columbia.edu Support the Seminars © 2022 Columbia University |