Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Programs and Initiatives Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program About University Life’s Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Many across our campus community are deeply engaged in efforts to promote racial justice at Columbia and beyond. Annually, University Life invites students to apply for the Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program and share innovative ideas to address racism. Learn all about the 2021-22 grantees Learn all about the 2020-21 grantees Program Goals To receive funding through the Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program, your project should meet one or more of the following goals: Provide opportunities, such as workshops or training, to educate our student community to understand and unlearn racism, effectively act or advocate to address racism, and understand the intersectional dynamics of oppression. Broaden the conversation on antiracism. One example would be hosting a panel discussion to highlight new or rising voices on this topic. Strengthen our campus culture of inclusion and belonging. An example would be a social media campaign or peer mentorship program. In addition, the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life will support projects that focus in some significant way on the intersection of race and racism, and issues connected to religion, belief and/or secularism. Proposed projects do not have to mirror the examples offered. We look forward to the creative ways Columbia students will offer to advance the University’s commitment to antiracism. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions What is the Racial Justice Mini Grant Program? Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program provides grants recipients whose projects met one or more of the following goals: Provide opportunities, such as workshops or training, for the student community at Columbia to understand and unlearn racism, effectively act or advocate to address racism, and understand the intersectional dynamics of oppression. Broaden the conversation on antiracism, for example hosting a panel discussion to highlight new or rising voices on this topic. Strengthen our campus culture of inclusion and belonging. For example, a social media campaign or peer mentorship program. In addition, the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life is supporting projects that focus in some significant way on the intersection of race and racism and issues connected to religion, belief and/or secularism. Awarded recipients will be featured on University Life's website, social media, and will receive support marketing their funded events and/or programs. They will also be invited to participate in an end-of-year roundtable event open to all students. How can I learn more the projects or participate in events? Read University Life's weekly Events newsletters, where we’ll highlight projects and events made possible by the Mini-Grants Program. Look for event updates on social media – if you are not already following us on Instagram or Facebook, this is a great time to start! Check the University Life Events Calendar for upcoming event announcements. How is the Mini-Grants Program funded? This project is funded through a partnership with University Life and the Institute for Religion, Culture and Public Life. Eligibility and Requirements Proposed projects do not have to mirror the examples offered. We look forward to the creative ways Columbia students will offer to advance the University’s commitment to antiracism. Funding awards will range from $50 to $1,500. Expand all Collapse all Eligibility All currently enrolled students at Columbia’s 17 schools are eligible to apply. All event-related projects must receive a review, in which University Life staff and other campus partners will evaluate the details of a proposed student event to ensure proper coordination and planning. Projects must be student-initiated. Existing projects will be considered. Project Requirements Focus on the Columbia University community Address at least one program goal Adhere to the Columbia Community Health Compact In addition, event-based projects must be open to all Columbia students. Restrictions and Other Important Information Funding may not be used for groceries, catering or other food expenses. Funded activities must be completed by May 3, 2022. If a proposed project is meant to be ongoing, please use the project description to explain why and how it will be sustained. At the end of the project, awardees will be asked to submit a brief final report about project outcomes, how funds were used and how many students participated. We will share a form with awardees. Awardees will be invited to discuss their project and its outcomes at a University Life-sponsored event for the Columbia community. How to Apply Thank you for your interest in this program. Applications are now closed and will reopen in Fall 2022. If you have any questions, please reach out to us at [email protected]edu. We’re happy to talk with you. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close