Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University University Life Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Student Resources Get Involved Inclusion and Belonging Programs and Initiatives Events Messages About Student Resources Directory In An Emergency Discrimination, Harassment or Gender-Based Misconduct Freedom of Expression on our Campus Mental Health Resources Sexual Respect Student Services ColumbiaiGrad.com Maps and Locations Arts and Recreation Inclusion and Belonging University Policies Rules of University Conduct Schools Directory Key Campus Resources Guide (PDF) Resources for Students With Children Pregnant Students University Life Ambassadors Interschool Governing Board University Life Events Council Student Voices The Graduate Initiative DACA & Undocumented Inclusive Public Safety Inclusive Public Safety Advisory Committee Resources for Promoting Social Justice & Combating Bias Responding to Bias Pronouns in Use Welcome Home Columbia Community Citizenship Initiative FAQs CU Engage: Civic Engagement at Columbia University The Graduate Initiative Well-Being at Columbia Racial Justice Mini-Grant Program Events Video Library University Life Discussions University Life Messages Meet University Life Mission and Vision Press Coverage University Life You are here: Home Get Involved University Life Ambassadors University Life Ambassadors University Life Ambassadors Leave a legacy at Columbia by becoming a University Life Ambassador! You can help build an inclusive community, gain leadership skills, and make rewarding connections with students across schools. University Life Ambassadors contribute ideas, engage with other student leaders, consult with University Life staff, promote events and more. Ambassadors also have opportunities to share their voice, perspectives or experience on timely topics for University Life’s communications channels. The 2021-2022 cohort of University Life Ambassadors will come together for an orientation program to learn about University Life and different service options. From there, each Ambassador will select a focus from the following options: Columbia Welcome: Ambassadors welcome students to the new academic year, plan events and help shape the community at Columbia. Columbia Welcome helps to cultivate a sense of inclusion and belonging for new and returning students at the start of each semester. Wellness: Throughout the academic year, Ambassadors plan, promote and staff events, and collaborate with other student leaders to engage in important conversations about health and well-being. These Ambassadors support Wellness Days, which offer students a series of events and workshops that promote mental health and well-being. Sexual Respect: Ambassadors help spread the word, engage with other student leaders and contribute ideas to the Sexual Respect and Community Citizenship Initiative (SRI). Inclusion and Belonging: Ambassadors learn how to facilitate dynamic conversations about race, identity and inclusion through the Campus Conversations program. Additionally, Inclusion and Belonging Ambassadors provide critical feedback on the Community Citizenship Initiative, staff events and engage student leaders on programs and other efforts that promote inclusion and belonging across the University All students are welcome to apply to the University Life Ambassador program, and all Ambassadors will be recognized for their contributions to the community. Fall 2022 applications are now open! Fill out your application by Monday, March 28. Curious to learn more? Reach out to University Life at [email protected]. University Life1150 Amsterdam Ave., 208 Philosophy Hall · NY, NY 10027 Phone 212-853-1628 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close