Your browser does not support JavaScript! This will website not will not operate properly without JavaScript. Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Are you a current UNM Employee? Retiree? Hiring Coordinator or Approver? Log in here! UNMJobs Menu ☰ ˟ I would like to... Search for a Job Check on my Application Sign my Offer Letter Complete Onboarding Tasks Need Help? Staff Careers Faculty Careers Student Jobs Temp Assignments Why work at UNM? For firsthand information on why UNM is a great place to work and learn, visit UNM Proud to hear directly from University employees, faculty, students, and alumni. In addition to all the University has to offer, you have the added benefit of living in New Mexico, a land rich with art, history, culture, and outdoor activities, all with a very affordable cost of living. For more about life in New Mexico, visit NewMexicoTrue. Women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Unexpected on Purpose Requesting an Accommodation Women, minorities, veterans, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and University of New Mexico policy, if you have a disability and would like to request an accommodation in order to apply for a position with the University of New Mexico, or if you cannot use the online application system, please contact the Support areas below for assistance with the application process. Other links: New Mexico Inspection of Public Records Act (IPRA) Campus Safety (Clery Act) Equal Opportunity Employer The University of New Mexico is an affirmative action, equal opportunity employer, making decisions without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, veteran status, disability, or any other protected class. We are committed to hiring and retaining a diverse workforce and are dedicated to the goal of building an inclusive and pluralistic faculty and staff. We are committed to teaching and working in a multicultural environment. Visit the links below for more information regarding our commitment to affirmative action and equal opportunity: Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action at the University of New Mexico Equal Employment Opportunity is THE LAW Visit the links below for more information regarding our commitment to affirmative action and equal opportunity: Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action at the University of New Mexico Equal Employment Opportunity is THE LAW © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on Tumblr UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Website Comments Accessibility Legal