Education Research Patient Care Community U Health Plans About Us Giving Search Menu Education Research Patient Care Community U Health Plans About Us Giving Calendar Search University of Utah Health Home Research Find a Researcher Driven to Discover Our world-class research is advancing knowledge and transforming clinical practice to improve health. Research Areas & initiatives Education & Training Resources for Researchers Who We Are Advancing Science and Medicine As a large academic medical center set within the thriving University of Utah campus, U of U Health is uniquely positioned to tackle complex issues in our society. With scientists down the hall from health care providers and across campus from scholars in diverse fields, we bring interdisciplinary groups together. When we combine their broad scientific expertise with the large clinical footprint of our health system, we benefit our community, the nation, and the world. 948 faculty advance science in 5 schools and colleges and 35 departments 3,249 active projects, 4,658 publications in 2021 Research funding doubled in less than a decade, reaching $428 million in 2021 Discovery and Innovation at University of Utah Health From pioneering personalized medicine treatments to developing drugs to combat HIV to innovating precision genome editing tools, scientist at U of U Health are changing how science is done. Pioneering the Future celebrates recent field-changing discoveries and high-impact innovations from our researchers. View Pioneering the Future Science That Inspires Learn how science at U of U Health is changing our world. Trailblazing Ideas Scientists at U of U Health are pioneering ways to accelerate biomedical research and bring a better quality of life to patients, and are paving the way to better therapeutics and diagnostic tools. Learn More Star-Wars Inspired Prosthetic Jacob George, PhD, is helping develop a motorized limb covered with a silicone “skin” called the LUKE arm. Amputees can move the prosthetic with their thoughts; the device also restores a sense of touch. Learn More Read the Most Recent News May 26, 2022 $8 Million Collaborative Project Aims to Prevent TBI in Military Personnel U of U Health researchers join national effort exploring how to better prevent traumatic brain injury in military personnel Read More May 26, 2022 $8 Million Collaborative Project Aims to Prevent TBI in Military Personnel U of U Health researchers join national effort exploring how to better prevent traumatic brain injury in military personnel Read More May 23, 2022 Scientists Find Soft Sea Corals Are Source of Sought-After “Anti-Cancer” Compound Researchers at University of Utah Health report that easy-to-find soft corals—flexible corals that resemble underwater plants—are the source of a natural chemical that had shown promise in initial studies for treatin... Read More May 23, 2022 Scientists Find Soft Sea Corals Are Source of Sought-After “Anti-Cancer” Compound Researchers at University of Utah Health report that easy-to-find soft corals—flexible corals that resemble underwater plants—are the source of a natural chemical that had shown promise in initial studies for treatin... Read More May 17, 2022 Searching for Solutions to Prevent and Treat Epilepsy The University of Utah College of Pharmacy’s Anticonvulsant Drug Development (ADD) Program has been awarded a five-year $34 million contract renewal with the NIH’s National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Str... Read More May 17, 2022 Searching for Solutions to Prevent and Treat Epilepsy The University of Utah College of Pharmacy’s Anticonvulsant Drug Development (ADD) Program has been awarded a five-year $34 million contract renewal with the NIH’s National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Str... Read More View More Quick Links Webmaster Disclaimer Privacy Facebook Twitter Youtube Youtube Contact Us Senior Vice Present for Health Sciences Research Office University of Utah Skaggs Hall 30 S 2000 E Suite 250 Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801-585-0851