Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Media Relations Search Search Site Navigation News Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff About Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Media Relations Main navigation News Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff About News Oregon Experts Oregon Academic and Research Experts University of Oregon researchers are changing the way we think about everything from wildfires to human performance and children's behavioral health to data science. We are reshaping the world through green chemistry and examining life at the nano-scale. We're home to many of the world's elite researchers; experts who are available for media requests. Making Headlines Oregon in the News The discovery of one of North America’s oldest known artifacts. A new way of treating arsenic-contaminated water to make it safe to drink. A student concludes that people likely rolled the hats that rest atop Easter Island's famous structures. Big things happen here. And the media have noticed. To contact an Oregon Expert: Molly Blancett blancett@uoregon.edu AroundtheO News Media Relations 1239 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Johnson Hall , Suite 10 P: 541-346-3134 uonews@uoregon.edu Visit us on Twitter Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.