Skip to main Menu Apply Admissions expand_more Tuition and Financial Aid Events Frequently Asked Questions Academics expand_more Course Descriptions Leadership and Faculty Student Experience Apply The Online MBA From the University of Miami No GMAT Required to Apply Request Information Next Step close Close Modal Request Information Next Step The University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School — Always Moving Forward Designed to reflect the uniquely multicultural and future-focused perspective of the city itself, the online MBA program from the University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School empowers you to transform global business and build deep connections within Miami’s thriving ecosystem—all without putting your career on hold. A Top-Ranked and Accredited Institution NO. 2 Ranked the No. 2 MBA in Florida by U.S. News & World Report in 20211 NO. 8 Miami Herbert Business School is ranked No. 8 in MBA faculty quality in the world by The Economist.2 NO. 7 University of Miami’s MBA is ranked No. 7 in business sustainability education nationally by Corporate Knights Better World MBA Ranking in 2020.3 NO. 7 Miami Herbert Business School is ranked No. 7 for business school diversity by Bloomberg Businessweek in 2021.4 NO. 10 Miami is ranked No. 10 in the U.S. for global startup ecosystems by Startup Genome in 2021.5 Miami Herbert Business School is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the leading accreditor of business schools. Miami Herbert Business School is an EQUIS accredited institution—one of only five business schools in the entire United States with EQUIS accreditation. EQUIS, which recognizes business schools that are trying to make an impact beyond their domestic frontier, is the leading international system of quality assessment, improvement, and accreditation of business schools worldwide.6 Tap into the Energy of Miami We’re preparing a diverse and energetic community of business professionals ready to discover innovative, sustainable solutions to tomorrow’s business challenges. Are you ready to join us? Request Information close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Flexible Online MBA With a Diverse Community Miami Herbert Business School is committed to building a culturally and professionally diverse global community. The wide range of perspectives and experiences within every classroom prepares our graduates to be truly international-business ready. Collaborative Online Environment Our online MBA is designed to help you build strong connections with classmates and faculty through a combination of live online classes, asynchronous coursework, in-person learning experiences, and networking events. Whether you’re looking to bounce elevator pitches off of your classmates or need one-on-one advice from our world-ranked faculty, our one-click online dashboard offers easy access to the University of Miami community. If you’re interested in exploring our on-campus MBA program and the learning environment there, visit our on-campus website. Two Different Tracks—Same Expert Faculty Miami Herbert offers two learning tracks for a personalized graduate experience—the online MBA and the online accelerated MBA. While the time it takes to complete each program and credits required may be different, both tracks are led by our world-ranked MBA faculty.2 Learn more about the differences and similarities of the tracks below. Online MBA Designed for professionals of all experience levels, the online MBA program empowers students to build a strong business foundation, gain connections to global companies, and prepare to succeed in industries that align with their career passions. Learn more about requirements for the online MBA on our admissions page. Time to complete 20 months on a full-time schedule or 28 months on a part-time schedule Total credits 42 credits, including two immersions Prerequisites Bachelor’s degree required, but no work experience needed Accelerated Online MBA Designed for professionals with an educational background in business who are looking to enhance their business expertise, the accelerated track offers students the ability to apply more quickly what they learn in the classroom directly to their career. Learn more about requirements for the accelerated track on our admissions page. Time to complete 16 months on a full-time schedule or 24 months on a part-time schedule Total credits 35 credits—students waive the one-credit Leading Change in Organizations immersion course and the Managerial Economics and Responsible Business courses Prerequisites A bachelor’s, master’s, or equivalent degree in business earned within the last seven years, as well as minimum two years of professional experience is required Globally Focused Curriculum Our online MBA curriculum is designed with international business in mind and prepares you to lead diverse teams at global companies. You’ll learn to think critically across a variety of key fields, including management, economics, marketing, finance, business law, and technology. Students will be required to attend two immersion experiences (one virtual and one on the University of Miami campus). While it is highly encouraged to attend the on campus immersion, there will be an alternative option for those facing extenuating circumstances. The immersion experiences will be approximately three to five days in length. Students will be responsible for all expenses, including travel, lodging and program costs, associated with the on campus immersion experience. For international students, you may also be responsible for securing the appropriate visa and for covering related costs. Courses are led by the same world-ranked faculty who teach on campus and will provide you with real-world international business case studies.2 Your instructors will help you become a better negotiator, strategic thinker, and more effective team leader for a global business environment. Courses include: Financial Accounting and Reporting Foundations of Marketing Management Fundamentals of Finance Responsible Business Innovative Business Strategies for Future Leaders Management of Digital Transformation Create Connections. Go Global. Take on the next chapter of your business career and explore how the University of Miami can help you build important global connections. Request Information close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Admissions Process The online MBA program offers three start dates per year, and no GMAT scores are required to apply. Applicants who apply by the priority deadline will receive a waived application fee, receive an admissions decision sooner, and have more time to plan for the future. Scholarships are also available for qualified applicants. Upcoming deadlines for the September 2022 cohort: Early Priority Deadline May 14, 2022 Priority Deadline June 25, 2022 Final Deadline July 26, 2022 Classes Start September 6, 2022** Upon receipt of final University approval, classes will start in September of 2022. Scholarships Available for Qualified International Applicants Qualified international students who enroll in the September 2022 and January 2023 cohorts are eligible to receive a scholarship of up to 50% of tuition cost. Please reach out to your admissions counselor for information on how to apply. Connections to Miami and Beyond Miami is a gateway and business hub to not only Latin America but to the larger international business world—and our students feel it. Whether it’s through events hosted by the University of Miami to build international connections or the wide variety of countries and cultural backgrounds our students come from, at Miami Herbert Business School we explore and celebrate the things that connect us. Graduates of our on-campus program have gone on to work at organizations that have headquarters in Miami, such as the Miami Heat and Norwegian Cruise Line, as well as leading international corporations that include: Amazon | American Express | Capital One | Carnival | Citi | Coca Cola Deutsche Bank | IBM | Mastercard | Viacom | Visa Earn an MBA That Aligns with Your Business Passions Our world-ranked faculty are ready to help empower your business career.2 Request information today to learn more about the online program. Request Information Next Step Upon receipt of final University approval, classes will start in January of 2022. 1U.S. News & World Report, 2022 Best Business Schools from U.S. News (Retrieved July 2021)arrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference 2The Economist, Full-Time MBA Ranking 2021 (Retrieved September 2021)arrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference 3Corporate Knights, 2020 Better World MBA Top 40 (Retrieved September 2021)arrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference 4Bloomberg Businessweek, Best B-School’s Diversity Index (Retrieved September 2021)arrow_upward 5Startup Genome, The Global Startup Ecosystem Report 2021 (Retrieved September 2021Return to footnote referencearrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference 6EFMD Global, EQUIS Accredited Schools (Retrieved October 2021)arrow_upwardReturn to footnote reference REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request Information Next Step Admissions Academics Student Experience 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms of Use Sitemap 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 callPhone Number: 844-922-4207 emailEmail: admissions@onlinemba.miami.edu External link:open_in_new © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 close Close Modal Request Information Next Step