Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Web Accessibility at the University of Oregon The University of Oregon is committed to creating a diverse learning and working environment that is inclusive and accessible for everyone. Information on the university’s websites should be accessible to all students, faculty, staff, and other visitors, including users with visual, hearing, mobility, and cognitive disabilities. In support of these efforts, the university strives to maintain its websites in a manner that is consistent with the World Wide Web Consortium’s (W3C’s) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level AA and the Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 for web content. For more information about basic accessibility recommendations, visit University Communications and the Digital Accessibility Program. Report a Concern We take web accessibility seriously and rely on those who visit our websites to inform us of any accessibility barriers they encounter. We encourage anyone who may have encountered a barrier to accessing information or using one of our websites to report their concern. While we will do our best to quickly respond to, and address your concern, please keep in mind that the university is a large institution with many different colleges, departments, web developers, and administrators. Report a Concern File a Complaint In the event that you are dissatisfied with the university’s response to your concern, you may contact the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance to file a complaint by email. File a Complaint CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.