Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Apply Apply now to become part of the next class of brilliant, dynamic, determined Ducks. Come ready to innovate, start something, research, and explore the limits of your limits. Bring questions. We’ll find answers, together. Or bring answers and we’ll find ways to put your ideas into action. This is where it all happens. This is where we wonder, collaborate, search, create, and find better ways. Ready to do this? Start right here, right now. Just keep an eye on the admission deadlines. Don’t see what you need? Read more about applying to the UO. APPLY BELOW Freshmen Transfer International Graduate School Law School Schools & Colleges Prospective Student Resources Admissions Admissions Counselors Non-Traditional Students Requirements Check Your Application Status Costs & Financial Aid Visit the UO Accessible Education Center Safety University Housing CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.