Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Report a Concern REPORT A CONCERN We want to make reporting as simple as possible. We have provided a list of categories for reporting concerns. This list is not exhaustive, but is intended to assist you in identifying the type of issue that matches your concern. If this is an emergency, dial 9-1-1. For non-emergencies, call UOPD at 541-346-2919. To report concerns involving an employee: To report bias, discrimination or harassment by a UO employee To report all other concerns about a UO employee To report bias, discrimination, or harassment involving UO student or employee: Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance To report concerns involving a student: To report a suicide concern, threat to campus or non-emergency student-related concerns To report a potential student conduct violation or academic misconduct by a student To report bias, sex or gender-based harassment, sexual assault or interpersonal violence Confidential Support for Survivors To report a concern regarding student hazing To report concerns about research: To report a concern about research misconduct, conflict of interest, animal welfare, or other matters related to research To report concerns involving fraud, waste or abuse: Office of Internal Audit To report non-emergency safety concerns: Safety and Risk Services To report non-emergency crimes to UOPD: University of Oregon Police Department If this is an emergency, dial 911. For non-emergencies, UOPD at 541-346-2919. Please contact reportaconcern@uoregon.edu with questions regarding this website. CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.