Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University CUMC | UPA Breast Study Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded What is UPA? What Are We Investigating? Study Design Am I Right for the Study? Get Involved CUMC | UPA Breast Study Home UPA Breast Study: We want to find out if UPA changes the breast in a way that could prevent breast cancer. What is UPA? UPA, or ulipristal acetate, is a safe drug that changes the way your body responds to progesterone, a sex hormone that is made when you ovulate and can cause your breast cells to divide. It is currently FDA approved to be used as an emergency contraceptive at 30mg. In Europe, it is approved as a treatment for uterine fibroids at 5mg. We will investigate UPA a 10mg dose, which past studies tell us is safe and well-tolerated. Ok...but what does UPA have to do with breast cancer? Because UPA blocks progesterone, we wonder if UPA might prevent breast cells from multiplying. If so, then it might prevent breast cancer from developing over time. We have drugs now that prevent breast cancer - tamoxifen and raloxifene. But these drugs have side effects that keep many women from using them. We are looking for the next generation breast cancer prevention medication. UPA Breast Study A research study by Columbia University Medical Center in collaboration with Weill Cornell Medical Center. Principal Investigator: Carolyn Westhoff MD, MSc Funded by the National Cancer Institute what are we investigating? check-circle icon Can UPA decrease breast cell proliferation? code-fork icon Can MRI replace breast biopsy in future study of proliferation? asterisk icon Can UPA one day be developed as a daily birth control pill that prevents breast cancer? random icon How do the effects of UPA compare to those of the traditional birth control pill? study design Total study duration: 4.5 months Phase One A screening visit (1.5 hours) Up to 8 blood draw visits during your first month (15 min each) Phase one ends with an MRI scan of your breasts and a breast biopsy (3 to 4 hours) Phase Two You will take either a traditional birth control pill or a daily UPA pill for 3 months 5 study visits during the first two months and 7 visits in the last month (15 minutes each) A daily text message will ask you what time you took your pill each day Phase two ends with an MRI scan of your breasts and a breast biopsy (3 to 4 hours) You will receive modest compensation for all travel, time, and effort. Am I right for this study? Are you... female icon A woman aged 18 - 39? dashboard icon In good health with no breast cancer or previous breast surgeries? ban icon Willing to prevent becoming pregnant during the study? calendar icon Able to flexibly schedule frequent study visits? copy icon Willing to have 2 breast MRIs and biopsies? clipboard icon Currently not enrolled in other clinical research studies? adjust icon Not currently using hormonal birth control? pause icon Not claustrophobic? times-circle icon Not currently pregnant? Women with high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney disease, liver disease, heart disease, or a history of blood clots will not be able to participate in the study. Get Involved and give us a call! Note: the two MRI visits will occur at Columbia regardless of your routine visit location Columbia University Irving Medical Center - Washington Heights 622 W. 168th St. New York, NY 10032 [email protected] (212) 305-0947 Weill Cornell Medical Center - Upper East Side 525 E. 68th St. New York, NY 10065 [email protected] (646) 962-8313 Google Map Location Columbia University Irving Medical Center - Washington Heights622 W. 168th St. · New York, NY 10032 Weill Cornell Medical Center - Upper East Side525 E. 68th St. · New York, NY 10065 Phone (212) 305-0947 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close