Skip to main content Operating Safely Learn what changes are being made to keep everyone safe. Latest updates. » close University of Pittsburgh at Bradford University of Pittsburgh at Bradford Open Search Close Search search Search search Search Open Menu Close Menu menu About Us Academics Admissions & Aid Life at Pitt-Bradford Athletics Info for Current Students Incoming Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Community Veterans Giving Apply Request Information Visit Campus Give Operating Safely Students will create amazing things in this headquarters of innovation. Rick Esch, interim president George B. Duke Engineering and Information Technologies Building Commit to Pitt-Bradford Become a member of the Pitt-Bradford community by paying your deposit, then get ready to have an amazing college experience. Deposit today. Bradford, PA You’ll have the perfect opportunity to love where you learn when you're surrounded by the beauty of the Allegheny National Forest and nestled within the PA Wilds. Let Us Show You Around Go Outside Go Inside Learn to fly fish on the Tunungwant Creek on campus. Prepare to rock with the climbing club. Students enjoy a day canoeing on the Marilla Reservoir. Hike or research in the Allegheny National Forest. Connect with history and nature at Kinzua Bridge State Park. Ski or snowshoe in Allegany State Park. Load More Cheer on the Panthers. Eat with your friends three times a day. Play games with your classmates at campus events. Be a Diamond Stepper -- or just enjoy watching. Explore your creative side. Load More Power of Pitt You’ll be part of a welcoming, friendly and diverse campus community and have access to the vast resources of a world-renowned university at Pitt-Bradford, which is a regional campus of the University of Pittsburgh. Learn More Majors & Minors You’ll choose from more than 40 majors and 50 minors and pre-professional programs that will allow you to earn a world-renowned degree in a personalized environment. FIND YOUR PROGRAM Undergraduate Research You won’t be limited to learning just in the classroom. You’ll also have many opportunities to conduct research in the lab, in the forest and in the mountains. SEE WHAT OTHERS HAVE RESEARCHED Study Abroad You can study in one of 75 countries through the Pitt Study Abroad program. . LEARN MORE ABOUT THE PROGRAM Internships You’ll get real-world experience, which looks great on a resume, on an internship. FIND OUT MORE Affordability Yes, you can afford a Pitt-Bradford education. Find out how Top0 most affordable four-year public universities in PA. By the Numbers 0.4% of our students receive financial assistance. See Scholarships Save$0K with the Go Beyond NYS award. Check for your county University of Pittsburgh at Bradford Contact Us 300 Campus Drive, Bradford, PA 16701 814-362-7500 800-872-1787 Map & Directions Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram YouVisit my.pitt.edu Find Faculty & Staff Library News Events The Arts Employment Opportunities Conference Services Administrative Offices footer__tag Accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. Privacy Policy Title IX © 2022 University of Pittsburgh at Bradford. All rights reserved.