BEN's Attic Home About BEN's Attic Policies FAQ Contact Login Home Penn A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Webmail BEN's Attic Welcome to BEN's Attic – University of Pennsylvania’s Surplus Property Exchange Site Purchasing Services welcomes you to BEN's Attic, the online exchange for surplus Penn property. With an easy and sustainable way to find a new use for items that are no longer needed (lab equipment, furniture, and office supplies) by School and Center departments. This site supports the University's Climate Action Plan and sustainable practices on campus. Login I'm Searching For Feature Austin Sutherland is looking for a free desktop monitor. If you have an extra in your area, please reach out to him at austinrs@upenn.edu ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If you can't find what you're looking for in Ben's Attic, send an email to BensAttic@upenn.edu with a description and a maximum price you would be willing to pay. Your request will be posted here, and you never know, someone may have just what you need. Procurement Services has enabled a new feature in BEN’s ATTIC that tracks savings realized by repurposing these items. There is an added data field titled “Market Value,” which captures market value of the item being sold or repurposed. This value is intended to represent estimated savings and will only be used for internal reporting purposes. When posting items in Ben’s Attic, please provide your best estimate. Quick Tips This site is for departmental use only. No personal purchases are allowed. Use of Ben’s Attic to list items for sale and /or purchase items is open to all Penn faculty and staff. A valid PennKey and password is needed to log in to the site. When posting items for sale or making a purchase, individuals are prompted to enter the name of the department’s Business Administrator. First-time users will automatically be registered as a “Browser” within the system until registered. “Browsers” need to register as a “Buyer/Seller” in order to suggest a listing or make a purchase. Please adhere to the policies defining the use of this application. Potential Buyers should call and make an appointment with the seller before going to view an item. Buyers and Sellers are encouraged to work together to facilitate transportation of purchased items. Sellers who have an immediate need to have an item(s) removed from their area by a certain date should put that information into the item description Ben’s Attic tracks savings realized by repurposing these items. There is an added data field titled “Market Value,” which captures market value of the item being sold or repurposed. This value is intended to represent estimated savings and is used for internal reporting purposes. When posting items in Ben’s Attic, please provide your best estimate. This will be permanently deleted, are you sure you want to delete? Copyright © 2022, University of Pennsylvania 3451 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 • (215) 898-5000 Copyright Information | Contact Us | Privacy Policy | Disclaimer