Skip to main content Undergraduate Research & Fellowships Log In Search Menu Find an Opportunity Fellowships Student Stories For Faculty Fulbright Week 2022 Research Research Symposium Scholar Programs Columbia College Scholar Programs Beckman and Science Scholars Humanities Research Scholars Program HRSP Reflections Laidlaw Scholarship Laidlaw Research Abstracts Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship How to Apply MMUF Fellows and Alumni Rabi Scholars Current Rabi Scholars Publications Rabi Faculty Committee Science Research Fellows Current Science Research Fellows Columbia Engineering Scholar Programs C.P. Davis Scholars Egleston Scholars General Studies Scholar Programs Program for Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) For Faculty Research Ambassadors and Peer Advisors Help & Advice About Us Staff Advising Events Announcements Home / Fellowships Fellowships Fellowships offer many opportunities for you to develop your academic and professional interests. They can help you study abroad, get involved in research or public service, or take on a postgraduate degree. Fellowships are also a networking opportunity. Recipients become part of a lasting network of like-minded people from around the country and around the world. Our advisers can help you determine which opportunities help you meet your goals. Once you find a fellowship, we support you throughout the entire application process. Opportunities exist for every class year, so it is never too early to begin to explore your options. Find an Opportunity How to Apply Once you have found some fellowships you want to apply to, you will need to allow for plenty of time since applying takes many steps. Each application process is different. Our advisers are here to support you every step of the way. Read more about How to Apply Student Stories Our previous fellowship participants are a valuable resource for students who want to understand the application and interview process. Our student stories can also give you an inside look at the fellowship experience, helping you select the right fellowship to further your academic and professional goals. Read more about Student Stories Columbia University Undergraduate Research & Fellowships 202 Hamilton Hall, MC 2811 1130 Amsterdam Ave New York, NY 10027 212-853-2375 ugrad-urf@columbia.edu Find an Opportunity Fellowships Research Help & Advice About Us © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page