Skip to main content Undergraduate Research & Fellowships Log In Search Menu Find an Opportunity Fellowships Student Stories For Faculty Fulbright Week 2022 Research Research Symposium Scholar Programs Columbia College Scholar Programs Beckman and Science Scholars Humanities Research Scholars Program HRSP Reflections Laidlaw Scholarship Laidlaw Research Abstracts Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship How to Apply MMUF Fellows and Alumni Rabi Scholars Current Rabi Scholars Publications Rabi Faculty Committee Science Research Fellows Current Science Research Fellows Columbia Engineering Scholar Programs C.P. Davis Scholars Egleston Scholars General Studies Scholar Programs Program for Academic Leadership and Service (PALS) For Faculty Research Ambassadors and Peer Advisors Help & Advice About Us Staff Advising Events Announcements Jonathan Tanaka CC'23 Awarded Prestiguous Beinecke Scholarship The program seeks to encourage highly motivated students to pursue opportunities available to them and to be courageous in the selection of a graduate course of study in the arts, humanities and social sciences. Read More Congratulations to Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars! The Truman Scholarship is the premier graduate scholarship for aspiring public service leaders in the United States. Read More Seven Columbia undergraduates selected for the 2022 Critical Language Scholarship The CLS provides group-based summer intensive language instruction and structured cultural enrichment experiences for eight to ten weeks, in one of a dozen or more critical language sites overseas. Read More Five Columbians Named 2022 Goldwater Scholars The Goldwater Scholarship represents the preeminent undergraduate award in the fields of mathematics, the natural sciences and engineering Read More Columbians Named 2022 Rhodes Scholars Andre Chan CC’21 has been awarded the Rhodes Scholarship for Hong Kong, Arman Husein CC’22, of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, is the scholar elect of Rhodes – Malaysia, and Sydni Scott CC’22, of Unionville, Connecticut has received a US Rhodes Scholarship. Read more Fellowships We support Columbia undergraduates and alumni in exploring and applying for internal, national, and international fellowships. We inform students, faculty, and staff about a full range of opportunities and help students determine which programs best meet their intellectual, professional, and personal goals. Read More William Yuen Yee CC’22 Named Michel-David Weill Scholarship laureate William graduated from Columbia College with a double major in Political Science and East Asian Studies and will pursue a master's degree in International Governance and Diplomacy at the Paris School of International Affairs. Read More Research Research allows you to build relationships with faculty; explore areas of interest; prepare for a senior thesis; prepare for graduate school; gain new knowledge in a topic of interest; engage in exciting projects during the summer and/or academic year; gain tools that will serve you well as you transition out of college. Read More Welcome to Undergraduate Research and Fellowships! There are exciting research and fellowship opportunities available to students at every stage of the Columbia experience and beyond. Though COVID-19 gives rise to unconventional methods, URF Advisors remain committed to supporting students throughout their fellowship and research journeys virtually until we return to campus. URF will continue to offer advising via appointment or virtual walk-in sessions. Find an Opportunity Upcoming Events Jun 2 11:00am to 12:00pm Prestigious Fellowships for International Students Jun 7 12:30pm to 1:30pm Applying for postgraduate fellowships: Pro-Tips! Jun 15 1:00pm to 2:00pm A focus on early deadlines! Rhodes, Marshall, Mitchell Scholarships See All Upcoming Deadlines Jun 30 Deadline for Application Ambassador Year in China Program Jun 30 Deadline for Application Quad Fellowship Jul 18 Deadline for Application Rhodes Global Scholarships Aug 15 Deadline for Application Churchill Scholarships Aug 15 Deadline for Application Marshall Scholarship See All Announcements & News University of Malta MA and PhD Full Scholarships (7/21) 2022 PPIA Public Service Weekend in Texas - Apply today! (Deadline 6/14) The Fitzpatrick Lab at Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute in NYC MA Social Justice and Public Service Scholarship at St. Mary's London (6/7) See All Columbia University Undergraduate Research & Fellowships 202 Hamilton Hall, MC 2811 1130 Amsterdam Ave New York, NY 10027 212-853-2375 ugrad-urf@columbia.edu Find an Opportunity Fellowships Research Help & Advice About Us © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | University Home Page