Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Usability & Web Accessibility Understanding Your User Usability Best Practices Usability Evaluation Web Accessibility Home > Web Accessibility > Accessibility at Yale Accessibility at Yale To report a disability-related accessibility issue on a Yale website or web application, please use the Accessibility Comments Form. Website Accessibility As part of Yale’s mission, Yale is committed to “the free exchange of ideas in an ethical, interdependent, and diverse community.” That diversity includes all people regardless of ability or disability. Websites and web applications are integral to the university’s academic and administrative work. Yale is committed to making information, programs and activities on its websites and web applications accessible to people with disabilities through its Web Accessibility Policy. The Web Accessibility Policy applies to websites and applications that conduct university business. Owners of such sites should be familiar with this policy and the Web Accessibility Procedure. The policy may also affect people in roles that work on university websites. People in roles that work on University websites and web applications should explore this website and take advantage of Yale’s accessibility best practices and trainings. To meet the requirements of the policy, university websites should comply with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (“WCAG”) 2 Level AA. To see answers to common questions about accessibility, including how the policy may affect you, visit the Frequently Asked Questions page. Common questions about accessibility at Yale are answered on the Frequently Asked Questions page. Email other questions to accessibility@yale.edu Other Yale Accessibility Resources Accessibility Resources at Yale: the primary website for information about all accessibility resources at Yale. Student Accessibility Services: the primary mission of Student Accessibility Services (SAS) is to facilitate individual accommodations for all students with disabilities throughout the entire University. Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning: The Poorvu Center provides resources and consultations for creating accessible course materials and teaching environments. Office of Institutional Equity and Access: the Office of Institutional Equity and Access administers an Employment Accommodations Program for employees with Disabilities, designed to facilitate individual accommodations for current or prospective Yale employees with disabilities. Campus Map: the campus map includes information about accessibility for buildings around campus. Additional NavigationClose Web Accessibility Accessibility at Yale Frequently Asked Questions New Projects Compliance & Exceptions Accessibility Statement Page Accommodation Plans Accessibility Comments and Suggestions Form University Policy University Procedure Working with Vendors Training Articles Accessibility Updates Yale UI Component Library Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale ITS Services Website Consultation and Build Usability Consulting and Research Accessibility Consulting, Tools and Training Website Consulting and Build Contact ux@yale.edu accessibility@yale.edu Zoom in/out Toggle fullscreen Share Close (Esc) Previous (arrow left) Next (arrow right)