Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Usability & Web Accessibility Understanding Your User Usability Best Practices Usability Evaluation Web Accessibility Home > Web Accessibility Web Accessibility Yale University is committed to making information, programs, and activities on its websites and web applications accessible to people with disabilities. Accessibility at Yale Learn about Yale’s Accessibility Policy, including what’s covered and steps toward compliance. Working with Vendors From redesigns to new applications, learn how to address accessibility during the procurement process. Training Information sessions, instructor-led workshops, and online options. Accessibility Articles Best practices, testing, checklists, and other information about implementing accessibility. Accessibility Updates Regular updates about Yale’s digital accessibility initiatives. Yale UI Component Library Use pre-compiled assets to give your project an accessible, Yale-branded look and feel. Getting Started with Accessibility To find out how the web accessibility policy impacts you, read our Frequently Asked Questions. Read the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview to learn more about the standards Yale is adopting, and then see our best practice articles. When you’re ready to begin updating websites, see our accessibility concepts articles and our WCAG checklist, or explore your training options. Join Our Mailing List Sign up for the digital accessibility email list to receive information about accessibility efforts and opportunities across campus. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale ITS Services Website Consultation and Build Usability Consulting and Research Accessibility Consulting, Tools and Training Website Consulting and Build Contact ux@yale.edu accessibility@yale.edu Zoom in/out Toggle fullscreen Share Close (Esc) Previous (arrow left) Next (arrow right)