Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Usability & Web Accessibility Understanding Your User Usability Best Practices Usability Evaluation Web Accessibility Home > Web Accessibility > Training Accessibility Trainings IT Academy: On-Demand Accessibility Trainings Our team offers online trainings that you can do on your own schedule. View the trainings by role or find a specific training in the filtered view below. Select any filter below and click on Apply to see results. Note: The role of Content Creator is someone who creates or edits digital content or information. Examples of digital content are web pages, images, videos, audio files, emails, social media posts, and PDFs. Role - Any -Business Analyst (BA)Content CreatorDesignerDeveloperProject Manager (PM)Quality Assurance (QA) Level - Any -123 Overview of Digital Accessibility at Yale Digital Accessibility for Content Editors: Part 1 Digital Accessibility for Content Editors: Part 2 Color for the Web Semantic HTML: Part 1 Semantic HTML: Part 2 Shift Left: How to Build Accessibility into Your Project WCAG: What You Need to Know (& How to Test): Part 1 WCAG: What You Need to Know (& How to Test): Part 2 Captioning Your Videos: Options and Best Practices PDF Accessibility PowerPoint Accessibility Word Document Accessibility Accessibility Design, Annotation and Tools Accessible Forms: Part 1 Accessible Forms: Part 2 Accessible Layouts ARIA 101: Part 1 ARIA 101: Part 2 How to Make Your SPA Accessible: Part 1 How to Make Your SPA Accessible: Part 2 Social Media Accessibility More Level 2 Coming Soon Level 3 Coming Soon Developer Training To support developers’ continuing education, the Digital Accessibility Team is hosting monthly Lunch and Learns where developers can learn something about accessibility that they can begin implementing right away. View upcoming and previous Lunch and Learn offerings. Email accessibility@yale.edu to request to be put on our distribution list to start receiving email notifications and reminders of upcoming Lunch and Learns. Accessibility Trainings by Request Our team provides on demand training by request. Please reach out to accessibility@yale.edu with your needs. Additional NavigationClose Web Accessibility Accessibility at Yale Working with Vendors Training Developer Training Faculty & Instructional Resources Siteimprove Social Media Training Articles Accessibility Updates Yale UI Component Library Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Yale ITS Services Website Consultation and Build Usability Consulting and Research Accessibility Consulting, Tools and Training Website Consulting and Build Contact ux@yale.edu accessibility@yale.edu Zoom in/out Toggle fullscreen Share Close (Esc) Previous (arrow left) Next (arrow right)