Skip Navigation xSign In Staff Faculty Careers at USC Search all jobs Keyword Job Category All Categories Academic Advising Academic Advising and Career Counseling Academic Officers Accounting, Finance and Banking Administration Administrative Support Arts Production Support Athletics Auxiliary Services Biomedical Business and Financial Management Child Care Services Clinical Administration 1 Clinical Case Management Compliance Data Analysis Dentistry Development and Fundraising Environmental Health and Safety Executive Assistants Facilities Management Facilities Management and Construction Faculty Faculty and Teaching Faculty Development Genetics Grants Administration & Sponsored Programs Health and Medical Services Human Resources Information Technology Information Technology Services Institutional Research and Planning Instructional Design 1 Keck Medicine of USC Laboratory Laboratory and Research Libraries Marketing and Events Multimedia 1 Nursing Nursing Services Ophthalmology 1 Pharmacy Pharmacy Services Physician Assistant Physicians Postdoctoral Psychology Public Safety Radio Broadcast Research and Clinical Support Research and Grants Administration Social Work Speech Therapy Student Support Services Support Services Technician Therapy and Rehabilitation USC Job Families Work location Select Alhambra, CA Alzheimer Therapeutic Research Institute Arcadia, CA Arlington, VA Bakersfield, CA Beverly Hills, CA Buena Park, CA Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles DEN Eileen and Kenneth T. Norris Dental Science Center Glendale, CA HMR Elaine Stevely Hoffman Medical Research Center Huntington Beach, CA Irvine, CA KGM LA Cancer Center, Koreatown Grand Medical LAC Los Angeles County + USC Hospital Las Vegas, NV LCM La Canada Medical Building Los Angeles, CA Los Angeles, CA - Downtown Los Angeles, CA - Health Sciences Campus Los Angeles, CA - University Park Campus Marina Del Rey, CA NBO Newport Beach Oncology-Orange Coast Oncology Hematology New York, NY Newport Beach, CA NYO New York City Office Pasadena, CA PHB Pasadena HRC Building Playa Vista, CA Sacramento, CA San Diego, CA San Francisco, CA Santa Clarita, CA USC-ATRI Biomarker Lab VHH Verdugo Hills Hospital Waltham, MA EMPLOYMENT TYPE Select Faculty Staff Reset Search USC University of Southern California We’re looking for exceptional individuals to help us fulfill our mission: Developing individuals and society as a whole through the cultivation and enrichment of the human mind and spirit. View all jobs at USC View staff jobs for current employees Important notice to all job applicants Recruitment fraud alert Labor Condition Applications Faculty “The University of Southern California is a leading research institution with an exceptional faculty that is dedicated to expanding knowledge, inspiring innovation, and creating an equitable and inclusive educational experience for future generations.” –Elizabeth Graddy, Executive Vice Provost for Academic Affairs View all faculty jobs Keck Medicine of USC Keck Medicine of USC is the University of Southern California’s medical enterprise, one of only two university-based medical systems in the Los Angeles area. Encompassing academic, research and clinical excellence, the medical system attracts internationally renowned experts who teach and practice across our system. View all jobs at Keck Medicine of USC Auxiliary Services At USC Auxiliary Services, our mission is to create the best USC experience for our students, faculty, staff, visitors and community members, as we provide services across our six business units (Hospitality, Housing, Transportation, Bookstores, USC Hotel and the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum). Auxiliary Services works diligently to welcome all visitors into the Trojan family and we are driven to succeed by our commitment to USC’s core values. Our team is comprised of some of the very best people in our industries, with diverse backgrounds and experiences, who come together to provide the best products and best service for all Trojans. View all Auxiliary Services jobs Information Technology Services At Information Technology Services, our goal is to be the university's trusted business partner by creating a culture of exceptional customer service. Bringing together a team of diverse and talented professionals, we provide the central IT services that support USC's schools, hospitals, research centers, and administrative units. Through our recently launched digital transformation initiatives, we aim to develop an environment of continuous service improvement, founded on cross-functional teamwork, industry best practices, innovation, and commitment to the customer experience. View all information technology jobs For over 100 years, USC and the U.S. military have stood side by side. The mission of our military and veteran initiatives is to serve those who serve. We support our employee-veterans as well as our student-veterans, ROTC students and families so they can succeed and lead in their chosen fields. USC has open positions from entry level to experienced where you can leverage your military experience, and we also offer resources to support your job search and career advancement. Explore careers today or visit our military and veterans initiatives site. Bring your leadership to our workplace today! Already working for USC and looking to refer a veteran? Click HERE to find out how! Staff jobs for current employees Please visit the Career Worklet on the Workday Homepage and select “Find Jobs” to view USC Jobs. (If you’re not currently a USC employee, click here to view USC jobs) A message from USC Talent Acquisition: Please be aware that USC employment offers are only made in writing by authorized university officials, and only after an applicant has completed the online application. Merely sending an email does not constitute an application, and any offer of employment received before an applicant completes the online application is not authorized or valid. If you suspect you are being contacted by an unauthorized recruiter, please email your concerns to uschr@usc.edu. Job matching With just one click and a connection to LinkedIn, we can connect you with jobs that match your work experience. Start matchingto jobs with your LinkedIn account Stay connected with University of Southern California Sign up to receive job alerts First Name Last Name Select interests Job CategoryADD Remove Phone Email Address LinkedIn Profile Confirm Email Recently added jobs RN Clinical - Float Pool Telemetry - Full Time 12 Hour Days (Non-Exempt) (Union) Los Angeles, California REQ20117192 RN Clinical - Float Pool Telemetry - Full Time 12 Hour Days (Non-Exempt) (Union) Los Angeles, California REQ20117191 RN Clinical - Float Pool Telemetry - Full Time 12 Hour Days (Non-Exempt) (Union) Los Angeles, California REQ20117489 Stay connected to USC Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Helpful information for applicants External applicants Internal applicants (current USC employees) Interested in working for USC on a temporary basis? Contact Trojan Talent Source (operated by Kelly Services) at (800) 409-1066 or 15HD@kellyservices.com. USC is a smoke-free environment USC is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by law or USC policy. USC will consider for employment all qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Los Angeles Fair Chance Initiative for Hiring ordinance (PDF)opens in a new window. We provide reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees with disabilities. Applicants with questions about access or requiring a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application or hiring process should contact USC Human Resources by phone at (213) 821-8100, or by email at uschr@usc.edu. Inquiries will be treated as confidential to the extent permitted by law. Read USC's Clery Act Annual Security Report Notice of Non-discrimination Sitemap EEO is the Law EEO is the Law Supplement Pay Transparency Non-Discrimination USC is an E-verify Employer