Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Academics > Academic Overview > Special Events Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Special Events In light of current global health concerns, many of our usual fundraisers and activities are on hold or have been modified. Camp Incredible at University School University School’s summer program consists of six one-week day camps and is open to any student 4 years old through 8th grade. Grade levels refer to the grade students will be entering into the following fall. PreK students must be 4 years old by the start date of the camp. Creative Producers Convention This event is held on a Thursday evening each year in April. The event celebrates all forms of creativity and includes many exhibits and activities. Class booths showcase student products and crafts. Older Intermediate students’ Type III research papers and products are exhibited. Family and student booths are also a part of the festival and may showcase cultural backgrounds, offer items for purchase or have activities and crafts for both students and adults. All USchool students are a part of the Creative Producers Convention and everyone is encouraged to attend. You may occasionally hear this festival referred to by its previous name — The Renaissance Fair. Drama Festival Annually in the spring semester, University School students in Primary 1 through Older Intermediate 8 present original short plays at our Drama Festival. The plays are a class project in which the students conduct the research, write, and produce the plays about a historical period, figure, or event, under the guidance of their teacher. The performances are traditionally held at the Allen Chapman Student Union on the TU campus during the day and again in the evening. Skills students learn during the drama festival include: • Performance skills such as projection and enunciation, as well as being comfortable in front of an audience. • How to be an audience member – sitting still, being quiet, offering applause when appropriate, being respectful of performers and fellow audience members, etc. • How to research historical events and/or people, including costumes, customs, speech, etc. • How to create a play. • Time management & Project management. • Collaborative work. • World creation. • Character development. Graduation and All-School Concert In May, University School’s graduation ceremony for 8th graders takes place. A Preschool Concert featuring our Early Childhood and Early Primary students precedes the ceremony. After graduation, students in Primary 1 and up are featured in a concert that includes performances by the 5th – 8th grade bands. These events are usually held in the Lorton Performance Center (LPC) on the TU campus. Jog-A-Thon This fundraising event promotes student participation in physical fitness. Each participating student and family is asked to obtain sponsorship from individuals outside of the school to support the event. The Jog-A-Thon takes place on a school day at the TU track. Parent-Teacher Institute Each fall, University School presents the annual Parent-Teacher Institute. The institute features nationally known speakers who present topics relevant to parenting and teaching gifted students. Winter Concert In December each year, the Winter Concert takes place at 10:30 a.m. on the last day of the fall semester. All students participate by singing and the 5th – 8th grade bands also perform. School is dismissed for the semester immediately following the concert, which is usually held at the Lorton Performance Center (LPC). 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa