Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > About > Strategic Plan Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Strategic Plan Educating Gifted Learners in the Innovation Era University School began in the spring of 1982 with the goal of developing a national model for the education of gifted and talented students. While our focus remains consistent with our founding principles, it is imperative for us to shift our educational approach to align ourselves with the opportunities and challenges our students will face in the 21st century. In this era of innovation, University School recognizes the need to adapt. A recent World Economic Forum report noted “the gap between the skills people learn and the skills people need is becoming more obvious, as traditional learning falls short of equipping students with the knowledge they need to thrive” (Gray; The Future of Jobs). University School believes that education must evolve in order to accommodate the needs of current society and an innovation economy. In response to these changing societal conditions, in 2018 University School set out to create a five-year strategic plan and designate priorities to drive our decisions and align with the University of Tulsa. The strategic planning committee incorporated input from school-wide teacher and parent surveys, as well as current leading research in the field of gifted education. The plan was approved in the Spring of 2019. Below are the four main objectives of the 2019-2024 strategic plan. Work is ongoing for each of these objectives. OBJECTIVE #1 Provide in-school support to meet the social and emotional needs of gifted students in a rapidly changing and diverse society. OBJECTIVE #2 Reorient academic and co-curricular (i.e., clubs, Camp Incredible, and student enrichment) programs to catalyze a school-wide culture of innovation, research, and creativity as the best means to prepare students for our increasingly knowledge-based economy. OBJECTIVE #3 Attract and retain high-quality, innovative faculty and staff who demonstrate a commitment to lifelong learning. OBJECTIVE #4 Raise awareness of our leadership in gifted education. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa