Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Employment Opportunities Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Employment Opportunities Thank you for your interest in University School! We are currently looking to fill the following positions: Position Title Clinical Instructor – Kindergarten Lead Teacher Job Description The Kindergarten lead teacher at the University School, a school for gifted children, works under the supervision of the classroom lead teacher and is responsible for providing a safe, wholesome, intellectually challenging, creative learning environment for students in their care and be both a creative leader and team player. The Kindergarten teacher will use multiple assessment methods to determine learning growth in reading. Additional responsibilities include communicating curriculum content to parents, working in the aftercare program, and keeping verbal contact with parents to convey individual student’s progress. Required Qualifications Education degree; experience working with young children; proficiency in reading assessment driven instruction; excellent classroom management skills; knowledgeable in using and generating multiple assessment methods; excellent oral and written communication skills; and ability to work cordially with colleagues and parents. Preferred Qualifications Education degree; experience working with young children; proficiency in reading assessment driven instruction; excellent classroom management skills; knowledgeable in using and generating multiple assessment methods; excellent oral and written communication skills; and ability to work cordially with colleagues and parents. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Training in gifted education is preferred. Physical Demands Physical Demands: The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Stamina for 8 hours of student instruction and supervision. Use of hands for repetitive motions, such as writing and typing. Standing/Walking: 3-6 hours/day. Sitting: 2-4 hours/day. Occasional bending, kneeling, squatting, climbing of stairs or ladders. Lifting/carrying: Up to 40 lbs. Occasional physical interaction with students, as provided by law and to ensure the physical safety of the student and/or others. Close vision (clear vision at 20 inches or less). Distance vision (clear vision at 20 feet or more). Peripheral vision (ability to observe an area that can be seen up and down or to the left and right while eyes are fixed on a given point). Speaking clearly enough to be able to be understood by others. Identifying and understanding the speech of another person. Emotional stability to work effectively under pressure and to keep all aspects of the job under control. Posting Detail Information Posting Number S256P Open Date 04/08/2022 Close Date Open Until Filled Yes Apply here! Position Title Clinical Instructor-Spanish Job Description The Clinical Instructor at University School, a school for gifted children, is responsible for providing a safe, wholesome, intellectually challenging, creative learning environment for students in their care. It is expected that all instructors at the University School be both creative leaders and team players. Responsibilities in addition to direct instruction include communicating curriculum content to parents and administration, as well as keeping regular verbal contact with parents and administration to convey each individual student’s progress. Specifically, Plans and implements curriculum for all University School students, first through 8th grade; Collaborates regularly with classroom teachers and other stakeholders; Maintains a classroom climate conducive to learning; Plans, writes, implements and posts weekly lesson plans; Makes assessment of incoming and prospective students; Maintains an orderly classroom; Exhibits patience and self-control Communicates effectively and with respect to all stakeholders no matter their age or station; Works a minimum 38 hours per week teaching in the classroom and works in the Extended Day Program; Attends staff meetings, departmental meetings, evening meetings, and other staff training as required; and Performs other duties as requested or assigned by Director or Assistant Director Required Qualifications Bachelor’s in Spanish, Education, Gifted Education or Secondary Education; 3 plus years of teaching experience with Oklahoma State Teaching Certificate in Spanish; excellent oral and written communication skills; ability to work in a team-teaching environment utilizing exceptional interpersonal skills; ability to adapt; ability to assess incoming students. Preferred Qualifications Background in AP or Pre-Ap Spanish strongly preferred. Training in gifted education or experience working with gifted and talented students is preferred. Physical Demands Minimal Physical Demands Posting Detail Information Posting Number S217P Open Date 02/10/2022 Close Date Open Until Filled Yes Apply here! EEO Statement EEO Statement Eeo Statement Summary The University of Tulsa seeks to recruit and retain talented students, faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. The University of Tulsa is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and encourages qualified candidates across all group demographics to apply. The University does not discriminate on the basis of personal status or group characteristic including, but not limited to race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, age, sex, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, ancestry, or marital status. The University of Tulsa is an Equal Opportunity Employer including Disability/ Veteran. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa