Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Support University School Support University School Funding the Future Funding the Future (FTF) is University School’s annual giving campaign. It helps bridge the gap between the school’s actual operational costs and the amount covered by tuition (approximately 80% of the annual needs of the school). FTF money provides teacher and staff development opportunities, additional curriculum materials, building maintenance, and special projects. The goal for FTF is for 100% of USchool families to contribute to the campaign. A high participation rate provides not only necessary funds, but also shows how committed our families are to supporting the school. High parental participation rates are viewed as a significant factor by grant-giving organizations when school officials seek funding for projects that require funds beyond typical school operating expenses. The impact made by our family of donors cannot be measured, nor can our appreciation for their generosity. Support from parents, grandparents, faculty, alumni and friends make it possible for University School to continue to provide an exceptional educational environment for gifted and talented students. DONATE TODAY Remember – 100% of your Funding the Future gift will be put to work immediately to support the mission of University School. Odyssey of the Mind teams trip to 2022 World Finals Both University School Odyssey of the Mind Teams have qualified for the 2022 World Finals to be held May 25-28th at Iowa State University! This is the first time University School has qualified to compete in the World competition. You may show your support of the USchool teams by either purchasing a $10 raffle ticket (two $100 cash prizes will be awarded on Friday, April 29) and/or by making a donation to help cover their travel costs and other trip expenses. Support OM teams TODAY We thank the following corporate sponsors for helping make this trip a reality: Diamond Level Sponsors Gold Level Sponsors Silver Level Sponsors Bronze Level Sponsors 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa