Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Alumni Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Alumni Our alumni continue to serve as the best example of the value of the educational experience provided at University School. The pictured group of graduates are Class of 2022 Seniors in High School and graduated from University School in 2018. NATIONAL MERIT SCHOLARSHIP HONORS Half of the Class of 2018 earned 2021-22 National Merit Semifinalists recognition. One-third of the Class of 2018 were recognized as 2021-22 National Merit FINALISTS. An average of twenty-five percent of our graduates have been awarded National Merit Scholarship Corporation recognition over the last 10 years. HIGH SCHOOL CHOICES University School graduates attend local public high schools and independent schools in Oklahoma and beyond. The students regularly enter high school with several high school course credits and secure placement in Honors and Advanced Placement classes. University School graduates have attend the following high schools and more over the past 10 years: Bishop Kelley High School Booker T. Washington H.S. Edison High School Cascia Hall Claremore High School Holland Hall Home School Jenks High School Metro Christian Academy St. Augustine’s Christian Tulsa School of Arts and Sciences Oklahoma School of Science and Math (OSSM) Olathe Northwest High School (Olathe, KS) Ronald Reagan High School (San Antonio, TX) COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY CHOICES University School graduates go on to attend some of the top colleges and universities in the nation. Below are some of the colleges and universities which USchool alumni have enrolled over the last 10 years: Belmont University Bryn Mawr College Carnegie Mellon University Case Western Reserve University The University of Colorado Chapman University Dartmouth College The University of Denver Duke University Emory University Fordham University Harvard University Indiana University The University of Kansas Loyola Marymount McMurry University The University of Missouri Mount Holyoke College Oklahoma State University The University of Oklahoma Puget Sound University Purdue University Rice University San Diego State Saint Louis University Southwestern University Stanford University Stetson University Swarthmore College Temple University Texas A & M University Texas Christian University Trinity College Tulsa Community College The University of Tulsa University of Southern California Vanderbilt University Washington University in St. Louis Williams College Worcester Polytechnic Institute Yale University 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa