Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Admission > Entrance Qualifications Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Entrance Qualifications Selection The task of selecting students for any gifted program is one of the most controversial issues in gifted education. Some programs emphasize selection according to achievement. Other programs emphasize potential. All selection is an inexact science with many uncontrolled variables. Selection for one gifted program in no way guarantees selection for another gifted program. High verbal abilities have been found to correlate with high intelligence. The instruments we use measure verbal, quantitative, perceptual and creative abilities. Professional recommendations, interviews, and parent inventories are also considered. Testing In order to be considered for admission, a student should be tested by a psychologist using the most recent version of either the WPPSI (Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence) or the WISC (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children). The WPPSI is used for younger children and the WISC for older students. We generally accept children who score in the 90th percentile or above if the psychologist and our admissions committee recommend placement in our school. When the test results and other information are received, the University Schools Admissions Committee reviews the separate sections of the tests, parent information forms and any other pertinent information before making a placement recommendation. We will then contact the parents with the decision made about the admission. Psychologists* If you would like to have your child tested, we recommend: Gina Kingsley/Dr. Ann Taylor 918-625-1491 Dr. Cleatta Shumate 918-936-4944 *Please call the psychologists directly for information about testing procedures and fees. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa