Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > About > Facilities Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Facilities School Building and Classrooms Our school building is located on the University of Tulsa campus north of 4th Place between College and Evanston Avenues. Completed in 1997, the two-story building contains classrooms for all grade levels and specialty classes. In addition to the regular classrooms, highlights include a large gymnasium with stage, library with more than 10,000 volumes, indoor play area for younger primary grades, five common areas with tables and comfortable seating, and paved and covered outdoor picnic areas. The building meets ADA accessibility guidelines. Playgrounds University School has two fenced playground areas with play structures. Gym Our gym includes an adjustable basketball goal, removable volleyball net and poles, and a stage for performances. Butterfly Garden Completed in the 1999-2000 school year, the Butterfly Garden is a joint project between University School and The University United Methodist Church. Parents, staff and students have spent many hours maintaining and improving the garden. In the summer of 2011, the garden underwent a major clean up to give it a fresh new start. TU Campus Connection University School utilizes its relationship with the University of Tulsa. Children may visit classes and interact with professors, staff and TU students, as well as attend exhibits and utilize university facilities. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa