Skip to main content × university of tulsa logo Search for: About Welcome to University School Mission, Core Values and Beliefs Strategic Plan Facts and Figures Facilities Employment Opportunities Contact Us Admission Entrance Qualifications Tours Inquire and Apply Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academic Overview Lower School Upper School Special Events Extended Day Summer Camps Parent Connection Parent Resources Community Service Support University School University School Alumni Alumni Search for: University of Tulsa Logo Search Open Menu Open Menu University School > Admission > Inquire and Apply Foundation for Academic Excellence starts Here Inquire and Apply The best way to learn more about University School and our commitment to excellence is to experience the environment first-hand, see our students in action, and visit with faculty about our outstanding curriculum. We invite you to schedule a tour to fully discover the value of an University school education. You may request an information packet be mailed to you by emailing your name and physical mailing address, child’s name and grade level to uschool-admin@utulsa.edu University School Information Packet How to apply: We appreciate your interest in University School. To have your student considered for admission to our program, please submit an Application for Admission. A complete application will include the following items, which you will be prompted to upload during the online application process: IQ test scores for your child (see Entrance Qualifications for details) Current photo of your child Current school transcript (or last two years of report cards) and most recent achievement testing results (required only for applicants to 3rd grade and above) Name and email address of a teacher who can complete a Teacher Observation Form about your child. This form is required if your student has attended any other preschool or school. If your child has not been enrolled in any other preschool/school, you will not need to provide this information. University School will email a link to the observation form directly to the teacher. $25 Application Fee If you prefer to fill out a paper application, please email debra-price@utulsa.edu to request the form. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 © 2022 The University of Tulsa