Events Give MYUNION Main Menu About Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Administration Justice Equity and Inclusion Board of Trustees Careers at Union Map & Contacts Institutional Information Admissions Why Union? Apply Today Introduce Yourself Admitted Students Why Union? Contact Admissions Application Procedures Financial Aid Dates & Deadlines International Applicants FAQ Academics Degree Programs Course Catalog Faculty Advanced Certificate Programs Degree Programs Continuing Education Registrar EDS at Union Faculty Field Education Ph.D. Students Burke Library Career Pathways Life at Union Life in the Big Apple Programs & Events Institutes & Initiatives Institutes & Initiatives Student Affairs Worship Student Orientation Field Education Student Senate & Caucuses Programs & Events Union Housing Campus Services Life in the Big Apple Alumni/ae Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Events Giving Alumni/ae Services Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Council Alumni/ae Events Union Collective Magazine Why Give to Union? Master of Arts in Social Justice Union launches a part-time, fully online degree program. Learn More Student Spotlight: James C. Jones Before Jones came to Union last fall, he was already making a name for himself in Mormon circles for his leadership fighting for and lifting up marginalized voices. Read More 184th Commencement Let's celebrate our graduates! Share photos with the #uts2022grad Read More Her Leadership Journey Union is very proud of alumna, Rev. Dr. LaKeesha Walrond who serves as President of New York Theological Seminary (NYTS). Read More Covid-19 Guidance For the Union Community Policies to support our staff & students Read More 1 2 3 4 5 WHY COME TO UNION? Union's campus is where faith and scholarship meet to reimagine the work of justice. Its customized curriculum, award-winning faculty, and urban setting provide an unparalleled atmosphere. Click to hear why others chose to enroll. ""I came to Union for its commitment to transforming society" " - Katrina, Master of Divinity NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: The Politics of Hope NEXT VIDEO: Faith in the Public Square NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Maintaining a Prophetic Voice in the Real World NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Opening Up New Possibilities NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: A Powerlessness that Compels Imagination NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: A Bible Shaped Amidst Suffering NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: A Ministry that Includes the World NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: The Weirdness of Being Human NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Staring Suffering Straight in the Face NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Without Plants There Can be No Religion NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Becoming Conscious of the Unconscious NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Helping People Go Deep NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Beyond Sunday and the Pulpit NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Vision for the Future of Creation NEXT VIDEO: Union Ideas: Changing the Golden Rule NEXT VIDEO: Coming to Union Union at a glance EDS at Union degree programs Life Long Learning Admissions The Union Difference World-Class Scholarship Union’s esteemed faculty members are experts in an ever-widening array of disciplines and faith traditions who share a deep commitment to both ground-breaking research as well as the mentorship of students. Faculty Directory Innovative Programs Union's Institutes & Initiatives advance social movements and provide seminarians with unique opportunities to transform classroom lessons into real practice as they work to create a more just world. Institutes & Initiatives Commitment to Diversity Christian, ecumenical, interreligious, world-engaged, broad in thought, and welcoming to all who venture in—Union values & celebrates the diversity of its students, faculty and staff. Meet Union Students Faith in Action Union understands that true ministry begins when the ideas espoused in classrooms and sanctuaries collide with the public square. See how Union responds to the world's most pressing events. Read more Union's Future Union is embarking on a multi-year campus renewal plan to improve our historic facility. Learn More Union Happenings & News Master of Arts in Social Justice (MASJ) Information Session As spring weather arrives, we wanted to let you know about several exciting opportunities to learn more about the fully... Learn More Jun 2 The Supreme Court’s Decision Is An Assault on Biblical Values News reports indicate that the Supreme Court’s conservative majority will soon strike down Roe v. Wade, clearing the way for draconian measures to ban abortion... Learn More May 4 In Solidarity with Synagogue Beth Israel Dearest friends, As we begin a new semester at Union next week, we do so with a profound sense of hope for what lies ahead... Learn More January 24 Spring 2022 Return to Campus COVID Update Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff, As you are no doubt aware, COVID-19 infection rates are quickly rising in New York, around the country, and throughout... Learn More December 22 Two Verdicts, No Justice: The story of two verdicts. The story of “race and justice” in America By Kelly Brown Douglas and Serene Jones Thursday, November 18th, Julius Jones was granted clemency and his life was spared execution for a murder to... Learn More November 22 Union Students and Faculty Participate in AAR/SBL 2021 With the American Academy of Religion 2021 conference and the Society of Biblical Literature 2021 annual meeting on the horizon, we want to highlight the... Learn More November 18 New Book from Dean Kelly Brown Douglas ’82, ’88 Resurrection Hope By Dean Kelly Brown Douglas How do we really know that God cares when Black people are still getting killed? How long do... Learn More November 18 Union Announces New Vice President for Communications and Marketing – Afsheen Shamsi Union Theological Seminary President Rev. Dr. Serene Jones today announced the appointment of Afsheen Shamsi to the position of Vice President of Communications and Marketing.... Learn More November 9 GET THE LATEST NEWS AND EVENTS IN YOUR INBOX 3041 Broadway at 121st Street, New York, NY 10027 (212) 662-7100 | online@uts.columbia.edu | admissions@utsnyc.edu Connect With Us Prospective Student Introduce Yourself Apply to Union Schedule a Tour Financial Aid Current Students Moodle Course Catalog Registrar Field Education Course Registration The Union Alumni/ae Network Events Update Your Contact Info Transcripts, Verifications, & Replacement Diplomas Create Your Alumni/ae Profile About Union News Map & Contacts Non-Discrimination Policy Careers at Union © 2022 Union Theological Seminary, All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Sitemap