Events Give MYUNION Main Menu About Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Administration Justice Equity and Inclusion Board of Trustees Careers at Union Map & Contacts Institutional Information Admissions Why Union? Apply Today Introduce Yourself Admitted Students Why Union? Contact Admissions Application Procedures Financial Aid Dates & Deadlines International Applicants FAQ Academics Degree Programs Course Catalog Faculty Advanced Certificate Programs Degree Programs Continuing Education Registrar EDS at Union Faculty Field Education Ph.D. Students Burke Library Career Pathways Life at Union Life in the Big Apple Programs & Events Institutes & Initiatives Institutes & Initiatives Student Affairs Worship Student Orientation Field Education Student Senate & Caucuses Programs & Events Union Housing Campus Services Life in the Big Apple Alumni/ae Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Events Giving Alumni/ae Services Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Council Alumni/ae Events Union Collective Magazine Why Give to Union? Advocacy & Wellness The Office of Student Affairs has responsibility for promoting the well-being of students at Union in collaboration with Student Life Assistants and the Director of Housing and Campus Services. These positions oversee the co-curricular and extracurricular programing of student activities at the Seminary to maintain a positive environment for living and learning. Appointments can be made with the Office of Student Affairs by emailing studentaffairs@uts.columbia.edu or by calling 212-280-1396. In this section you will find information regarding counseling and psychological services, disability services and general fitness information. RESIDENTIAL LIFE AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Student Life Assistants (SLAs) are available to provide peer support and medicate conflicts as they arise in the residential community. SLAs also develop community programming for residential and non residential students and serve as advocates and liaisons for residential and community issues. Student Life Assistants for the 2021-2022 Academic Year: Ana Lara al3987@utsnyc.edu Luke Estrada le2342@utsnyc.edu COLUMBIA HEALTH Columbia Health offers a broad range of on-campus and virtual services including routine and urgent medical visits, short term mental health counselling, sexual violence prevention and advocacy services and prevention oriented health programming. Columbia University Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) support the psychological and emotional well-being of students by providing counseling, consultation and crisis intervention. CPS offers short term individual counselling and referrals for longer term care. Union students are welcome to select a personal mental health clinician. Bios are available on line. You can see a list of all services at https://health.columbia.edu/content/counseling-and-psychological-services CPS is located in Lerner Hall 2920 Broadway, 5th and 8th floors. For appointments and 24/7 urgent care call 212-854-2878 Primary Medical Care Services are available for a wide variety of concern, including routine and urgent medical care, sexual and reproductive health, immunizations, and confidential HIV testing. You can see the full offerings at https://health.columbia.edu/services/primary-care Offices are located at John Jay Hall, 519 W 114th Street, 4th floor. For For appointments and 24/7 urgent care call 212-854-7426. COVID-19 RESOURCES Columbia Health offers COVID-19 testing in accordance NY State public health recommendations. If you are feeling sick, or believe you have come in contact with someone who is COVID-19 positive, you should call Columbia Health at 212-854-7426 for a screening appointment and further instructions. You can access a wide variety of health information about the COVID-19 virus, including social distancing guidelines, use of masks and other prevention recommendations, and quarantine and isolation guidelines. https://covid19.columbia.edu/content/about-covid-19 Alice! Health Promotion Services is a health education website supported by a team of Columbia Health research specialists, health care providers, writers and other professionals offering up to date information on a wide variety of priority health issues. https://health.columbia.edu/content/alice-health-promotion FITNESS CENTER Union is able to offer students, faculty, and staff access to athletic facilities at Columbia University. Memberships to Dodge Fitness Center, 3030 Broadway, are available by the semester or by the year. Membership to the Dodge Fitness Center also allows Union students to join Columbia Club Sports teams. For membership fee and detailed information on the Center call (212) 854-2546 or visit the website: https://perec.columbia.edu/ HEALTH RELATED EMERGENCY: 24/7 Columbia University Emergency Medical Services (CU-EMS is a New York State-certified, Basic Life Support (BLS) volunteer ambulance corps that provides pre-hospital emergency medical care, free of charge, to Columbia University’s Morningside Heights Campus, surrounding University-owned buildings and the surrounding area 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. St. Luke’s Hospital at 113th Street and Amsterdam is the nearest emergency room to Union’s campus and is open 24 hours a day. Ambulance service to St. Luke’s Hospital Emergency Room is available by dialing 911. SPIRITUAL FORMATION Seminary offers multiple settings to explore spirituality and practices that nurture the life of the spirit. Union’s Office of Student Affairs takes the lead in organizing programs that are relevant and transformational. Students, staff and faculty listen to the spirit and work together to provide diverse and inclusive spiritual resources. Please click here to learn more about the Spritcare Team and the services they provide. DISABILITY SERVICES Union admits students regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religious affiliation, national or ethnic origin, gender identities and expressions or disability to all the rights, privileges and programs generally accorded or made available to students at the seminary. It does not discriminate on the basis of any of these in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs or other programs administered by the seminary. Therefore, seminary policy ensures that no qualified student with a disability is subjected to discrimination. Students with disabilities are afforded full participation in the seminary’s programs and activities. In response to a request made by a qualified student with a documented disability, the seminary will provide health and disability-related services including reasonable academic accommodations in order to ensure students with disabilities have equal opportunity to attain the same quality of education and be assessed for course content and evaluated, in the same manner as students without disabilities. Current Students: Click here for more information about Union’s Disability Services Policy and to access the Union Disability Services Request Form. If you would like more information about Disability Services at Union, please contact the Office of Student Affairs at studentaffairs@uts.columbia.edu. COLUMBIA-AETNA STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE Union students are required to carry adequate insurance as a condition of student enrollment and are also required to pay the Columbia Health Service Program Fee. For more detailed information about the Columbia University Student Health Plans, please see this helpful site from Aetna. Current students can learn more about Union’s insurance requirements here. Immunization forms are due for new students upon acceptance. Please download the Immunization Form here. TITLE IX SUPPORT & ASSISTANCE To view Union Theological Seminary Title IX Policy, click here*. *Revised August 2020 About Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Statement on Diversity Strategic Plan Union News Public Affairs Union Collective Magazine Videos Administration Justice Equity and Inclusion Board of Trustees Careers at Union Map & Contacts Rent Space at Union Landmark Guestrooms Institutional Information Non-Discrimination Policy Data Classification Guidelines Renewing Union’s Campus Facilities FAQ Admissions Admitted Students Why Union? Contact Admissions Application Procedures International Applicants Financial Aid COVID-19 Emergency Fund Estimated Cost of Attendance Satisfactory Academic Progress Private Loan Disclosure Return of Title IV Funds (R2T4) The Trinity Union Fellows Program Dates & Deadlines International Applicants FAQ Academics Advanced Certificate Programs Degree Programs Master of Divinity Master of Arts in Religion Master of Arts in Social Justice Master of Sacred Theology Master of Divinity & Social Work Joint Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy Continuing Education Registrar Academic Calendar Academic Catalog & Policies Academic Resources Course Registration & Grades Faculty & Advisor Resources FERPA, Facts, & Figures Transcripts, Verifications, & Replacement Diplomas Tuition & Fees EDS at Union Faculty Faculty Emeriti/ae Field Education Ph.D. Students Burke Library Career Pathways Ordination Process by Denomination Life at Union Institutes & Initiatives Center for Earth Ethics Center for Community Engagement and Social Justice The Insight Project Encore Transition Program Meditations on Love, Fear, Purpose & Death ISJIE Kairos Center RISE Together VISION Student Affairs Advocacy & Wellness Career Services International Students Spirituality Resources Worship Student Orientation Orientation Video Library Field Education Clinical Pastoral Education Hybrid FE-CPE Program Field Education Profiles Field Education FAQ Student Senate & Caucuses Programs & Events Women of Spirit Lecture Mama Leo Latinx Lecture Series Union Medal Union Housing Application Process & FAQ Residence Halls Housing Handbook Campus Services Life in the Big Apple Alumni/ae Alumni/ae Services Alumni/ae Profiles Create Your Alumni/ae Profile Alumni/ae Council Alumni/ae Events Union at Home Fesitval ReUnion Trailblazers Unitas Awards Union Collective Magazine Union Collective | Spring 2021 Why Give to Union? Methods of Giving Make a Gift Planned Giving Contact StudentAffairs@uts.columbia.edu Room AD 108 | 212-280-1555 Life in the Big Apple Programs & Events Institutes & Initiatives GET THE LATEST NEWS AND EVENTS IN YOUR INBOX 3041 Broadway at 121st Street, New York, NY 10027 (212) 662-7100 | online@uts.columbia.edu | admissions@utsnyc.edu Connect With Us Prospective Student Introduce Yourself Apply to Union Schedule a Tour Financial Aid Current Students Moodle Course Catalog Registrar Field Education Course Registration The Union Alumni/ae Network Events Update Your Contact Info Transcripts, Verifications, & Replacement Diplomas Create Your Alumni/ae Profile About Union News Map & Contacts Non-Discrimination Policy Careers at Union © 2022 Union Theological Seminary, All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Sitemap