Events Give MYUNION Main Menu About Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Union News Administration Justice Equity and Inclusion Board of Trustees Careers at Union Map & Contacts Institutional Information Admissions Why Union? Apply Today Introduce Yourself Admitted Students Why Union? Contact Admissions Application Procedures Financial Aid Dates & Deadlines International Applicants FAQ Academics Degree Programs Course Catalog Faculty Advanced Certificate Programs Degree Programs Continuing Education Registrar EDS at Union Faculty Field Education Ph.D. Students Burke Library Career Pathways Life at Union Life in the Big Apple Programs & Events Institutes & Initiatives Institutes & Initiatives Student Affairs Worship Student Orientation Field Education Student Senate & Caucuses Programs & Events Union Housing Campus Services Life in the Big Apple Alumni/ae Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Events Giving Alumni/ae Services Alumni/ae Profiles Alumni/ae Council Alumni/ae Events Union Collective Magazine Why Give to Union? Student Affairs The Office of Student Affairs is committed to fostering a safe and supportive campus culture that reflects and advances the tradition of moral and intellectual development pioneered by Union’s founders. We seek to create—for and with our students—an intentional community that sets the highest standards of academic, social, moral, and spiritual excellence. Ultimately, the most important thing we do is advocate for our students during their time at seminary. We are often the best place to go when you’re not sure what to do or whom to ask. Learn more about the supportive services provided by the Office of Student Affairs: Advocacy & Wellness Union students enjoy the support of a wide range of health resources, including medical, counselling and disability services, health promotion resources, and access to comprehensive insurance coverage. Learn More Career Services Union provides comprehensive career coaching to all current students and alumni. Services include individual career counselling, resume review and a variety of workshops to prepare you to transition from Union, or from your current position, especially during these uncertain times. Learn More Student Organizations Union boasts a rich array of student organizations, which are designed to meet the needs and address the concerns of a variety of student demographics and interests. Learn more International Students Once an international student has been accepted to attend Union, the Office of Student Affairs will work with them through the visa, travel, financial, and orientation process. Learn more Need More Information? The Office of Student Affairs offers an array of resources designed to enhance both the quality of life and the academic success of all Union students. More information can be found by consulting the Student Handbook. Download the Student Handbook About Union at a Glance Mission & Vision Statement on Diversity Strategic Plan Union News Public Affairs Union Collective Magazine Videos Administration Justice Equity and Inclusion Board of Trustees Careers at Union Map & Contacts Rent Space at Union Landmark Guestrooms Institutional Information Non-Discrimination Policy Data Classification Guidelines Renewing Union’s Campus Facilities FAQ Admissions Admitted Students Why Union? Contact Admissions Application Procedures International Applicants Financial Aid COVID-19 Emergency Fund Estimated Cost of Attendance Satisfactory Academic Progress Private Loan Disclosure Return of Title IV Funds (R2T4) The Trinity Union Fellows Program Dates & Deadlines International Applicants FAQ Academics Advanced Certificate Programs Degree Programs Master of Divinity Master of Arts in Religion Master of Arts in Social Justice Master of Sacred Theology Master of Divinity & Social Work Joint Degree Programs Doctor of Philosophy Continuing Education Registrar Academic Calendar Academic Catalog & Policies Academic Resources Course Registration & Grades Faculty & Advisor Resources FERPA, Facts, & Figures Transcripts, Verifications, & Replacement Diplomas Tuition & Fees EDS at Union Faculty Faculty Emeriti/ae Field Education Ph.D. Students Burke Library Career Pathways Ordination Process by Denomination Life at Union Institutes & Initiatives Center for Earth Ethics Center for Community Engagement and Social Justice The Insight Project Encore Transition Program Meditations on Love, Fear, Purpose & Death ISJIE Kairos Center RISE Together VISION Student Affairs Advocacy & Wellness Career Services International Students Spirituality Resources Worship Student Orientation Orientation Video Library Field Education Clinical Pastoral Education Hybrid FE-CPE Program Field Education Profiles Field Education FAQ Student Senate & Caucuses Programs & Events Women of Spirit Lecture Mama Leo Latinx Lecture Series Union Medal Union Housing Application Process & FAQ Residence Halls Housing Handbook Campus Services Life in the Big Apple Alumni/ae Alumni/ae Services Alumni/ae Profiles Create Your Alumni/ae Profile Alumni/ae Council Alumni/ae Events Union at Home Fesitval ReUnion Trailblazers Unitas Awards Union Collective Magazine Union Collective | Spring 2021 Why Give to Union? Methods of Giving Make a Gift Planned Giving Contact StudentAffairs@uts.columbia.edu Room AD 108 | 212-280-1555 Attending an upcoming conference? Union offers travel grants to support current students who have been selected to present a paper or project at a conference related to their course of study. Learn More GET THE LATEST NEWS AND EVENTS IN YOUR INBOX 3041 Broadway at 121st Street, New York, NY 10027 (212) 662-7100 | online@uts.columbia.edu | admissions@utsnyc.edu Connect With Us Prospective Student Introduce Yourself Apply to Union Schedule a Tour Financial Aid Current Students Moodle Course Catalog Registrar Field Education Course Registration The Union Alumni/ae Network Events Update Your Contact Info Transcripts, Verifications, & Replacement Diplomas Create Your Alumni/ae Profile About Union News Map & Contacts Non-Discrimination Policy Careers at Union © 2022 Union Theological Seminary, All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Sitemap