Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Policies FINANCIAL AID Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Withdrawal When you provide your withdrawal notice to your academic advisor, you are instructed to contact the offices of Housing, Bursar, and Student Financial Services regarding any expenses you may have incurred. If you withdraw after the 60% point of the semester and all your federal financial aid has credited toward your student account, typically no changes to your aid will occur. However, if you withdraw before the 60% point of the semester or if all your federal financial aid is not processed by the time you withdraw, your aid may be adjusted. Nonattendance does not constitute withdrawal. If enrolled in classes and the student chooses not to attend, it is the student’s responsibility to withdraw from those enrolled classes to avoid tuition and fee charges. The Return of Funds sections below provide more specific information concerning TU’s tuition refund policy and the Return of Title IV Funds requirements. If you are thinking about withdrawing during a semester, it is important to meet with your Financial Aid Counselor so they can review your aid status with you. Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal regulations require that all recipients of federal student financial assistance make satisfactory academic progress toward a degree or eligible certificate. Students applying for assistance through the Federal Pell Grant, Federal SEOG, Federal Work Study, Teach Grant, Oklahoma Tuition Aid Grant (OTAG), Oklahoma Tuition Equalization Grant (OTEG), Oklahoma’s Promise, Direct Subsidized Loan, Direct Unsubsidized Loan, Direct Parent PLUS Loan and Direct Graduate PLUS loan programs must meet THREE requirements to maintain their financial aid eligibility at TU. TU Refund Policy The University of Tulsa’s refund policy refers to the amount owed by a student for various categories of university charges when a student withdraws, drops out, or is expelled within a given time frame within a term. The policy may change without notice. Students withdrawing during a semester at The University of Tulsa will receive a refund based on the following calculations. Fall or Spring Term Tuition Refund Up through 1st day of classes 100% Day 2 through end of 1st week 90% Weeks 2 and 3 50% Weeks 4 through 7 25% Remainder of semester 0% Summer Term Tuition Refund Up through 1st day of classes 100% Day 2 through day 4 80% Day 5 through day 7 50% Day 8 through day 10 25% Remainder of semester 0% Please review the The Office of the Bursar’s Refund Policy for more information on refunds. Return of Title IV Funds Federal Financial Aid recipients withdrawing from all classes during a semester will have their Title IV funds returned to the federal programs according to federal guidelines. TU will first determine the percentage of the semester the student completed. The percentage completed will be the number of days attended divided by the number of days in the semester. If the percentage completed is 60% or less, the return of funds calculation will be used. If the student has completed 60% or less of the semester, TU will apply the calculated completed percentage to the total awarded Title IV aid for which the student established eligibility before withdrawing. This calculation will be the earned aid. The earned aid will be subtracted from the total disbursed aid to determine the amount of unearned aid to be returned to the federal Title IV programs. TU will return the unearned aid to the Title IV programs. Title IV Return of Funds Distribution Policy For all students receiving federal Title IV funds, returns are distributed back to the programs in the following order up to the full amount received from each program for the term. Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loan Subsidized Federal Stafford Loan Federal Grad PLUS Loan Federal Parent PLUS Loan Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) TEACH Sample return of funds calculations are available for review in the Office of Student Financial Services, Collins Hall. Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal regulations require that all recipients of federal student financial assistance make satisfactory academic progress toward a degree or eligible certificate. Students applying for assistance through the Federal Pell Grant, Federal SEOG, Federal Work Study, Teach Grant, Oklahoma Tuition Aid Grant (OTAG), Oklahoma Tuition Equalization Grant (OTEG), Oklahoma’s Promise, Direct Subsidized Loan, Direct Unsubsidized Loan, Direct Parent PLUS Loan and Direct Graduate PLUS loan programs must meet THREE requirements to maintain their financial aid eligibility at TU: Qualitative: Students must meet a required minimum cumulative grade point average. Quantitative: Students are required to complete (pass) a minimum 67% of hours they attempt. Maximum Time Frame: Students must complete their degree within a timely manner. These three requirements are summarized in the following charts. Failure to meet ALL of these minimum academic standards will result in the loss of federal financial aid eligibility. Students are expected to know, based on this Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy what their status is, TU breaks it down as follows: Satisfactory, Probationary, and Unsatisfactory. Satisfactory academic progress is reviewed at the end of each semester once grades have been posted to the academic transcript. Qualitative: Grade Point Average Requirement – Each student must meet a required minimum cumulative grade point average to remain eligible for federal student aid. Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Requirements Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students Total Hours Attempted from all Institutions All Hours All Hours All Hours Minimum Cumulative GPA Requirements 2.00 GPA 3.00 GPA 2.00 GPA Quantitative: Satisfactory Completion of Semester Hours Requirement. Students must also successfully complete and pass 67% of all courses they attempt. Grades of A, B, C, D, F, P, I, W and MG are all considered attempted hours. All transfer and repeat hours are included in this calculation. Courses dropped within the first three weeks of the semester will not be included in the calculation. Please refer to the Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Standard Charts for Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students, PhD Students and Law Students. Percentage of cumulative attempted hours a student must complete to remain eligible for federal student aid. Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students Students must successfully complete: 67% of attempted hours 67% of attempted hours 67% of attempted hours Maximum Time Frame for Degree Completion: Students must complete their degree program within an allotted timeframe to remain eligible for federal financial aid. The chart below indicates the timeframe in which a degree must be acquired. Be aware that hour limits are cumulative; therefore, all accepted hours from all institutions attended will be included, even if a student did not receive federal student aid. Student Financial Services recommends that students contact their academic advisor to ensure they are taking the courses necessary to complete their degree. For federal financial aid purposes grades of A, B, C, D, F, P, I, W and MG are all considered in the attempted hours. Courses dropped within the first three weeks of the semester will not be included in the attempted hours. All transfer and repeat hours are included in this calculation. Once students reach their maximum timeframe (150% of the published length of the program) for their specified degree, they are no longer eligible for federal student aid. If there are extenuating circumstances that prevented acceptable progress, students may request an extension of eligibility by submitting a petition to Student Financial Services. All petitions for federal financial aid reinstatement should be received no later than the first day of class in the semester the suspension takes effect. Attempted Hours Allowed For Earning a Degree: Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Ph.D. Students Law Students 150% of the published length of the degree program 186 hours – 1st Bachelor’s 54 hours – 1st Master’s 135 hours – Ph.D. 132 hours - Law Repeated Coursework Students may receive federal financial aid consideration to repeat a previously passed course once. Student may repeat failed courses until they have attained a passing grade. An “Incomplete” grade (I) that remains on the academic record at the time satisfactory academic progress is reviewed will be treated as not completed, but the attempted hours will be counted. Upon completion of the Incomplete (I) course, the grade and course will be given due credit in future consideration. *Please note: Satisfactory Academic Progress with a Probationary status and Unsatisfactory status is separate from Academic Probation and Academic Suspension. Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Evaluation Satisfactory Academic Progress is evaluated at the conclusion of each academic semester after grades have been posted. All attempted and transfer hours are counted during this evaluation. Courses dropped within the first three weeks of the semester will not be included in the SAP evaluation. Satisfactory – students that are enrolled in an eligible program, in compliance with satisfactory academic progress and receiving federal aid. Probationary – students are placed on Financial Aid Probation if they are not meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy (SAP). During this probationary status, financial aid eligibility and payment of funds will be continued throughout the Financial Aid Probationary period. Note: A Probationary Status is not given to students regarding maximum time frame, it is the student’s responsibility to know how many hours they have attempted and where they stand. Students that have been placed on Financial Aid Probation may be removed from that status and return to Satisfactory by meeting the completion rate and/or cumulative grade point average requirements as set forth in the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy by the end of the Financial Aid Probationary term. A student who returns to good standing after the Financial Aid Probationary period and then does not meet SAP at the end of the next term, can be placed on Financial Aid Probation again. However, a student cannot be placed on a Financial Aid Probationary status for consecutive terms. Unsatisfactory – will be required for students who fail to meet either requirements 1 and 2 at the conclusion of their Financial Aid Probationary Period. Students placed on Financial Aid Unsatisfactory status have had consecutive terms of SAP non-compliance. Students cannot receive funds from the federal aid programs listed above while on Unsatisfactory status. The Financial Aid Officer will determine if the Financial Aid Unsatisfactory status can be appealed. Students will be allowed to appeal their first status of unsatisfactory and if approved, will be put on Financial Aid Probation. Financial Aid Probation – is assigned to students whose status was Unsatisfactory, appealed and have received an appeal approval. The status of Probationary is given for the next period of enrollment to demonstrate satisfactory academic progress. The student will receive an approval letter along with a list of conditions that must be performed for reinstatement of federal financial aid for the upcoming semester. Students can be placed on Financial Aid Probation for one payment period per appeal at The University of Tulsa. The student must comply with the completion and grade point average requirements by the end of the semester. After grades for the semester are posted to the student academic transcript, Student Financial Services will review the academic performance of the student to determine if the satisfactory academic progress requirements are met. If the student meets the SAP requirements at the completion of the semester, federal financial aid is continued for future semesters. If the student cannot mathematically achieve SAP standards in one payment period, an academic plan will be required. Financial Aid Academic Plan – Probationary is the status assigned to students if they were originally Unsatisfactory, appealed and have received an appeal approval but cannot achieve SAP standards within one payment period. Students in this category must follow an individually designed Academic Plan developed by the Academic Advisor to ensure achievement of satisfactory academic progress standards over an assigned period of time. Students remain eligible for federal aid as long as the conditions of the Academic Plan are met. Rules are applied uniformly to all students whether or not aid has been received previously. Financial Aid Appeal Process A student with extenuating circumstances may appeal an Unsatisfactory status by submitting a Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal form to Student Financial Services within two weeks of the date of the letter of suspension. Appeals must explain in detail why the student failed to meet the minimum academic standards, what extenuating circumstances caused the failure and how the situation has since improved. Examples of extenuating circumstances include, but are not limited to, illness, medical issues with immediate family members or a death in the family. Personal or financial issues with family, friends, or roommates are not considered extenuating circumstances. The Financial Aid Appeals Committee will evaluate all documentation submitted and the student’s appeal will be approved or denied. The results of the appeal will be emailed to the student’s TU email account within approximately ten working days from the submission date. If the appeal is denied, the student is responsible for paying for their own educational costs until the student improves his/her scholastic record to meet the minimum standards of academic progress. Students who were denied due to maximum time frame are responsible for paying for their own educational costs for the remainder of their degree program. If the appeal is approved, the student will either be: Placed on Financial Aid Probation for one semester only, or Placed on an Academic Plan designed for completion rate and/or cumulative grade point average improvements until the standards of the SAP policy are met, not to exceed one year from the date of the Academic Plan. The student’s approval letter will explain all requirements that must be met during his/her probationary period to continue to receive financial aid. Removal from the Status of Unsatisfactory Without Appealing To re-establish federal financial aid eligibility without completing the appeal process noted above, students must meet all the criteria listed in the Student Financial Services Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy. A student classified as Unsatisfactory can re-establish eligibility by meeting the standards of the SAP Policy by achieving a completion rate of 67% and a required minimum cumulative grade point average without federal and/or state financial aid assistance. Changing Majors Students who change majors should contact Student Financial Services regarding how this will impact the satisfactory academic progress for federal financial aid. Study Abroad or Consortium Classes Any student who has completed a semester with study abroad or has a consortium agreement as a visiting student with another college or university must wait until the study abroad/visiting student grades have been submitted to TU to determine satisfactory academic progress. The student cannot receive federal financial aid for the semester following the study abroad/visiting student semester until the grades are received from the college or university in which the student was enrolled as a study abroad/visiting student and posted to the student’s TU academic transcript. If you are a Presidential Scholar with no federal financial aid, your next semester’s funds will not disburse until academic transcripts have been received from the study abroad/visiting student program. All Presidential Scholars must complete at least twelve (12) credit hours per semester with a minimum 3.25 cumulative GPA. After study abroad/visiting student grades are posted to the student’s TU academic transcript, eligibility for Presidential Scholar funding will be determined. Changing from Undergraduate to Master’s or from Master’s to Doctoral Programs If the student is beginning a new degree level, satisfactory academic progress begins in a clear status for the new program. Students Who Have Been Out of Attendance for Over a Year The University of Tulsa reviews satisfactory academic progress each payment period. If the student was not making satisfactory academic progress when last enrolled, provided it was more than a year ago, the student can be placed on Financial Aid Probation for the first payment period. Part-Time Students If the student receives part-time federal financial aid, the required hours completed for satisfactory academic progress will be reduced proportionately. Transfer Hours Transfer hours that are accepted by TU and are applied toward the student’s current program, will be included as both attempted and completed hours. Audit Courses Grades of audit (AU) are not counted in the total hours attempted for any semester or as successful completion of the course. Students cannot receive federal financial aid for audit courses. Independent Courses Independent courses may count toward successful completion of hours attempted if they are completed by the last day of the semester. For information about eligibility and payment of federal financial aid for this type of course, please contact Student Financial Services. Leave of Absence If an academic Leave of Absence (LOA) is granted, the student’s Title IV funding will be evaluated the same as any student who completely withdraws from the University of Tulsa and the Return to Title IV Funds rules will be followed, as applicable. Student Responsibility Students are held responsible for reading and understanding the Satisfactory Academic Progress eligibility requirements and knowing their status at the end of each semester. For questions, contact Student Financial Services at (918) 631-2670. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT