Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sorority & Fraternity Life / Greek Terminology Greek Terminology TU Greek Life https://youtu.be/NuDp7dUCZTk NPHC Chapters NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Independent Greek Council Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Active – Student who is currently enrolled in college, has completed their membership orientation process, and has been through the initiation ceremony (i.e., a fully initiated member of a fraternity or sorority). Alumnus (Alumna) – An initiated member who is no longer an undergraduate student. Badge – The pin of an initiated member. Bid – A formal, written invitation to join a sorority or fraternity. Bid Day – The last part of recruitment when new members accept their bids and officially join their new organizations. Big – Short for big sister or big brother; an active member who serves as a mentor for newer members. Brother – A term used by active fraternity members when referring to one another. Call/Chant – A vocal sound (sometimes high-pitched) used by members of the NPHC. Chapter – A local group of members officially chartered and recognized at a given college or university of a national sorority or fraternity. Continuous Open Bidding (COB) – Panhellenic sororities’ term for ongoing, informal recruitment. Chapters participate in COB if they do not have more than 55 members at any time during the academic year following formal recruitment. Crossing – The formal end (specific date/time) to the intake process into an NPHC fraternity/sorority whereby membership is fully conferred. Formal Recruitment – A period of time set aside by the Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic Council for meeting and recruiting potential members. This period of time lasts for three days and generally occurs the weekend after classes begin. Formerly referred to as rush. Founder – One who originates or establishes a fraternity or sorority. Fraternity – A Greek Letter society of individuals living within the bonds of ritual, brotherhood/sisterhood and common goals. Women’s fraternities are often referred to sororities. Graduate Member – Term used to describe a member of an NPHC organization who has either graduated from college, or completed the alumni-status process with their organization. Members of Greek chapters possess an exclusive, lifetime membership to their organization. Greeks – A member of a sorority or fraternity. Greek Week – An annual celebration in which chapters participate in educational, social and service events. It is a time for all Greek organizations to unify. Hazing – While TU and the state of Oklahoma have a legal definition of hazing, in general it includes any action, participated in voluntarily or involuntarily, by any member of an organization that causes or is likely to cause physical, mental or emotional harm. House – A chapter’s living or meeting facility. Never used as a substitute word for chapter (i.e., a man or woman joins a chapter, not a house). Informational – A formal presentation made by a NPHC fraternity or sorority to students interested in becoming a member of that organization. Initiation – The formal ceremony that marks the transition from new member to full membership. Intake – The process by which NPHC chapters recruit, inform and initiate new members. Interfraternity Council (IFC) – The governing body of the five nationally recognized IFC fraternities that are part of the national Interfraternity Conference. Legacy – A potential member of a sorority or fraternity whose parent, grandparent or sister/brother is an alumna/alumnus of the same sorority or fraternity. Line – The new member class of a NPHC chapter. Little – Short for little sister or little brother; a newer member who is mentored by an older member of the organization. Member – Someone who has been initiated into a fraternity or sorority chapter. National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) – The governing body for 26 national and international sororities and female fraternities, six of which are active and operate on TU’s campus. North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) – The governing body for 66 national and international fraternal organizations, five of which are active and operate on TU’s campus. National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) – The governing council for nine historically African American fraternities and sororities, four of which are currently active on TU’s campus. Nationals – A term referring to the central organization of a given sorority or fraternity. Neophyte – A newly initiated NPHC fraternity or sorority member, though this term is not used by all organizations. New Member/Associate Member – One who has accepted a bid from a sorority or fraternity, but who has not yet been initiated. Previously referred to as a pledge. New Member Educator – The chapter officer who oversees the development of new members and prepares them for initiation. New Member Program – The period of learning about fraternity and sorority life prior to initiation. In addition to learning the history of the organization, new members may attend presentations on topics such as study skills, acquaintance rape, substance abuse and other important issues. Panhellenic Council (Panhellenic or PHC) – The governing council of six national sororities on campus recognized by the National Panhellenic Council (NPC). Panhellenic includes representatives from each campus sorority, an adviser and an executive board. Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) – The governing council of the nine historically African American sororities and fraternities on campus recognized by the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC). Pan-Hellenic includes representatives from each of these sororities and fraternities, an adviser and an executive board. Pari – Clothing and other items with NPHC letters and emblems signifying one’s membership in a specific NPHC chapter. Philanthropy – A charitable organization that an individual chapter supports. Pin/Badge – A piece of jewelry worn to signify status of membership, office or other designation. Pin Attire – The attire traditionally worn when wearing a chapter pin or badge. Examples of pin attire include clothing that would be appropriate to wear to church or a nice dinner. Potential New Member (PNM) – The term used to describe a man or woman interested in seeking membership in an IFC or Panhellenic organization. PNMs were previously called rushees. Preference Party – The final invitational parties during sorority formal recruitment that help potential new members make their final decisions regarding their preferred groups. Preferential Bidding – The process of mutual selection between Panhellenic sororities and potential new members. Probate Show – The introduction of new members of a NPHC chapter to the Greek and campus communities. Quota – The number of new members that each PHC chapter may extend a bid during formal recruitment. Rec – A recommendation for a potential member written by a member of a national/international Greek organization. Recruitment Booklet – The primary promotion and information source for incoming students about fraternities and sororities at TU. Recruitment Counselor (RC) – A woman who is available during recruitment and willing to answer questions about the sororities. As a representative of Panhellenic, this woman has disaffiliated herself from her sorority to objectively assist potential members during the recruitment period. Recruitment Guidelines – Guidelines set forth by the Interfraternity Council to ensure a fair and stress-free recruitment process. Recruitment Task Force (RTF) – A man who is available during recruitment and willing to answer questions about the fraternities. As a representative of IFC, this man has disaffiliated himself from his fraternity to objectively assist potential members during the recruitment period. Ritual – The activity by which a sorority or fraternity brings into membership its new members who have met initiation requirements; these are traditionally secret ceremonies. Rush – This term is no longer used. See the Formal Recruitment entry. Silence – A period of time when conversation and contact between potential new members and Panhellenic sorority active members and alumnae are strictly limited by recruitment guidelines. Sister – A term used by sorority women when referring to one another. Soror – An initiated member of a NPHC sorority. Sorority – A Greek Letter society for women living within the bonds of sisterhood, ritual and common goals. Stroll/Step Show – A line dance by members of NPHC Greek organizations (usually at a party or step show). Each year, TU hosts “Steppin’ Outside the Lines,” a step show that brings together the NPHC, PHC and IFC chapters to help promote Greek unity. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT