Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Student Organizations Search by Degree Name 1 on 1 Basketball (Spring) 1 on 1 Basketball (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. 2 Pitch Softball (Spring) 2 Pitch Softball (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. 3 on 3 Basketball (Fall) 3 on 3 Basketball (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. 4×4 Sand Volleyball (Fall) 4×4 Sand Volleyball (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Academic Team Academic Team Academic Team provides students with the opportunity to test their knowledge in a variety of areas while taking part in an enjoyable competition. African Student Association African Student Association The African Student Association at the University of Tulsa is an organization formed to foster a relationship between the African students and the University community. The organization promotes African culture and educates the University of Tulsa community through social and community events. African Student Association (ASA) African Student Association (ASA) The African Student Association at The University of Tulsa is an organization formed to foster a relationship between the African students and the University community. The organization promotes African culture and educates the University of Tulsa community through social and community events. Alpha Epsilon Delta Alpha Epsilon Delta Alpha Epsilon Delta is the National Health Preprofessional Honor Society dedicated to the encouragement and recognition of excellence in preprofessional health scholarship. Our Society welcomes all students engaged in the pursuit of a professional development, provides a forum for students with common interests and extends a program of service to benefit the college/university community. Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority (AKA) Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority (AKA) Alpha Kappa Alpha (AKA) is a part of the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC). The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is the governing council for nine historically African American fraternities and sororities. Visit Greek Life for more information. Alpha Kappa Delta Alpha Kappa Delta Alpha Kappa Delta (AKD) is the International Sociology Honor Society. The purpose of Alpha Kappa Delta is to seek to acknowledge and promote excellence in the scholarship in the study of sociology, the research of social problems, and such other social and intellectual activities as will lead to improvement in the human condition. Alpha Phi Omega Alpha Phi Omega Under the guiding principles of leadership, friendship, and service, Alpha Phi Omega provides service to the community by donating time and effort to various organizations and causes. This is known as a growing service fraternity. Alpha Psi Omega (APO) Alpha Psi Omega (APO) Alpha Psi Omega is a national theatre honors organization, with members across the nation. We provide students interested in theatre, regardless of whether it is their major/minor or just a hobby, with opportunities to participate in theatrical events outside of the mainstage productions produced by the university. Such events include a 24-hour play festival, where we write, rehearse, and produce a series of short one-act plays in the span of 24 hours, and a miscast cabaret, where students have the opportunity to perform songs from musicals for a role they wouldn’t normally be given the opportunity to play. Joining also gives students access to a network of upperclassmen and alumni who are active in theatre who they can turn to for advice about theatre, school, and life. We don’t have any social media accounts but we do have a GroupMe chat. Students can email the president or the organization with their phone number to join it. American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) We are the official student chapter of AAPG at TU. The chapter’s mission is to provide inspiration and encouragement for students who are pursuing academic, research, and professional interests in petroleum geology and other aspects of geosciences. Since its founding in 1917, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists has been a pillar of the worldwide scientific community. The original purpose of AAPG, to foster scientific research, to advance the science of geology, to promote technology, and to inspire high professional conduct, still guides the Association today. AAPG also participates in community service events such as TU Service day and STEM fairs to educate children and help them find a passion for engineering and science. The chapter’s mission is to provide inspiration and encouragement for students in the university who are pursuing academic, research, professional and/or general (extracurricular) interests in geosciences especially petroleum geology. Our chapter has two main goals: 1) to provide students education and experience in areas pertaining to geosciences, and 2) to engage with the public through community outreach. American Chemical Society Student Affiliates (ACS) American Chemical Society Student Affiliates (ACS) This organization is TU’s student-affiliate chapter of the American Chemical Society, an organization that fosters camaraderie among students and provides opportunities to attend scientific meetings, present research papers, visit local industrial plants and laboratories, and connect with established scientists. The chapter also collaborates with the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry to host an annual program of national speakers. All Chemistry and Biochemistry students here at the University of Tulsa are members of ACS. We also like to celebrate the holidays and have other various functions throughout the year! If you are interested in being a member of ACS, feel free to contact the president for more details! American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) Why join national AIChE? In such a competitive world, professional support to guide you on your journey and help you with your career is crucial. AIChE is the global home for chemical engineers. Opportunities for members include: Develop leadership skills, especially if you are an officer Gain technical knowledge: you can stay current with the latest technologies. The SAChE certification program is offered free to the members and prepares you for the workforce. Build your network: connect with industry experts, young professionals etc Scholarships and Awards Exclusive Member Savings For more information, please go to the national AIChE website. To become a member, please visit : www.aiche.org/studentmembership. This membership automatically makes you a TU Chapter member. In addition, the TU Chapter of AIChE offers the following: Lunch and Learns, usually on Wednesdays during lunchtime where industry experts come and talks to our students. This is a good forum to hear from the professionals, get a “taste of the real engineering world”, talk to an expert and possible future employer. Look out for flyers and emails announcing the events. Participation in the regional and national AIChE conference Opportunity to compete for the Chem-E Car, Student poster and paper, ChemE jeopardy competitions Tours of facilities STEM outreach: demos to schools, for engineering day, for Brownie day etc American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) ASME promotes the art, science & practice of multidisciplinary engineering and allied sciences around the globe. ASME is a not-for-profit membership organization that enables collaboration, knowledge sharing, career enrichment, and skills development across all engineering disciplines, toward a goal of helping the global engineering community develop solutions to benefit lives and livelihoods. Founded in 1880 by a small group of leading industrialists, ASME has grown through the decades to include more than 130,000 members in 151 countries. Thirty-two thousand of these members are students. It is a professional organization for mechanical engineers. We have periodic “Lunch and Learns” with mechanical engineers from different companies in the industry. Aspiring Management and Marketing Professionals (AMMP) Aspiring Management and Marketing Professionals (AMMP) Aspiring Management and Marketing Professionals (AMMP) is committed to supplementing what students learn in class by offering unique opportunities to connect and learn from professionals from many diverse industries. We tour companies and host guest speakers in order to learn from their experiences and to see how TU coursework connects to professional careers. Being involved in AMMP is a great way to learn, network, and have fun as a student. Association of Black Collegians (ABC) Association of Black Collegians (ABC) As the Association of Black Collegians, we believe in the empowerment and equality of all people, with a focus on black and Afro identifying students. Our mission is to call attention to issues facing the black community while uplifting, educating, and creating a free and critically thinking environment for marginalized students on the University of Tulsa’s campus. We strive to create and maintain a safe space for all students of our community no regardless of their identities so that a stronger force for good in the TU community is made. Through this, we hope not only to empower others, but to help build driven and socially conscious leaders dedicated to improving and making an impact in our society. Association of International Students (AIS) Association of International Students (AIS) Founded in 1974, the Association of International Students (AIS) currently has 487 active members from 71 countries. We provide a variety of programs, activities, and events on a bi-weekly basis to all international students, their families and friends, the TU campus and the Tulsa community at large. Our events are open to the whole campus–we have American students as AIS associate members and coordinators. We aid in facilitating the sharing of diverse cultures and experiences, while introducing American and international students to each other so that everyone can meet people from all those countries he/she always wanted to know more about and make friends for life. Through our various and well-attended activities, academic, pre-professional and professional, social, cultural, sport, community service etc. we hope to help educate the leaders of tomorrow’s world today and to create a friendly environment and a support network for all students, while specifically welcoming and assisting international students and their families with their transition period, accommodation into the American culture, adjustment, and acculturation while attending the University of Tulsa (TU). We promote cultural awareness, understanding, recognition, and appreciation of diversity, harmony, amity, and tolerance while fostering camaraderie, friendship, goodwill, benevolence, cordial polemics, cooperation, and collaboration for the benefit of the whole TU campus and the Tulsa community at large. We present, represent, promote, and advocate the interests, ideas, and concerns of all AIS members before the TU administration and we serve as a liaison between administration and the student body. Association of International Students (AIS) aim to promote diversity and to bring a sense of belonging to all international students in TU through various multicultural event. Beside hosting multicultural events like International Night, International Bazaar and Soccer Tournament, we also serve as the bridge between international students in TU and the broader university community to address and solve the issues that international students in TU face. In addition to that, we also provide community services opportunities to our fellow international students, with our Multicultural Educational Exchange Program and other projects, students in TU have the opportunity to share their culture, ideas, and thoughts to the Tulsa community while promoting mutual understanding and respect within the Tulsa community. Badminton Doubles (Spring) Badminton Doubles (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Badminton Singles (Fall) Badminton Singles (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Ballroom Dance Club Ballroom Dance Club A club for any level of dancer who has interest in ballroom dancing. Baptist Collegiate Ministries (BCM) Baptist Collegiate Ministries (BCM) BCM exists to introduce college students to Jesus Christ and to connect college students with the Body of Christ for a lifetime on mission. BCM is supported by the Baptist General Convention of Oklahoma and strives to be a welcoming community for people of all backgrounds and belief systems. Basketball (Spring) Basketball (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Beta Alpha Psi Beta Alpha Psi Beta Alpha Psi is an honorary and service organization for financial information professionals. Beta Beta Beta (Tri Beta) Beta Beta Beta (Tri Beta) Beta Beta Beta (TriBeta) is a biological honor society. It is an honor society for students, particularly undergraduates, dedicated to improving the understanding and appreciation of biological study and extending boundaries of human knowledge through scientific research. Since its founding in 1922, more than 200,000 persons have been accepted into lifetime membership and more than 626 chapters have been established throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. Beta Upsilon Chi (BYX) Beta Upsilon Chi (BYX) Beta Upsilon Chi exists for the purpose of establishing brotherhood and unity among college men based on the common bond of Jesus Christ. Activities include weekly chapter meetings, 4-6 man weekly cell group bible studies, service events, philanthropy events, date functions, open campus parties, brotherhood activities and competitions, intramurals, and more. Billiards Club Billiards Club A club for students who love to play pool. Biology Graduate Student Association Biology Graduate Student Association A graduate student organization for anyone studying in fields related to biology. Brazil Club Brazil Club We are a club that welcomes The University of Tulsa Brazilian students and other TU students interested in Brazil and the Portuguese language. We share ideas, culture, music, language and have fun together! Capella Chamber Singers Capella Chamber Singers Championship Golf Doubles (Fall) Championship Golf Doubles (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Chi Alpha Campus Ministries (XA) Chi Alpha Campus Ministries (XA) Chi Alpha Campus Ministries (XA) is a community of students seeking to change the college campus and marketplace through prayer, worship, fellowship, discipleship, and missions. We are Tulsa Chi Alpha Campus Ministries. Nice to meet you. We meet at the University of Tulsa and the Tulsa Community College Southeast Campus. We are a Spirit-empowered, diverse community of believers declaring in word and lifestyle our faith in Jesus Christ, equipped to fulfill our purpose in God’s global plan. We strive to accomplish this through. . . Diversity. Students have been given an incredible opportunity to reach out in love and friendship to people that have different cultures, countries, and beliefs. Relationships. Our goal is that Chi Alpha becomes a family away from family. We want students to feel connected to each other and God. Discipleship. We want to see students being raised up to disciple other students. We want this skill to be something they can learn here, and continue to use when they get into the workforce. Our events include: Eat, Pray, & Love, our weekly large event, occurs every Tuesday at 6:30 pm @ Sharp Chapel Lifegroups lead by student leaders occur once a week around campus. You can also check our website for monthly events; such as, cookouts, going to the movies, etc. Chi Omega (Chi O) Chi Omega (Chi O) Nickname: Chi–O Chapter Name: Epsilon Gamma Colors: Cardinal and Straw Symbol: Owl Flower: White Carnation National Founding: April 5, 1895 at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR. Local Founding: April 18, 1929 Philanthropy: Make–A–Wish Foundation Service to others is a founding value of Chi Omega Fraternity, and each collegiate and alumnae chapter participates in philanthropic activities in their local communities. Chi Omega has a national alliance with the Make-A-Wish Foundation®, one of the world’s most well-known charities. Since 2002, Chi Omegas have raised over $18 million and donated over 1,000,000 volunteer hours to the Make-A-Wish Foundation to help fulfill its mission to grant the wishes of children with life-threatening medical conditions to enrich the human experience with hope, strength, and joy. In addition, many members donate to the Chi Omega Foundation, an educational foundation that provides scholarships for undergraduate and graduate study and leadership training for Chi Omegas of all ages. Chi Omega values and encourages the development of: academic excellence and intellectual pursuits, service to others, friendship, community and campus involvement, personal and career development, and personal integrity. Visit Greek Life for more information. Chinese Student Association (CSA) Chinese Student Association (CSA) Chinese Student Association at the University of Tulsa is a non-benefit student organization which is striving to provide services to all Chinese students at TU and promote Chinese culture to the community of the University of Tulsa. Each year, we celebrate two traditional Chinese festivals at TU campus: Mid-Autumn Festival and Spring Festival. Those two events are open for not only the Chinese students at TU, but also all the Chinese people living in the city of Tulsa. Also, we provide necessary help to all new Chinese students annually, including pre-arrival checklist, free pickup from the airport, orientation by CSA, etc. Christians Revealing the Apostles’ Vision on Earth (CRAVE) Christians Revealing the Apostles’ Vision on Earth (CRAVE) Circle K International of University of Tulsa (CKI) Circle K International of University of Tulsa (CKI) Circle K International (CKI) is the premier collegiate and university community service, leadership development, and friendship organization in the world. CKI is more than the world’s largest student-led collegiate service organization. You gain resume-worthy skills, find lifetime friends and do community service that changes lives, including your own. Some service opportunities could include: TU Service Day, Iron Gate, Special Olympics with Kiwanis, Second Saturday with Asbury Church, etc. All are welcome to join. Commuter Advocacy and Resource Society (CARS) Commuter Advocacy and Resource Society (CARS) We seek to aid commuter students by providing useful activities for commuters to network with one another and feel part of the University of Tulsa. Being a commuter is tough. No one gets that as much as the people at CARS! We are a group made of and for commuters. Our aim is to advocate for better experiences and opportunities for all TU commuters! We want to help connect fellow commuters and brainstorm ideas on how to achieve a better, more commuter friendly campus! Feel free to join us at a meeting or contact us to learn more! This semester, CARS will be having several events that bring commuters together for fun, food, and more. From ice cream socials to football game hangouts, CARS events are great opportunities to meet other commuters and enjoy campus life. Concert Chorale Concert Chorale Coriolis Force (Women’s Ultimate Frisbee) Coriolis Force (Women’s Ultimate Frisbee) Ultimate frisbee is a non-contact team sport played across the world. It is played between two teams on a rectangular field, similar to a football field, with end zones at either end. The offensive team passes the disc from player to player towards the end zone while the defensive team attempts to intercept the passes. A goal is scored when a player completes a pass to a teammate in the end zone. The sport is self-officiated, meaning there are no referees and players must call each other’s fowls. The responsibility for fair play then falls on the players, a concept known as “spirit of the game.” Deaf TU Deaf TU The purpose of DEAF TU is to engage with the Deaf community through socialization, education, and volunteer activities. Membership is open to anyone at the University of Tulsa interested in Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals and the Deaf community, regardless of signing ability or hearing status. In the past, DEAF TU members have met for weekly lunch with other students and members of the local Deaf community, tutored Deaf/Hard of Hearing students, and volunteered in educational programs. Joining Deaf TU is a unique experience that offers TU students the opportunity to build relationships with Deaf and Hard of Hearing individuals, increase ASL fluency in real-life environments, and give back to the local community through service. Delta Delta Delta (Tri Delta) Delta Delta Delta (Tri Delta) Nickname: Tri Delta Chapter Name: Theta Upsilon Colors: Silver, Gold, and Cerulean Blue Symbols: Pearl, Pine Tree, Trident, Star and Crescent Flower: Pansy National Founding: November 28, 1888 at Boston University, Boston, MA. Local Founding: May 19, 1931 Philanthropy: St. Jude Children’s Hospital Tri Delta collegiate and alumnae chapters raise funds and give service to support Children’s Cancer Charities. In addition to local hospitals, clinics and cancer camps, Tri Delta chapters have raised more than $47 million for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, the fraternity’s philanthropic partner since 1999. In 2014, Tri Delta made a commitment of raising $60 million dollars in ten years for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital. On the education and humanitarian front, Delta Delta Delta Foundation awards scholarships and provides assistance to alumnae and collegiate members in need. Finally, the fraternity opened The Center for Living, Learning & Leading in 2006 to fund Tri Delta’s collegiate living environments and develop innovative educational and leadership initiatives to ensure a safe, rewarding and relevant sorority experience for future generations of Tri Delta members. Tri Delta was founded by women for women. Ours is a remarkable story, and Tri Delta is proud to share a sisterhood created by brave, bold and kind women who were looking to be themselves and belong to something bigger something distinctive, something dynamic and something worthy of the best in them. Visit Greek Life for more information. Delta Gamma (Dee Gee) Delta Gamma (Dee Gee) Nickname: Dee Gee Chapter Name: Gamma Beta Colors: Bronze, Pink, and Blue Symbol: Anchor Flower: Cream–Colored Rose National Founding: December 25, 1873 at Lewis School, Oxford, MS. Local Founding: March 22, 1947 Philanthropies: Service for Sight & Joining Forces The Delta Gamma Foundation offers all members lifetime enrichment through educational growth, personal development and opportunities for philanthropic service in the highest spirit of social responsibility. How do members live the Delta Gamma motto of “Do Good”? Volunteer service is at the heart of Delta Gamma’s work. Through Service for Sight, Joining Forces, the Golden Anchor Program and community activities, the Foundation supports the philanthropic goals of our members and chapters. Foundation grants support Delta Gamma pre-schools and organizations that promote sight preservation and enhance the lives of children and adults who are blind or visually impaired. Delta Gamma offers to women of all ages a rich heritage based on principles of personal integrity, personal responsibility, and intellectual honesty. Its primary purpose is to foster high ideals of friendship, promote educational and cultural interests, create a true sense of social responsibility, and develop the finest qualities of character. “Go into the world and do well. But more importantly, go into the world and DO GOOD.” Visit Greek Life for more information. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority (Deltas) Delta Sigma Theta Sorority (Deltas) Delta Sigma Theta (Deltas) is a part of the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC). The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is the governing council for nine historically African American fraternities and sororities. Visit Greek Life for more information. Disc Golf (Spring) Disc Golf (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Disc Golf Club (Golden Aces) Disc Golf Club (Golden Aces) The Golden Aces introduce students of the University of Tulsa to the sport of disc golf by teaching the basics of throwing, playing on Tulsa courses with other members, competing in local tournaments, and competing against other collegiate teams. The club hopes to build friendly relationships by connecting students with common interest in the sport. Dodgeball (Spring) Dodgeball (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Earth Matters Earth Matters Earth Matters is an environmental group on campus that provides a place for environmentally-minded individuals to get together, express ideas, learn about our environment today, and reach out to the Tulsa community at large. Our activities include documentary screenings, community service, recycling demos, environmental campaigns on and off campus, guest speakers, and environmental hikes. Engineers Without Borders (EWB) Engineers Without Borders (EWB) Engineers Without Borders-USA partners with developing communities to improve their quality of life through the implementation of environmentally and economically sustainable engineering projects while developing internationally responsible engineers and engineering students. EWB-USA’s vision is to have a world where all communities in the world have the means to access clean drinking water, adequate sanitary conditions, and the ability to meet their other economic and engineering needs. These conditions require a commitment by professionals, to work with the local communities, businesses, non-government organizations and international development organizations. English Graduate Student Association (EGSA) English Graduate Student Association (EGSA) The English Graduate Student Association of the University of Tulsa provides academic and professional development through colloquia, guest speakers, and discussion. We also advocate the growth and welfare of the graduate student community by representing the needs of its members and by helping to build social bonds among its members. The English Graduate Student organization also participates in a yearlong writing mentorship program with students from Central High School located in Tulsa, OK. EGSA is a professional and social organization which provides academic and professional development to students in TU’s English graduate student programs through colloquia, guest speakers, and discussion. We also advocate the growth and welfare of the graduate student community by representing the needs of its members and by helping to build social bonds among its members through social events. Eta Kappa Nu Eta Kappa Nu Eta Kappa Nu is the international honor society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). The organization promotes excellence in the profession and in education through an emphasis on scholarship, character, and attitude. Membership is a lifelong designation for individuals who have distinguished themselves as students or as professionals in electrical engineering, computer engineering, computer science, and other fields of IEEE interest. Exercise and Sport Science Club (ExSS) Exercise and Sport Science Club (ExSS) The goal of Exercise Sports Science Club is to expose the students to careers within their desired field, provide helpful tactics to help students achieve their goals, and network within the Exercise Sports Science major through community service and events. Fellowship of Catholic University Students (FOCUS) Fellowship of Catholic University Students (FOCUS) Dedicated to knowing Jesus Christ and His call to make disciples of all nations through friendship. We work closely in conjunction with the Newman center and organize and lead weekly bible studies that are open to anyone and held at various times/locations. Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) The Fellowship of Christian Athletes is touching millions of lives…one heart at a time. Since 1954, FCA has been challenging coaches and athletes on the professional, college, high school, junior high and youth levels to use the powerful platform of sport to reach every coach and every athlete with the transforming power of Jesus Christ. FCA focuses on serving local communities around the globe by engaging, equipping and empowering coaches and athletes to unite, inspire and change the world through the gospel. Fellowship of Christian Athletes is an on-campus ministry that focuses on utilizing the platforms people possess to influence their world through the gospel. Despite the name of our ministry, we are open to all people, not just athletes, as we believe all people stand on a platform and have the ability to influence. Through our weekly meetings, we provide delicious foods, play fun games, sing worship, listen to phenomenal speakers and fellowship as a collective diverse group of TU students and develop lifelong relationships with each other. In addition, we are very active in utilizing our platforms through work within the community in and around Tulsa. Fisher South Hall Government Fisher South Hall Government Fisher South Hall Government Flag Football (Fall) Flag Football (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Future Alumni Council (FAC) Future Alumni Council (FAC) The purpose and objective of this organization shall be to help educate and prepare students for future leadership roles in the support of The University of Tulsa and the TU Alumni Association; to provide students an opportunity to serve The University of Tulsa through meaningful programs of service that will enhance their understanding of the importance of external relations to TU and the role former students play through financial and leadership support; and to provide students an opportunity to interact with University administrators and alumni leaders, and to offer students who have demonstrated leadership potential direct access to and involvement in Alumni Association programs. FAC strives to promote school spirit, build loyalty, advance campus traditions and serve The University of Tulsa through meaningful programs of service. The two main traditions FAC is in charge of every year are Taste of TU at the Homecoming Bonfire and The Final Bell Party & Bell Ringing in May. Geosciences Club (Geo Club) Geosciences Club (Geo Club) Geo Club is a student organization in the Department of Geosciences. We strive to inspire students across all majors to come learn about the fun and exciting aspects of Geoscience! We host many events throughout each semester for students and faculty. German Club German Club The Club wants to encourage students to practice the German language and to learn more about the German Culture through celebrating German Festivals and Feast Days, inviting German speakers, exchange students, having regular meetings with students to practice their German, having cooking lessons, games, and dance lessons. We meet once a month to practice German speaking skills and learn about German culture. Any skill level is welcome, we also love to meet people who just have an interest in German! Graduate Association for Students of Psychology (GRASP) Graduate Association for Students of Psychology (GRASP) GRASP includes all psychology graduate students in industrial-organizational and clinical psychology. Our mission statement is to promote a spirit of cooperation and cohesion–and not one of competition–between graduate students; to provide meaningful opportunities for both professional and personal growth, and to foster collaborative relationships between psychology faculty and students. Graduate Chemistry Student Association Graduate Chemistry Student Association An organization made for graduate students studying chemistry related degrees. Graduate Student Association (GSA) Graduate Student Association (GSA) GSA is a multipurpose organization designed to bring the graduate student community closer together. GSA hosts social and networking events to encourage interdisciplinary discussion between students, participates in community service events both on and off campus, teaches seminars on life skills and promotes relationships between the undergraduate and graduate students. Graduate Students for Diversity Graduate Students for Diversity Graduate Students for Diversity Habitat for Humanity Habitat for Humanity Habitat For Humanity seeks to eliminate poverty and homelessness around the world. The purpose of campus chapters is to educate campuses and their surrounding communities about poverty housing, raise funds for their affiliates and Habitat International, and of course, to help build. Through house sponsorship, individual donations, and volunteer time, we build quality, affordable and attractive houses. These homes are sold to families through no-interest loans. Homeowners complete 500 hours of “sweat equity” in addition to paying for their homes, working side-by-side with sponsors and volunteers to help build their own and other Tulsa Habitat homes. Our prospective homeowners learn what is required to qualify for the Habitat program: steady income, good credit and a need for better housing. Other than the income guidelines, applying for a Habitat home is similar to applying for a conventional loan. The TU chapter sponsors a number of fundraisers and events each year to raise awareness and the funds required to build a house. We no longer hold general meetings throughout the semester, but we do coordinate with our volunteers throughout the year for various fundraisers and, of course, building. If you’re interested in working with us, email one of our officers to get on our email list. Hardesty Hall Government Hardesty Hall Government Hillel: Association of Jewish Students Hillel: Association of Jewish Students We are committed to serving the Jewish students at TU in every way that we can. Over the past three decades, we have been fortunate to be a real presence in the lives of many students and faculty at the university. We provide Shabbat hospitality, inclusion in holiday celebrations, and lots of kosher food. The purpose of Hillel is to encourage students to make a lasting commitment to Judaism at a time in their lives when young people are searching for an identity. We have a Hillel center located in an apartment building at Third Street and Delaware Avenue on the northwest corner of the campus. The center has Internet access, television, comfortable chairs and a supply of traditional Jewish food. It will be open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. It will hold Shabat dinners and help celebrate Jewish holidays. Located at 315 South Delaware Avenue. Hurricane Tip-Off Classic (Fall) Hurricane Tip-Off Classic (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Indian Student Association (ISA) Indian Student Association (ISA) Indian Student organization is aimed primarily towards all the Indian students and Indian origin students on The University of Tulsa campus. However, we welcome everyone to our club. We organize two of the most famous Indian festivals and celebrate them on campus each year, Diwali (festival of lights) and Holi (Festival of Colors). The organization intends to promote the Indian culture by being inclusive and sharing with all the students and TU Alumni. ISA helps new students at TU with finding a place to live and helping them feel settled at their new home and life at TU. Feel free to reach out to us on our Facebook! Indonesian Student Association Indonesian Student Association We are bringing Indonesia’s best to Tulsa. Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers (IEEE) Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers (IEEE) Inter-fraternity Council (IFC) Inter-fraternity Council (IFC) The North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) is the governing body for many national and international fraternal organizations. These fraternities are governed by the undergraduate Interfraternity Council (IFC) of TU and their national headquarters. IFC includes representatives from each of these fraternities, advisers and an executive board. International Student Ministries (ISM) International Student Ministries (ISM) International Student Ministries is a community organization whose purpose is to address the practical and spiritual needs of international students with the love of God. We do our best to welcome international students to Tulsa, to help with practical things, like driving students to the grocery store, or get things done that you don’t know how to do when you first arrive in a new place. We have weekly lunches, and dinners over the summer, as well as the English Club, to help improve vocabulary and pronunciation. We also go on many trips and invite students to American homes for special events! We want to be a family away from home while you are at TU. Iota Sigma Pi Iota Sigma Pi Iota Sigma Pi is a national honor society for women in chemistry that promotes professional development and personal growth of women in chemistry and related fields through recognition, public outreach, and the formation of supportive networks. Jazz Ensemble Jazz Ensemble John Mabee Hall Government John Mabee Hall Government John Mabee Hall Government Kappa Alpha Order (KA) Kappa Alpha Order (KA) Kappa Alpha Order seeks men of intellect and virtue to provide a fully rounded college experience. Our values of Reverence, Gentility, Knowledge, Leadership, Brotherhood, and Excellence have led us to become leaders on our campus. We continue to seek out new brothers and to grow as individuals and an organization. Visit Greek Life for more information. Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity (Kappas) Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity (Kappas) Kappa Alpha Psi (Kappas) is a part of the National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC). The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is the governing council for nine historically African American fraternities and sororities. Visit Greek Life for more information. Kappa Alpha Theta (Theta) Kappa Alpha Theta (Theta) Nickname: Theta Chapter Name: Gamma Tau Colors: Black and Gold Symbol: Kite Flower: Black and Gold Pansy National Founding: January 27, 1870 at DePauw University, Greencastle, IN. Local Founding: February 23, 1951 Philanthropy: Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) The official philanthropy of Kappa Alpha Theta is CASA-Court Appointed Special Advocates. CASA programs can be found in 49 states, the District of Columbia and the Virgin Islands. CASA volunteers advocate for children who are in foster care because of abuse or neglect. Theta chapters across the nation support their local CASA programs by conducting fundraisers, providing office assistance, and participating in special events for CASA children and volunteers. In addition to CASA, Theta supports the Kappa Alpha Theta Foundation which provides annual grants to the National CASA chapter, scholarships and leadership grants for collegians and alumnae, and funding for educational programs. Lastly, members contribute to the Friendship Fund in order to provide assistance to sisters in need. Yesterday, today, and tomorrow, Kappa Alpha Theta exists to nurture each member throughout her college and alumnae experience and to offer a lifelong opportunity for social, intellectual, and moral growth as she meets the higher and broader demands of mature life. Visit Greek Life for more information. Kappa Delta (Kay Dee) Kappa Delta (Kay Dee) Nickname: KD Chapter Name: Beta Epsilon Colors: Olive Green and Pearl White Symbols: Dagger, Teddy Bear, Nautilus Shell Flower: White Rose National Founding: October 23, 1897 at Longwood University, Farmville, VA. Local Founding: September 11, 1937 Philanthropies: Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., Prevent Child Abuse America, The Orthopedic Research Awards, & The Children’s Hospital in Richmond, VA. Kappa Delta supports four national philanthropies – Prevent Child Abuse America, Girl Scouts of the USA, the Orthopedic Research Awards, and Children’s Hospital of Richmond, Virginia. Kappa Delta founded the Confidence Coalition, a national movement committed to promoting self-confidence in girls and women so that they may feel empowered to overcome social barriers and be inspired to reach their greatest potential. In 1999, Kappa Delta Sorority created National Women’s Friendship Day for all women. The holiday was so popular that it was expanded in 2009 to a month-long celebration. Now women celebrate International Women’s Friendship Month (IWFM) the entire month of September. Also in 2009, a small group of girls came up with the idea to create a day just for girls to celebrate what makes girls special. With the help of their mentor, they took the idea to Kappa Delta Sorority and together they created International Girls Day on behalf of the Confidence Coalition. With the message, “She Can Do Anything!” the celebration recognizes the spirit of girls and encourages girls to make their dreams a reality. The celebration takes place each year on November 14. Kappa Delta Sorority is a national organization for women committed to: •Inspiring our members to reach their full potential; •Preparing our members for community service, active leadership and responsible citizenship; •Creating opportunities for lifetime involvement through innovative and responsive programs, and strategic collaborations and partnerships; and •Fostering the development of our time-honored values within the context of friendship. Visit Greek Life for more information. Kappa Delta Pi (KDP) Kappa Delta Pi (KDP) Kappa Delta Pi (KDP), International Honor Society in Education, is a membership organization founded in 1911 to foster excellence in education and promote fellowship among those dedicated to teaching. KDP membership is a lifelong connection to an international network of exceptional educators working in various levels of education, including some of today’s top thinkers and practitioners in education, all dedicated to providing quality education for all. Kappa Kappa Gamma (Kappa) Kappa Kappa Gamma (Kappa) Nickname: Kappa Chapter Name: Delta Pi Colors: Light and Dark Blue Symbols: Golden Key, Owl Flower: Fleur–de–Lis National Founding: October 13, 1870 at Monmouth College, Monmouth, IL. Local Founding: October 31, 1946 Philanthropies: Reading is Fundamental & Kappa Kappa Gamma Foundation Kappa Kappa Gamma is very proud to support RIF —Reading is Fundamental, a program that focuses on promoting literacy in communities. As a chapter, Kappas volunteer time and resources to promoting literacy and academic success in the Tulsa community. As a chapter, Kappa also supports the national Kappa Kappa Gamma Foundation, which provides several undergraduate and graduate scholarships for members as well as emergency grants for undergraduate members, and educational programming and leadership development for the chapter. Philanthropy is an important part of what it means to be a Kappa Kappa Gamma. The Delta Pi chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma at the University of Tulsa was founded on November 2, 1946. Its diverse members are from all over the country and are represented on campus in Student Association, Panhellenic, and University Ambassadors along with several other honor societies and clubs. Our members are studying majors in every college and have a variety of backgrounds and interests. Visit Greek Life for more information. Kappa Sigma (K-Sig) Kappa Sigma (K-Sig) Since the dawn of our Fraternity, the heart of Kappa Sigma has been led by Four Pillars, which guide our ambitions and underpin our successes. Striving for excellence in Fellowship, Leadership, Scholarship and Service produces Brothers who are involved in all aspects of campus life; excel academically and professionally. Kappa Sigma offers the framework to build yourself into the man you want to be. “He must be a gentleman … a man of honor and courage … a man of zeal, yet humble … an intelligent man … a man of truth … one who tempers action with wisdom…” Kappa Sigma searches for young men who embody these standards through our pledge program and offers membership to those that showcase these attributes. Visit Greek Life for more information. Korean Student Association Korean Student Association La Tertulia (Spanish Club) La Tertulia (Spanish Club) La Tertulia is a conversation club conducted in Spanish, and facilitated by native-speaker professors. While casual, it is a fantastic way to meet new people, and to practice your Spanish skills. We also put on movie nights and sometimes bring food, and are looking to expand our membership and events offered. Lambda Alpha (Anthropology) Lambda Alpha (Anthropology) The main goal of Lambda Alpha –TU Chapter is to provide with excellent coverage of novel academic research on relevant subjects within the four fields of anthropology, to push our members both undergraduate and graduate to achieve better academic performance through presentations on research they collaborate with or of their own, and provide them with useful professional skills so that they can become competitive once they graduate from The University of Tulsa. In addition, Lambda Alpha works as a platform for current members to network with incoming Guest speakers who are recognized experts on their respective fields as well as with other TU students who do not necessarily want to major in Anthropology but might potentially join Lambda Alpha. Lamda Alpha also participates in community service events such as World Anthropology Day and Archaeology Day. Lambda Chi Alpha (Lambda Chi) Lambda Chi Alpha (Lambda Chi) Founded in 1937, the TU chapter of LCA has built a strong culture of tradition, a wide alumni network, and accumulated too many great stories to keep track of along the way. Visit Greek Life for more information. LANbrew LANbrew LANbrew (LAN meaning Local Area Network) is a Local Area Network gaming club. Some typical events include game party nights, tournaments, or themed game events. Latin American Student Association (LASA) Latin American Student Association (LASA) The Latin American Student Association seeks to teach and share the understanding of Latin America and Latin American culture. LASA promotes the social integration of students of Latin American origin, self-identification, background, or heritage. Latter-day Saint Student Association (LDSSA) Latter-day Saint Student Association (LDSSA) A student group organized to promote and support students that are Mormon. Linux Users Group Linux Users Group This is a club for anyone new or seasoned in technology and software. All are welcome. Lottie Jane Hall Government Lottie Jane Hall Government Lottie Jane Hall Government. Make A Difference Engineering at TU (MADE at TU) Make A Difference Engineering at TU (MADE at TU) Make a Difference Engineering (MADE at TU) initiative, a program that has fundamentally improved the lives of many disabled children in northeast Oklahoma through the design and development of mobility aids and other adaptive devices. The social service aspect of MADE at TU is tremendously valuable to TU students and faculty: The technical challenges are comprehensive, and the client interactions are ideal exercises in developing design requirements. Malaysian Students Association (MASA) Malaysian Students Association (MASA) In MASA, we want to spread and share our culture and diversity that we have in Malaysia and let other students and the TU community to be able to experience it through events that we will organize and participate. One of our events is called Malaysian Night. During this event, one can experience our Malaysian culture through our video presentation, clothes and food. Mathematical Association Of America (MAA) Mathematical Association Of America (MAA) The Mathematical Association of America is the world’s largest community of mathematicians, students, and enthusiasts. We further the understanding of our world through mathematics because mathematics drives society and shapes our lives. The mission of the MAA is to advance the understanding of mathematics, and its impact on our world. Med-X Med-X We strive to provide members the opportunities to meet medical professionals through lectures, meetings, and/or discussions with professionals in their chosen fields, etc. Mortar Board Mortar Board Museum Student Association Museum Student Association National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE) NSBE is a 501(C)(3) non-profit association that is owned and managed by its members. The organization is dedicated to the academic and professional success of African-American engineering students and professionals. NSBE offers members leadership training, professional development, mentoring opportunities, career placement services and more! NSBE is comprised of more than 300 collegiate, 75 professional and 75 pre-college chapters nationwide and overseas. The University of Tulsa is part of the Region 5 division of NSBE. Newman Men’s Group Newman Men’s Group Newman Men’s Group is a Catholic Men’s group focused on forming college guys into men through fraternity, spiritual bonding, and using Church teaching as a touchstone for content. Nurses Christian Fellowship (NCF) Nurses Christian Fellowship (NCF) We are a group of students that come together to learn more about being a Christian and a nurse. During this time we encourage and support one another throughout nursing school through various activities. Order of Omega Order of Omega Order of Omega is a national honor society that recognizes Greek men and women who have attained a high standard of leadership in interfraternity activities while simultaneously achieving academic excellence. The members of Order of Omega represent the top three percent of Greek students at The University of Tulsa. Orientation Leaders Orientation Leaders Our student Orientation Leaders are at the heart of what we do. We carefully select veteran student leaders who demonstrate a deep commitment to helping others succeed and who can serve as guides and catalysts for groups of new students. These exceptional young men and women bring with them a wide range of experiences in campus organizations, co-curricular activities, cultural encounters and academic excellence. Our Orientation Leaders are responsible for almost all aspects of preparing for and running StartTU, our orientation experience for new students. They work with a small group of students throughout the experience and then stay in touch with their students throughout their first year of college to answer questions, help with challenges and boost student success. Our Orientation Leaders also are an integral part of ImpactTU, our first-year leadership program. These leaders facilitate group discussions, share their personal stories and help with logistics. Selection of Orientation Leaders is a rigorous process involving administrators, faculty and staff members from across the TU campus. Students interested in applying to become an Orientation Leader should look for information from the Office of New Student Programs and Services in mid-fall. Panhellenic Council (PHC) Panhellenic Council (PHC) The Panhellenic Council consists of members of each National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) sorority working to facilitate and promote friendship, leadership, service, and scholarship within the Panhellenic community and on campus. Persian Student Association Persian Student Association Phi Alpha Delta Phi Alpha Delta Phi Alpha Theta Phi Alpha Theta American honor society for undergraduate and graduate students and professors of history. It’s a professional society whose mission is to promote the study of history through the encouragement of research, good teaching, publication and the exchange of learning and ideas among historians. They seek to bring students and teachers together for intellectual and social exchanges, which promote and assist historical research and publication by our members in a variety of ways. Phi Beta Kappa Phi Beta Kappa The Phi Beta Kappa Society is the oldest and most distinguished academic honorary society in America. It was founded in 1776 at the College of William and Mary, and chapters were subsequently established at Yale in 1780 and at Harvard in 1781. In 1989 a Phi Beta Kappa Chapter–Beta of Oklahoma–was chartered on the University of Tulsa campus, the second to be established in the state of Oklahoma. The chapter annually elects to membership students with exceptionally strong records in the liberal arts and sciences. Election to membership in Phi Beta Kappa is one of the highest academic honors and is almost universally regarded as evidence of superior scholarly attainment. The Society champions and promotes the freedom of scholarly inquiry and the liberal ideal in education. By liberal we mean free and broad, in the sense of an educational breadth that crosses disciplines, and is suffused with a relish for the adventure of lifelong learning. Liberal Studies generally refer to disciplines and courses in the arts and sciences (such as English literature, psychology, art history, biology, and physics) that are not just for the purpose of preparing one for a profession, but also for providing an understanding of the complexity and diversity of the world around us, the vastness of the universe that encompasses us, and the cultural and historical foundations of human societies that comprise our global communities. A liberal education leads to the formation of a broadly educated person who is equipped with the tools and skills for effective and critical thinking, writing, and speaking; and it enables one to make a positive and a distinctive difference in the world, regardless of what profession or environment one enters. Election to membership in Phi Beta Kappa acknowledges that an individual has attained high scholarly distinction and possesses the potential for a lifetime of learning and outstanding achievement. Phi Eta Sigma Phi Eta Sigma Phi Eta Sigma is the nation’s oldest and largest freshman honor society and is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies. The fraternity has had an active chapter on The University of Tulsa’s campus since 1948. The society’s goal is to encourage and reward academic excellence among first-year students in institutions of higher learning. The University of Tulsa Phi Eta Sigma chapter has a membership of over 400 students. The chapter is an active and well-recognized student organization. The chapter participates in campus-wide service events, is a recognized student organization, and boasts a successful student mentor program. All first-year students who achieve a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.5 on a 4.0 scale at the close of any full-time curricular period during the first year are eligible to join. Phi Lambda Upsilon (Chemistry Club) Phi Lambda Upsilon (Chemistry Club) Phi Lambda Upsilon was founded in March 1899 at the University of Illinois. It was the first honor society to be dedicated to a single scientific discipline. PLU is the National Honor Society that recognizes those who achieve excellence in chemistry in both pure and applied fields (chemistry, biochemistry, and chemical engineering). Admission to the society is a lifetime membership and is by invitation only. The members are undergraduate seniors, graduate students, and tenured faculty, who have all demonstrated excellence in the field of chemical research and academia. The purpose of the society is to promote high scholarship and original investigation in all branches of pure and applied chemistry. Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Music Fraternity Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Music Fraternity The Alpha Chi chapter was chartered on February 21, 1927 with 16 founding members. Its charter was approved under the 8th Supreme President of Phi Mu Alpha, Peter W. Dykema – Alpha (1917), and was active on campus until 1974. The chapter was then reactivated on April 23, 1993. Currently, with 64 collegiate members, The Alpha Chi chapter holds the distinction of being the oldest on-campus fraternity at The University of Tulsa. Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia is a social fraternity for men with an interest in music, with the goals of fostering deeper brotherhood and advancing music in America. The Alpha Chi chapter at TU performs a recital as part of Philanthropy Week in the Spring semester, in addition to other musical engagements throughout the year, including service projects and caroling at the holidays. The highlight of the Alpha Chi chapter’s year is our annual philanthropy week that takes place each Spring. The week includes a fundraising dinner filled with food, fun, and entertainment; as well as a free concert that displays the manifold talents of our members through music of all styles. Our chapter also hosts a tailgate with food and fellowship for members and alumni of TU’s marching band before home football games. Follow us on social media for announcements! Pi Kappa Alpha (Pike) Pi Kappa Alpha (Pike) Pi Kappa Alpha (PIKE) is an international, Greek letter, secret, social Fraternity dedicated to setting the standard of integrity, intellect, and achievement for our members, host institutions, and the communities in which we live. PIKE provides opportunities for membership development, scholarship programming athletic competition, social functions, and much more. The Gamma Upsilon chapter was founded on June 6th, 1936 and has garnered many awards and recognitions since. In recent years this has included the highest award given to Greek organizations – the Circle of Excellence. PIKE has won this coveted award for 6 out of the last 8 years (2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, & 2018). Pi Sigma Alpha Pi Sigma Alpha Pi Sigma Alpha is classified by the Association of College Honor Societies (ACHS) as an “upper division, specialized” honor society. Membership in Pi Sigma Alpha is open to undergraduate and graduate students currently enrolled in programs of political science. It’s the only honor society for college and university students of political science in the United States. Its purpose is to recognize and promote high academic achievement in the field of political science. For more information visit their website. Pickleball (Fall) Pickleball (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Pride at TU Pride at TU Public Relations Student Society of America (PRSSA) Public Relations Student Society of America (PRSSA) Participating in our local activities puts you in touch with the region’s top public relations professionals. We offer monthly meetings with engaging speakers, affordable professional development seminars, opportunities to connect with other talented professionals and a monthly e-mail newsletter. PRSA members are employed by local and national businesses, public relations agencies, educational institutions, trade and professional groups, healthcare groups and nonprofit organizations. We invite you to find out more about our premier organization today! Also, check out our national organization at www.prsa.org. RAW Writing Club RAW Writing Club RAW Writing club is a weekly creative writing workshop dedicated to improving writing skills and growing in a literary community. Meetings revolve around reading and discussing original pieces. This is anything: poetry, prose, songs, screenwriting or a garbled mass of words. We host several events a year including, but not limited to: readings, field trips, and RAWx, a monthly meeting with local high schoolers. We are open to all and encourage everyone to come share what you write! Reformed University Fellowship (RUF) Reformed University Fellowship (RUF) More than just a ministry on the university campus, RUF seeks to be a ministry for the university. We strive to serve in this unique stage of a student’s life in the world they live in, exploring together how the Lordship of Christ informs every area of life. Residence Hall Association (RHA) Residence Hall Association (RHA) Sand Volleyball Doubles (Spring) Sand Volleyball Doubles (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Saudi Student Association Saudi Student Association Sigma Alpha Iota Women’s Music Fraternity (SAI) Sigma Alpha Iota Women’s Music Fraternity (SAI) We are the Sigma Gamma chapter of Sigma Alpha Iota. The mission of Sigma Alpha Iota International Music Fraternity is to encourage, nurture and support the art of music. Sigma Alpha Iota is an organization promoting interaction among those who share a commitment to music, working closely with faculty, administration, campus and community groups, music professionals and patrons. Sigma Chi (Sigs) Sigma Chi (Sigs) Our fraternity is composed of a diverse group of individuals who possess different temperaments, talents, and convictions. Sigma Chi shapes young men into leaders of men, creating bonds to last a lifetime. Visit Greek Life for more information. Sigma Nu Sigma Nu Sigma Nu’s mission is “to develop ethical leaders inspired by the principles of Love, Honor, and Truth. To foster the personal growth of each man’s mind, heart, and character. To perpetuate lifelong friendships and commitment to the Fraternity.” Sigma Nu is continually increasing its membership and capabilities as it creates and capitalizes on new markets and opportunities that support the Fraternity’s mission. Visit Greek Life for more information. Sigma Pi Sigma Sigma Pi Sigma Sigma Pi Sigma exists to honor outstanding scholarship in physics; to encourage interest in physics among students at all levels; to promote an attitude of service of its members towards their fellow students, colleagues, and the public; to provide a fellowship of persons who have excelled in physics. Soccer Club for Men Soccer Club for Men Society for Gender Equality (SGE) Society for Gender Equality (SGE) Society for Petroleum Geology Society for Petroleum Geology Society of Global Professionals Society of Global Professionals The Society of Global Professionals hopes to help international students find jobs after graduation. The club plans to have info sessions with career services, talks by TU alumni with jobs that take them abroad, visiting representatives from industries not always seen at TU and job application roundtables. In roundtables, students will search and apply for jobs together. Renan Kuntz, the president, was motivated to start the club because finding a job can be difficult after graduation, and collectively, students may be able to achieve more than separately. The club also hopes to dispel the misunderstanding by companies that international students need sponsorship to continue to work in the U.S. Optional Practical Training and their student visa allow students to stay another year, and STEM majors can stay another two years. After this time period, if the company has an international location, the students could relocate there. “If we show employers that TU is the place to hire such unique professionals, we will see our alumni doing great things and occupying important roles outside the U.S.,” Kuntz said. He hopes this club will assist TU in creating globally ready professionals. “With an international student population of twenty-five percent of our campus, affordable and available study-abroad programs and internationally-renowned research programs, TU students have the best environment for developing skills for the global market,” he said. For their first event, they hosted an immigration specialist from the International Student Services office to tell students about applying for the Optional Practical Training. The next event will be a resume/cover letter/LinkedIn training. Any students interested in global careers can join the club by reaching out to their email, sgputulsa@gmail.com. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) Mission: SHPE changes lives by empowering the Hispanic community to realize its fullest potential and to impact the world through STEM awareness, access, support and development. Vision: SHPE’s vision is a world where Hispanics are highly valued and influential as the leading innovators, scientists, mathematicians and engineers. Our organization aims to empower the Hispanic community and other underrepresented groups to realize their full potential STEM through awareness, access, support, and development of STEM. We host general meetings monthly, study sessions during exam weeks, outreach events at local middle and high schools, and workshops with our company sponsors, as well as attend our national and regional conferences for helpful workshops, networking, and large job fairs. Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) The Mid-Continent Section of SPE was founded on December 28, 1917. It predated, by two years, the establishment of the American Petroleum Institute (API). Today, the Mid-Continent Section has over 700 members located in Tulsa, Oklahoma USA and surrounding area. Our diverse membership comes from a mix of medium and small businesses including major oil & gas companies, independent producers, drilling contractors, well services, equipment suppliers, gas transmission, universities, government agencies, and consultants. The student chapter of one of the largest professional platforms in the world. In charge to disseminate and exchange technical knowledge of the Oil & Gas Industry. It also provides opportunities for students and professionals to enhance their careers. Society of Physics Students (SPS) Society of Physics Students (SPS) The Society of Physics Students (SPS) is a professional association explicitly designed for students and their advisers. Membership, through collegiate chapters, is open to anyone interested in physics. The only requirement for membership is that you be interested in physics. Besides physics majors, our members include majors in astronomy, chemistry, computer science, engineering, geology, mathematics, medicine, and other fields. SPS is a chapter based society that exists to help students transform themselves into contributing members of the professional community. Traditional coursework develops only one range of skills. Other skills needed to flourish professionally include effective communication and personal interactions, leadership experience, establishing a personal network of contacts, presenting scholarly work in professional meetings and journals, research experiences, and outreach services to the campus and local communities. Through its members, advisers, chapters, and leadership, SPS enables national initiatives and local impacts within the community. SPS supports students, advisers, and departments to improve the overall community. Locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally, the SPS offers the opportunity for these important enrichments to the student’s experience. Society of Women Engineers (SWE) Society of Women Engineers (SWE) SWE is an inclusive organization focused on issues of interest to women specializing in engineering and technical careers. The TU SWE section provides Lunch & Learns with professionals and STEM outreach opportunities to help grow our interest and excitement in being engineers! Sound of the Golden Hurricane Sound of the Golden Hurricane Spike Ball Tournament (Spring) Spike Ball Tournament (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Spiked Punch Lines Improv Spiked Punch Lines Improv We are TU’s first and only improv group, specializing in short form comedy, but recently experimenting with long form. All are welcome! St. Philip Neri Newman Center St. Philip Neri Newman Center The St. Philip Neri Catholic Newman Center forms university students through an active faith-filled community to develop them as missionary disciples of Christ. St. Therese Women’s Group St. Therese Women’s Group So here’s the scoop. This thing called life is quite challenging and call really leave us feeling empty and hopeless when we’re caught up in concerns of worldly importance and self. Alas, the beauty is found when we turn our lives outward and start living for God and others. The invitation: join a women’s group this semester and make genuine friends who will walk beside you in this journey. Ladies, the St. Therese Women’s Groups will continue weekly meetings, tea times, and other great opportunities to grow closer to God and make great friends at the same time. We meet once a month to get women (and men!) together to participate in fun activities, anything from arts and crafts to paintballing. Enjoy releasing stress and meeting new people. All are welcome and we can’t wait to see you at our next event! STEM^2 (STEM squared) STEM^2 (STEM squared) STEM^2 is a community service organization that works to promote underrepresented groups in STEM. We do this by going to schools and STEM events within the Tulsa community and doing some type of science-related demonstration. Also, we host an annual TU STEM Fair in Keplinger Hall where we invite Tulsa, and surrounding area, high school students to come and learn about all things STEM. The day consists of a talk from TU admissions, a tour of campus and our chemistry labs, many TU STEM organizations hosting booths, and concludes with lunch and a motivational talk about STEM from a keynote speaker. Student Association (SA) Student Association (SA) The Student Association strives to create and promote intellectual, social, and cultural opportunities, to act as a catalyst for change within the University, and to advocate for the interests of the student body. By putting on events and enacting legislation to enhance the student experience, the Student Association provides students with a platform to become leaders that make a difference on campus. Student Economics Association (SEA) Student Economics Association (SEA) The purpose of SEA is to develop, maintain, and strengthen an active community of TU students interested in economics, creating an environment in which peers may help each other to succeed. SEA hosts a variety of events that are open to the entire TU community including research seminars from distinguished guest lecturers, discussions on graduate school, game theory game nights, and other events. SEA members also provide free tutoring for students in ECON 2013 (Principles of Macroeconomics) and ECON 2023 (Principles of Microeconomics). Student Finance Association (SFA) Student Finance Association (SFA) SFA conducts several meeting per semester with guest speakers specializing in the Finance Field. Each Spring Semester, members have the opportunity to apply for the Chicago SFA Trip where we visit the Chicago Federal Reserve, Several Asset Management Companies, and the Chicago Board of Exchange. The trip is funded by SFA Donors and students just pay a small deposit to attend. Student Health Advocates Association (SHAA) Student Health Advocates Association (SHAA) The University of Tulsa SHAA stands for Student Health Advocates Association and is a campus organization that seeks to promote physical and mental health throughout college life. Student Investment Fund Group Student Investment Fund Group The University of Tulsa’s Student Investment Fund was established in 1997 and currently has more than $5,000,000 in assets that students manage. The purpose of the fund is to provide students with the opportunity to obtain a real-world experience in the process of managing investment portfolios through buying and selling securities and learning about asset allocations. Students are able to apply financial theories and models in making real investment decisions and managing a real portfolio of financial assets. The class elects an Executive Officer and Secretary and has four working committees: Portfolio Accounting and Risk, Macro Economic, Membership/Public Relations and Operations/MIS. Class sessions involve: (i) some knowledge transfer from the Faculty Advisor and experts from the industry; (ii) student presentations and reports of committee activities; (iii) investment discussion by students similar to how mutual fund managers discuss their holdings. “The purpose of the organization is to manage the student investment fund. The fund provides students with the opportunity to obtain a real-world experience in the process of managing investment portfolios through buying and selling securities and learning about asset allocations. Students are able to apply financial theories and models in making real investment decisions and managing a real portfolio of financial assets. In managing the fund, we host special events for education and exposure training to the general TU public.” Student Mobilization (StuMo) Student Mobilization (StuMo) The college years are some of the most foundational years of our lives. As a college student, you are at the crossroads of life, making long-lasting decisions and preparing to leave your mark on the world. It is an ideal and crucial time to develop the values and beliefs that will guide you throughout the course of your life. Our passion is to help college students build this foundation. We believe that it is the goal of every Christian to grow in spiritual maturity through obedience to the Word of God and the indwelling Spirit. Therefore we believe that it is the obligation of the saved to witness by life and word to the truths of the Scriptures and to seek to proclaim the gospel, and in turn make disciples, of all “nations.” Our mission is to help men and women embrace their faith and grow as spiritual leaders for future generations. We do this through monthly meetings, weekly studies, and personal mentoring, along with large events with other Stumo campuses such as SMC and Kaleo. If faith, character, or leadership are important to you, come check us out! Student National Association of Teachers of Singing (TU SNATS) Student National Association of Teachers of Singing (TU SNATS) The National Association of Teachers of Singing fosters the formation of student chapters in order to advance knowledge about the Association and the professions of teaching and singing. A Student NATS (SNATS) Chapter is an organization of students that can meet, hold events and discussions, participate, practice, and learn more about voice teaching as a profession. “A tremendous gap exists between the student years and the professional teaching years. SNATS Chapters mentor young singers into the profession at a grass roots level, and provide opportunities for supplementary information and education within NATS.” We are an organization of students interested in classical singing, with the intention of pursuing careers as professional singers or as teachers of singing. Our organization is open to anyone who would enjoy our activities, especially those who love music of any kind or hope to become educators in related fields. Students for Sustainability Students for Sustainability Our purpose is to lead the campus towards a greener future. We press for the change that is necessary, one step at a time. We consist of three direct action committees working on campaigns on the TU campus: The Plastics Committee The Waste Management Committee The Energy Committee We connect with other groups in the community and on campus to create a better city and a better world. Students for Sustainability strives to build a greener future for the campus and the community through direct action. Our three committees organize campaigns to improve our relationship with the environment. We work alongside other environmental groups and action teams in the community and utilize our diverse perspectives for more effective operation. Sustainable Engineering for Needy and Emerging Areas (SENEA) Sustainable Engineering for Needy and Emerging Areas (SENEA) SENEA club does humanitarian work with communities and families around the world. Table Tennis Doubles (Fall) Table Tennis Doubles (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Table Tennis Singles (Spring) Table Tennis Singles (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Tabletop Gaming Tabletop Gaming Whether you like high strategy or a casual brain break, we have something for you. Play games, meet people, and have fun! Sometimes there is free food included at the meetings or events. Tau Beta Pi Tau Beta Pi Tau Beta Pi is the Engineering Honor Society. Students must be invited to join in their junior or senior year (or by credit hour). We have several meetings each semester with food in addition to social and community service events. It lets engineers connect with each other and get to know one another. TEDx University of Tulsa TEDx University of Tulsa In the spirit of ideas worth spreading, TEDx is a program of local, self-organized events that bring people together to share a TED-like experience. At a TEDx event, TED Talks video and live speakers combine to spark deep discussion and connection. TEDxUniversityofTulsa is licensed through TED to create an event to showcase the ideas worth spreading on TU’s campus and the greater Tulsa community. Tennis Doubles (Fall) Tennis Doubles (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Tennis Singles (Fall) Tennis Singles (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Terpsichore Terpsichore TU’s student dance organization. Talk to our advisor – dance professor Jessica Vokoun for more info – or find us in the Spirit Room or Kendall Hall. Come dance with us! The Black Men’s Initiative The Black Men’s Initiative The purpose of The Black Men’s Initiative is to provide an assembly of empowerment to everyone with a concentration on African American, male student-athletes. This organization strives to provide to its members the necessary tools, information and opportunities to help student-athletes branch out into other endeavors, reach their full potential and be the change they want to see in the world. President of The Black Men’s Initiative Chris Paul: ckp1060@utulsa.edu TU American Red Cross Club TU American Red Cross Club Guided by the fundamental principles of the American Red Cross and its mission to prevent and alleviate human suffering in the face of emergencies by mobilizing the power of volunteers and the generosity of donors the Club, we will learn, practice and exemplify humanitarian values through mission-related service projects. TU Auto Club TU Auto Club We work on our cars, trucks, and motorcycles, keep them clean, and go to car meets. TU Capture the Flag Team (TUCTF) TU Capture the Flag Team (TUCTF) We are also known as Asciioverflow is the Capture The Flag (CTF) team at the University of Tulsa. CTFs are information security competitions where teams solve a series of challenges. CTFs prepare students for careers in security by exposing them to real-world problems. It was formed in 2015 and has competed in competitions throughout the United States. In the past three years, we have been invited to Connecticut three times for CyberSEED CTF, hosted by the University of Connecticut. In 2016, we placed 1st and won $10,000. We have qualified for and sent a team to CSAW CTF Finals in New York twice, placing 11th and 6th respectively. For the past three years, we have also hosted and run our own CTF, TUCTF, which has each time seen thousands of competitors from all over the world. TU Ceramics Club TU Ceramics Club We have open studio events for anyone on campus to try out ceramics and get to explore different art techniques. Students can learn how to hand-build, throw on the wheel, and glaze their works. We also help organize and run the annual Ceramic Sale in the Spring to raise money for the ceramic department. TU Club Baseball TU Club Baseball TU Club Tennis TU Club Tennis TU Club Tennis is an opportunity to play tennis, regardless of your skill level. We play matches as well as run drills at practice, while playing more competitively in match play against other universities. Anyone can come hit around at practice, but members do have to compete for spots in the tournament lineup. If you would like reminders about this organization click here. TU College Republicans (TUCR) TU College Republicans (TUCR) The purpose of TUCR is to promote the principles and ideological values of Conservatism with respect among the students at the University of Tulsa, to recruit students as members of the organization and the Republican Party, to aid in the election of Republican candidates, and to help develop political skills and leadership abilities among Republican students as preparation for future service in the community. We are a political organization on campus that is tied to the Republican party that seeks to inform members to be better educated and more involved in the community in terms of campaigns and voting and getting the word out about civic duties as well. Some of the events we have are normal member meetings which we try to have two a month. We host politicians and public figures, as well as joint events with other groups on campus about things like awareness for new policies that have been passed by the state or like events. People should join if they are interested in becoming informed civically about their community and OK politics as well as being in a community with like-minded students. TU Communication Sciences and Disorders Association (TU CSD-A) TU Communication Sciences and Disorders Association (TU CSD-A) TU CSD-A is an organization for students interested in Communication Sciences and Disorders, mainly students pursuing careers in Speech-Language Pathology or Audiology. We have monthly meetings, an annual conference, and many service opportunities throughout the year for our members. TU Curl TU Curl TU EMS TU EMS The TU EMS club gives students first-hand medical experience. The long-term vision of the club is to run a 24/7 medical on-call unit that would work with Campus Security. Campus Security, in a medical emergency, could then send students over or take care of the situation. The club has had CPR/first aid training for their officers and is planning how to operate on campus. In the future, the club plans to host CPR/first aid training twice a semester, potentially with a subsidized cost, as well as medical seminars twice a semester, detailing topics like how to deal with alcohol poisoning. To maintain a 24/7 service at a university this size, the team will need about 45 to 50 people. TU eSports Club TU eSports Club TU eSports club goal is to create and develop a community of gamers at TU that have an interest in aspects of competitive online games. Some members may want to play for fun, either with friends or with the goal of meeting new people. Others may want to watch professional gamers play games. Another group, of students might be interested in playing competitively, at a collegiate level or higher. eSports is not devoted to a specific game. Most events the club plans to hold are divided into viewing parties and game playing. Other times, the club may just play online without needing to meet up. For members more interested in competing, the club will host or attend tournaments, either locally or within the state. Such tournaments would be year-round, especially for League of Legends. The club also plans to hold a Super Smash division tournament at TU. TU Film Club TU Film Club The University of Tulsa Film Club aims to bring people from all ages, majors, interests, and knowledge of film together through the magic of cinema. You do NOT have to be a film major or need previous knowledge of filmmaking to join! Future activities may include film screenings on campus, discussions about the screenings or other films, and group trips to the movie theater! And yes, snacks will always be provided. TU French Club TU French Club TU French Club offers a safe and comfortable space for students to practice the French language as well as learn about french/francophone culture. No previous experience necessary! TU Game Designers – IGDA (TUGD) TU Game Designers – IGDA (TUGD) TUGD is a club devoted to all things gaming! We are a friendly and welcoming organization, dedicated to sharing our love of games and our passion for designing them with each other. In addition, we have partnered with IGDA–the International Game Developers Association–to obtain valuable resources to help us create better games. Our meetings vary from fun-filled game nights–where we play party titles like Jackbox and .io games all together–to intensive design sessions, where we work in Unity to learn the basics of game programming and apply them in new ways. We hope that you will join us sometime – our meetings are currently held virtually in our official TUGD Discord channel! TU Magic: The Gathering (TUMTG) TU Magic: The Gathering (TUMTG) TUMTG is a community of Magic players across campus. We run events for both new and experienced players, even those who have never played before. TU Men’s Ultimate Frisbee (Party Fowl) TU Men’s Ultimate Frisbee (Party Fowl) TU Men’s ultimate team focused on promoting the sport of ultimate on campus, development as a team, and competing against other college teams. TU Midstream Club Student Chapter (TU Midstream) TU Midstream Club Student Chapter (TU Midstream) We are a group of motivated students from the College of Engineering and Natural Science at the University of Tulsa, who wants to develop a working relationship with the Midstream Industry. The TU Midstream Club Student Chapter is dedicated to furthering the education and understanding of petroleum transportation, storage, and sales. All of which make up the midstream sector of the petroleum industry. We are looking to establish a professional network with members of the Midstream Industry. We organize events for: (a) Learning about new technologies, (b) Professional networking, (c) Attending industry conferences. We promote and organize facility tours to Midstream companies (pipeline operators, consulting groups, service companies, etc) in the State of Oklahoma. In average, we have four facility tours at companies locations, and two on-campus lunch & learns per semester. TU Photo Club TU Photo Club TU Photo Club is here to put photography in the spotlight around campus! Check us out for ways to learn more and help spread the good word of photos! The organization hopes to spread photography throughout campus and the surrounding neighborhoods. The primary goal of the club is to “create a community of photographers.” Members do not have to be a part of the school of art, as the club only hopes “to be a place where those with a shared interest can meet together.” Community service is another aspect of the club. There is a partnership with Kendall-Whittier by way of the Youth Mentorship Program (YMP). Working with students after school and providing the students with basic digital cameras, as to not “overload the students with technology.” Working with students on taking pictures and the importance of subject matter and color. Education is valuable. The club hopes to expose students to photography. Even if you are not an art major, you can still explore photography by joining this club. The TU Photo Club provides opportunities to come into contact with the art of photography through lectures, meetings, discussions, workshops, museum/art exhibition outings, field trips, and volunteer activities. TU Smash TU Smash TU Smash is a club organized around the appreciation of Super Smash Bros. They organize meet-ups and coordinated tournaments around the various Smash Bros. games. Relatively speaking, the culture surrounding the Super Smash Bros. series at TU is fairly new. Although Smash Bros. has long been a popular series of party games, two events, in particular, helped to form its more extensive and dedicated following. The first was the release of a comprehensive documentary in 2013 which chronicled the competitive history of the series’ most established title: Super Smash Bros. Melee, released in 2001 for the Nintendo Gamecube. Since then, large, international Melee tournaments like EVO 2015 and GENESIS 3 have attracted hundreds of thousands of viewers. Additionally, the series recently released its newest iteration, Super Smash Brothers for Wii U/3DS, which built more on the series’ already rapidly expanding fan base, and now includes its own competitive scene that rivals that of Melee in popularity. The club members vary on the intensity of competitiveness. Some are more casual and there to have fun, and others are very competitive. All are welcome to join. TU Student Speech Language Hearing Association (TUSSLHA) TU Student Speech Language Hearing Association (TUSSLHA) TUSSLHA is a pre-professional membership association for students interested in the study of communication sciences and disorders. The organization also focuses on supporting the efforts of The Little Lighthouse and understanding of communication disorders. The chapter hosts events like the annual Route 66 Conference on Communication Disorders. They are also known for their participation in events like Tulsa Walk for Apraxia of Speech and Buddy Walk for the Down Syndrome Foundation. Learn about service opportunities, hear about members’ research, meet Speech-language pathology students, see presentations, and much more. TU Student Veterans Association TU Student Veterans Association Mission: To advocate for student veterans and ensure their success both at TU and in their lives beyond graduation. Vision: To fully integrate the SVA mission into The University of Tulsa’s campus and culture. TU Students For Animal Welfare (TUSFAW) TU Students For Animal Welfare (TUSFAW) We volunteer with various animal groups around Tulsa, host fundraisers for these groups by bringing animals to campus and asking for a donation to play with the animals it makes for a great study break, if you love animals and want minimal commitment this is a great organization for you. TU Treks TU Treks TU Treks is an outdoor adventure group that provides activities to allow TU students to appreciate and explore the outdoors around the Tulsa area, as well as around the nation for free (or a very minimal cost). Treks is a fun, laid back organization for people of all skill levels; we have something for everyone! Some of our events have included paintball, hiking, bouldering, camping, indoor rock climbing, laser tag, kayaking, volleyball, pool battleship, and volunteer work at the food bank! Every year we go on a week long spring break trip to a new location, in the past few years we’ve gone to the Grand Canyon, New Orleans, Guadalupe Peak, and the Appalachian Trail. We’re always open to new adventure ideas, stop in and say hello! Tulsa Club Golf Tulsa Club Golf A competitive golf club that allows students to continue their competitive golf careers without the time constraints of a varsity program. The team competes in the National Collegiate Club Golf Association (NCCGA). There are two regional tournaments and a national tournament each semester. This club was founded in 2016 and has tallied several regional wins and national qualifications since this date. Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) was created in 2007 in conjunction with the Energy Management program at the University of Tulsa. TEMSA was created with the purpose of supporting Energy Management students throughout their college experience. TEMSA helps students find internships and full-time jobs, scholarships, and mentors. Opportunities to gain valuable experience and insight through participation in industry internships, local mentoring programs and the Tulsa Energy Management Student Association (TEMSA) serve as complements to the classroom experience. TEMSA members participate in intramural team sports, engage in various service projects in the Tulsa community, and continuously pursue opportunities to broaden their knowledge of the energy industry. TUTV Media Lab (TUTV) TUTV Media Lab (TUTV) TUTV is a student-run, student-led lab that gives TU students a place to do creative things with media. We have two branches to our organization. Every week, we produce a live-to-tape news broadcast that utilizes all assets of production – on-screen talent, directors, package content creators, etc. We also have a new podcast studio that is available for students to use to record their own programming. If you’re interested in media production but don’t know much about it, you are welcome to come to our meetings and we’ll teach you anything you want to know. It’s also a lot of fun. Once people join, they continue to participate until they graduate. If you’re interested, we meet every Tuesday at 4:30pm in Kendall Hall Studio A. This is open to students of all majors who are interested in video production, broadcasting, and audio production. Ultimate Season (Fall) Ultimate Season (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Ultimate Tournament (Spring) Ultimate Tournament (Spring) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. United Campus Ministries United Campus Ministries University Ambassadors (UA – Undergrad.) University Ambassadors (UA – Undergrad.) University Ambassadors is a student organization that helps the Office of Admissions in the recruiting and orientation of new students. Through our enthusiasm for The University of Tulsa, we work to promote the University from a student’s point of view. University Ambassadors serve as the face of the student body, offering prospective students a unique perspective that few others can give. Members of the University Ambassadors plan and take part in activities such as campus tours, overnight programs, communication with prospective students, summer programs, and planning of student recruitment. We are required to devote at least one hour a week to giving campus tours, along with additional time spent attending monthly meetings and special events such as Tulsa Time. University of Tulsa Chess Association University of Tulsa Chess Association University of Tulsa Club Lacrosse (Men’s) University of Tulsa Club Lacrosse (Men’s) University of Tulsa Club Lacrosse, also known as TU Lax, is Men’s Club lacrosse team at the University of Tulsa. We compete in games and tournaments throughout the school year. University of Tulsa Cycling and Triathlon University of Tulsa Cycling and Triathlon The purpose of the TU Cycling Club is to promote all aspects of cycling within the University of Tulsa community and the greater Tulsa area. As such, activities may include, but are not limited to road rides, mountain bike rides, multisport, and collegiate racing in the South Central Collegiate Cycling Conference. The Club seeks to teach new cyclists, to foster growth of experienced cyclists, to act as an ambassador for the University through racing and community involvement, and to serve as a social outlet for its members. University of Tulsa Museum Association (UTMA) University of Tulsa Museum Association (UTMA) University of Tulsa Student Nurses’ Association (TUSNA) University of Tulsa Student Nurses’ Association (TUSNA) We are the Pre-Professional Nursing Association at the University of Tulsa. We are the TU chapter of the Student Nurses’ Association. We hold monthly meetings that include free food, guest speakers from hospitals/faculty/alumni/students/etc. We also do some community service. Becoming a member will not only be beneficial in increasing your knowledge of all things nursing but looks great on your resume! University of Tulsa Undergraduate Mock Trial University of Tulsa Undergraduate Mock Trial Mock Trial is a competitive academic team for the University of Tulsa that travels and competes against other schools in mock trial competitions. We are given case materials and must be prepared as witnesses and lawyers to argue both sides of the case. Students gain valuable public speaking and critical thinking skills. Additionally, it’s a great trial experience for any student hoping to pursue a career in law. University of Tulsa Women’s Lacrosse (Lady Hurricane Lax) University of Tulsa Women’s Lacrosse (Lady Hurricane Lax) The University of Tulsa Women’s Lacrosse, also known as Lady Hurricane Lax, is a competitive club sport that brings students together to play what is affectionately known as ‘the fastest sport on two feet.’ It is a game focused on hand-eye coordination, speed, and strategy, and has components similar to many other field sports. Some of the benefits of joining are the healthy lifestyle the sport encourages and the bonding of teammates that builds great friendships! To be a part of the team and learn the sport, we will hold a few flexible practices a week, and play games against local club lacrosse teams within the region during springtime. Any student with any level of experience or none at all is welcome to come and play with us! Volleyball (Fall) Volleyball (Fall) Campus Recreation offers intramural sports to provide a variety of leisure opportunities to meet our students’ diverse needs and enhance their overall academic experience. All students are welcome. Our intramural program is committed to offering quality programs, facilities and services to accommodate a wide range of student interests and abilities. If you have suggestions or comments about our intramural program, please direct them to the intramural coordinator. Register in the Campus Recreation Office, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For more information, call Collin Fitness Center at 918-631-2679. Wesley Foundation Wesley Foundation The TU Wesley Foundation is an official United Methodist Campus Ministry of the Oklahoma Conference of the UMC. There are Wesley Foundations at every major university in Oklahoma, and there are many, more around the nation and world. Friday Noon Lunch: Lunch is served every week school is in session Women’s Club Volleyball Team Women’s Club Volleyball Team The TU Women’s Club Volleyball Team serves as an athletic organization that brings women of all types together for their love of volleyball. Through tournaments, travel, and practices, our goal is to have fun and continue to play volleyball at a competitive level. No items were found matching the current filters. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT