Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Arts & Sciences / Internship opens window on careers in development and nonprofit sectors Internship opens window on careers in development and nonprofit sectors September 22, 2021 From May 24 to July 30, economics and sociology senior Caroline Williams worked as an intern with the Nationwide Development Resources team of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The Nationwide Development Resources team is based at the ACLU’s national office in New York City; however, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Williams undertook her internship remotely. Caroline Williams This internship fit perfectly with Williams’ longstanding interests. Growing up in Kansas City, Missouri, Williams was drawn to public policy and social issues. At The University of Tulsa, where she is pursuing a minor in political science, Williams has furthered explored these topics while getting involved with the Oklahoma Intercollegiate Legislature, the TU Student Association and Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority (of which she is now president). The genesis of her ACLU internship arose during Williams’ junior year when she was a student in Civil Liberties in the United States, a course taught by Professor of Political Science Jeffrey Hockett. “This course really opened my eyes to the fascinating history of the ACLU and inspired me to see whether an internship with them was possible,” said Williams. Turns out, an internship with the ACLU was not only possible but also highly rewarding – both for Williams and the organization. So much so, in fact, that the ACLU has hired Williams as a temporary worker until the end of September. Her focus will be on helping to plan the Nationwide Development Convening, an internal conference for development staff at the affiliate and national level. At present, her main projects involve increasing participant engagement and ensuring compliance with organizational inclusion policies, such as closed captioning requirements. In this Q&A session, Williams illuminates the path she took to land the ACLU internship and the various projects on which she collaborated. How did you find your ACLU internship? Throughout my search, I relied heavily on the assistance of Brooke Smart, the arts and sciences career coach at TU’s CaneCareers. She encouraged me to find organizations I was interested in and search their career boards for internship opportunities. When I found this position, I thought it would be a great opportunity to combine and use my degree skills while still working for a company advocating for broad social change. Brooke helped me throughout the entire process by reviewing my cover letters and practicing interviews. What were the main projects you worked on with the ACLU’s Nationwide Development Resources team? I spent a large portion of my internship working on an affiliate assessment grid. This research-based project involved creating a spreadsheet that cataloged development staff from across the country. The details I included were staff contact information, pronouns, employment dates and more. This spreadsheet will be the back end of a staff database, so I also standardized staff titles to match the job functions. Throughout the year, each affiliate may present different pieces of information to their board, a practice that’s common among nonprofits. To help make this process easier for our affiliates, I created a slide deck that can be used to navigate dashboards in Looker, a business intelligence tool. I also had the opportunity to work on a variety of projects centering around the Southern Collective. This ACUL initiative is aimed at uniting southern states to combat regional issues, such as voting rights. What were some of the most satisfying elements during your internship? One of the most satisfying elements of my internship was the ability to engage in so many different areas. The ACLU has a very well-rounded internship program that includes speakers, workshops and networking with individuals from many different teams across the organization. I had the opportunity to speak with both interns and staff who were working in legal teams, advocacy, communication, marketing and, of course, development. This gave me a comprehensive understanding of the ACLU as a whole and how each department is integral to its success. Another rewarding aspect was the ability to connect with staff from across the country. The Nationwide Development Resources team has the opportunity to connect with affiliates in each state, so I was able to meet with a variety of different staff members and learn more about the work they are engaging with on a local level. It was especially exciting for me to be able to meet with ACLU employees from Missouri, which is my home state, and Oklahoma. How did your internship change you and give you new perspectives? This internship opened my eyes to the possibility of a career in development or nonprofit work. I had been considering many different career paths, but truly enjoying my work showed me that this may be a great fit for a career. Caroline was instrumental in moving forward a variety of projects for our team this summer. Not only did she provide additional capacity, but she also brought a fresh perspective to our work. Caroline’s contributions made our team more efficient and better organized. She helped to develop our strategic plan, build out business intelligence tools and was an active participant in many important stakeholder meetings. Caroline was a complete joy to work with as well, diving into each task with enthusiasm and thoughtfulness. We all think she is a rising star and we are excited to watch her career trajectory. Pamela Zimmerman Deputy Director, Nationwide Development Resources, ACLU By working with a team focused on providing resources, I was also exposed to different strategies that can be used in capacity-building initiatives as well. I learned many different leadership and management skills that I will be able to use in my student organizations and future career. What skills and knowledge did you acquire or sharpen, and how will they be useful for the rest of your studies at TU and career after graduation? Since I had the opportunity to work on so many projects, I was able to learn such a wide range of technical skills. I was exposed to programs such as Looker and Salesforce, but I also had the opportunity to advance my Excel skills. Overall, the new knowledge I gained will be helpful in many different career fields, but especially development or nonprofit careers. CaneCareers offers a lifetime of career assistance. Whether you are deciding on a major, exploring career options, finding an internship, planning for graduate school or landing that big job, get in touch and find out how we can help! Arts & Sciences, Arts and Sciences, Career Services, Economics, Experiential Learning, Featured, Internships, News, Sociology, Stories, Student Stories ACLU, American Civil Liberties Union, CaneCareers, Caroline Williams, development, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Nationwide Development Resources, nonprofit sector, Oklahoma Intercollegiate Legislature, University of Tulsa Student Association, voting rights 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT