Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Registrar / Re-admission for Returning Students Re-admission for Returning Students REGISTRAR Academic Calendar Enrollment Dates Finals Schedule Schedule of Courses Transfer Credit and Credit by Exam Re-admission for Returning Students Undergraduate Bulletin Graduate Bulletin Contact the Registrar Undergraduate students that have not maintained continuous enrollment and seek to return as an undergraduate degree-seeking student must apply for readmission to The University of Tulsa. To apply for re-admission at the undergraduate level, visit the Application for Returning Students. Additional information and eligibility criteria considered after the application is submitted is provided below. Re-admission/re-enrollment in the Graduate School or College of Law is managed by those divisions separately and also detailed below. Eligibility to Automatically Qualify for Re-Admission - Undergraduate Students must meet ALL of the following conditions based on responses on the Application for Returning Students to automatically qualify for re-enrollment at the undergraduate level: Missed no more than three consecutive semesters (Fall, Spring, Summer) or graduated with an undergraduate degree in the previous semester; Left the university without having been dismissed, expelled, or suspended; Had not previously completely withdrawn from the university; Was previously an undergraduate degree seeking student at time of last enrollment at TU; No outstanding financial balances with the university; Has not attended any additional institutions since last attending TU; and Has not been arrested for, charged with, or convicted of a felony since last attending TU. Students that meet ALL of these conditions may qualify to continue their former degree requirements as outlined in their original Academic Bulletin year, depending on the status of the program and the associated classes, or start a new program under a new Academic Bulletin year. Students must meet with a professional advisor in the Center for Academic Advising before enrolling. They will then be eligible to register with their class during priority registration and/or during open registration for the next available term. Failing to meet one of the criteria listed above does not automatically mark a student as ineligible for readmission but will require a student apply for readmission through the Office of the Registrar. NOTE: International students returning on a F-1 or J-1 visa will need to arrange for immigration clearance from the Center for Global Engagement (CGE) before registration can be completed, even if all of the other conditions listed above are met. To check on immigration status, contact CGE at iss@utulsa.edu. Re-Admission Requests Requiring Additional Information/Review - Undergraduate Students who have not maintained continuous enrollment at TU will require additional review by the Office of the Registrar if they fall under one or more of the following categories, after completing the Application for Returning Students. Applying for readmission based on the categories below does not guarantee that a student will be cleared for enrollment. Was absent from the University for more than three consecutive semesters (Fall, Spring, Summer) and was previously degree seeking. Graduated with an undergraduate degree and were not enrolled in the previous term. Attended a college/university since last attending TU and was previously degree seeking at TU. All students who have attended other institutions during their absence from the University must submit official transcripts to the Office of the Registrar. Completely withdrew from the university and was previously degree seeking. Was dismissed, expelled, or suspended from TU during or after the most recent semester of enrollment. Students dismissed/expelled for disciplinary reasons (including academic misconduct) are not eligible for readmission unless their written dismissal notice specifically indicates otherwise. A student dismissed for academic reasons cannot under normal circumstances be readmitted to the University of Tulsa until one calendar year has elapsed since the last term in which the student was registered. Students that have been academically dismissed must apply for readmission through the Office of the Registrar, who consults with the collegiate dean involved in the dismissal for decisions regarding readmission. Students that have been academically dismissed must always be approved to return by their original college before they can change colleges/majors. A student suspended for disciplinary reasons, or expelled with express permission to reapply for readmission, will require permission from the Dean of Students before readmission can be considered. Credits earned at another college or university during the dismissal/suspension period may not be applied towards a degree at TU unless approved by the readmitting academic dean. Has been arrested for, charged with, or convicted of a felony since last attending TU. Additional documentation will be required (e.g., court documents or police records relating to the reported felony) and student will be required to submit to a criminal background check. Once those additional items are submitted, the student’s readmission request will be reviewed by the Special Admission Committee. The Special Admission Committee will review the submitted documentation and determine if there are any conditions of readmission that need to be applied if the student is cleared to enroll The Office of the Registrar may request additional information not solicited in the application based on information in the student’s record and/or provided in the application. Information that may be requested includes but is not limited to: Transfer institution transcripts Court documents related to possible felony arrests/charges/convictions Criminal background check (if felony reported) Past academic status decisions from previous collegiate dean or Office of Student Affairs Following review of the readmission application and any associated documents/dean communications, Office of the Registrar will notify student and Center for Academic Advising via email of decision, possible readmission conditions, and next steps. Any students reapplying for admission to the university must meet degree requirements as outlined in the Academic Bulletin in effect at their reenrollment for the next available term to be eligible for readmission, unless an exception is approved by the College the student chooses to enroll in after readmission. If a student does not enroll for originally requested term, enrollment in a future term will require submission of a new readmission application. Readmission approval determines eligibility to enroll in courses at TU; however, it does not determine eligibility to enroll in specific programs, schools, or colleges. Standards/requirements for specific programs, schools, and colleges are determined by each program, school, or college. An undergraduate student’s eligibility to enroll in courses also does not ensure satisfactory academic progress for financial aid purposes. Students who receive or wish to be evaluated for financial aid should consult directly with the Office of Financial Aid to discuss eligibility. Changing from Non-Degree Seeking to Degree Seeking (Any Academic Level) Students who have previously attended the University in an undergraduate non-degree seeking or concurrent enrollment status, or who were previously students at the Graduate or Law academic levels, must apply for admission to a degree seeking undergraduate program through the Freshman or Transfer admission applications in the Office of Admission, if now seeking an undergraduate degree. These students will be held to the Academic Bulletin year active during their freshman or transfer admission application. Directions on applying through the Office of Admission are available at https://admission.utulsa.edu/apply/. Applying to Return as a Graduate Student (Master's or Doctoral Level) Managed by The Graduate School Students that were previously enrolled in a graduate program will need to contact the Graduate School directly to see if they qualify to reenroll. For more information on applying for readmission at the graduate level, contact grad@utulsa.edu. Typically a graduate degree must be completed within six years. This policy remains in effect even if a student is absent or not enrolled during several semesters. A student who allows the time limit to expire will have to apply through the Graduate School for readmission and must meet the new requirements for the degree as stipulated by the program at the time of readmission. Graduate work more than six years old must be validated by the department for currentness in the discipline. In addition, the student’s knowledge resulting from this graduate work must be determined to be current and the student deemed competent by examinations, or by other means of evaluation at the discretion of the major program. When all work toward the degree is out-of-date, it is possible to validate six of the out-of-date hours to be applied toward future work on the degree. All petitions for extension must be recommended by the student’s faculty advisor and approved by the Dean of the Graduate School. A more stringent statute of limitations may be imposed under the particular requirements of individual programs. Applying to Return as a Law Student Managed by The College of Law For general questions about reenrolling at the College of Law, go to Contact – College of Law (utulsa.edu). If interruption of studies is called for because of disruptive circumstances, such as serious or extended illness, serious family problems, military service, and the like, a student may be readmitted, as follows: A student who withdraws after having completed at least one term, and who is in good standing at the time of withdrawal, may re-enroll in the College of Law. If such withdrawal is during the spring term of the student’s first year of study, the student may re-enroll only in a subsequent spring term, to preserve the sequencing of courses. In any event, the period of interruption may not exceed three years, and the conduct of the student during the period of absence shall be subject to the Honor Code. A student who withdraws after having completed at least one term, but before completing 18 credit hours, and whose GPA is below 2.0 at the time of withdrawal, may re-enroll without petitioning the Academic Status and Student Affairs Committee. If such student withdraws during the spring term of the student’s first year of study, the student may re-enroll only in a subsequent spring term, to preserve the sequencing of courses. In any event, the period of interruption may not exceed three years, and the conduct of the student during the period of absence shall be subject to the Honor Code. A student who withdraws during the term in which he or she was readmitted on academic probation may re-enroll for subsequent term with the approval of a dean in consultation with the Academic Status and Student Affairs Committee. The total period of interruption, including the period from the time the student was academically dismissed until the student was readmitted on probation, may not exceed three years, and the conduct of the student during the period of absence shall be subject to the Honor Code. 23 A student who withdraws after his or her first term of study at this College of Law or any other law school may make application to the Admissions Committee to start anew only if the period of interruption exceeds three years. A student who withdraws during his or her first term at the College of Law is eligible to apply for readmission in a subsequent academic year. The Admissions Committee may admit a student who was in good standing who has interrupted his or her study for a period of more than three years, but no academic credit will be given for courses taken prior to the interruption of study. The Admissions Committee may admit a student who has been academically disqualified at another law school only upon an affirmative showing that the student has the capacity to complete the College of Law’s program of study and be admitted to the bar. Such showing must include: 1) a demonstration of exceptional circumstances such as serious or extended illness, or serious family problems such as illness or domestic discord; and 2) a demonstration that the student has thoroughly analyzed the cause of his or her academic problems and has taken remedial steps. The applicant must satisfy all other College of Law admission requirements. No academic credit will be given for courses taken prior to the interruption of study or disqualification. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT