Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Success Resources / Transfer Students Transfer Students STUDENT SUCCESS RESOURCES Stress Relief Time Management Notetaking Goal Setting Test Preparation Academic Strategies Study Methods Study & Learning Apps Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students International Students Veterans Non-Traditional Students Commuter Students Current Students Locate the services and experiences that will help you succeed at TU. Support Services Accessibility – Provides leadership and support through inclusive and affirming practices in all campus programs, initiatives, services, and aids. Diversity and Inclusion – Furthers the University’s mission of educational excellence by creating an environment of equity and inclusion that values diverse life experiences, ideas, and perspectives. Counseling and Psychological Service Center (CAPS) – Offers clinical services to all students and a broad range of professional, educational, and consultative services to faculty and staff. CaneCares – Is a simple tool for you to communicate any concerns or observations you may want to share about a friend, neighbor, or your community. Student Services New Student Programs – TU offers programming all year to help students succeed quickly at TU and to take their first steps into the academic, cultural, and social experiences available across campus. Financial Aid – The University of Tulsa is committed to enrolling and graduating the most talented students by offering competitive recruitment and financial aid packages that make the university an option for high-potential students. CaneCareers – CaneCareers offers a lifetime of career assistance. Whether you are deciding on a major, exploring career options, finding an internship, planning for graduate school or landing that big job, we are here to help. Financial Wellness – TU’s Student Financial Wellness Program aims to provide students with the tools and resources to create a strong foundation for financial growth and personal financial success. Leadership Opportunities – Explore the variety of student involvement opportunities that are available at The University of Tulsa. Academic Success Advising – Professional Advisors empower students to develop personalized educational goals which align with their academic and career interests. Tutoring – Tutoring services at The University of Tulsa are designed to provide students with a space to cultivate knowledge of their course material and provide guidance through this learning process. Tutoring is free and available to all TU undergraduate students. Registrar – The Office of the Registrar provides academic and enrollment services for faculty, students and alumni. We are committed to providing quality services that enhance the educational experience. Bursar – The Bursar’s Office provides a variety of services including billing and payments, semester payment plans, check cashing, departmental deposits, agency accounts, third-party billing, student medical insurance enrollment and opt-out, student refunds, Federal Perkins student loans and transcript requests. Commencement – All information needed for Commencement is located here including information on how to fill out the application for graduation. Student Engagement Student Association – The Student Association strives to create and promote intellectual, social and cultural opportunities, to act as a catalyst for change within the university, and to advocate for the interests of the student body. Organizations – Find your place in a variety of clubs, activities, or groups to join on campus. Greek Life – The University of Tulsa is home to eight national fraternities and seven national sororities. These organizations represent the North American Interfraternity Conference, Independent Greek Council, National Panhellenic Conference, and National Pan-Hellenic Council, which govern the chapters at a national level. Student Life – Student Life creates experiences that allow students to build leadership skills, maintain health and well-being, and become contributing members of the community. Living Communities – Living communities are a great opportunity for students to develop a sense of belonging through intentional dialogue, informal interactions, and shared experiences. Student Experiences Experiential Learning – Students at TU have an insatiable passion for this journey, and it is at the Office of Integrative and Experiential Learning (OIEL) that they find the tools necessary to embark on their quest. True Blue Neighbors – True Blue Neighbors connects the TU community to over 80 nonprofit, government, and educational organizations through volunteer service, community service work-study, and experiential learning opportunities. Research – Research is the lifeblood of modern universities and a defining element of an institution’s character. New and exciting research opportunities occur across campus everyday. Global Engagement – The Center for Global Engagement offers rich opportunities to engage with the global community. International – With international students from over 70 countries, The University of Tulsa provides a safe and welcoming environment for students from all nations. At TU, faculty, administrators, students and staff value our diverse campus population because it enriches the educational experience for all. Health and Safety Health Center – The Alexander Health Center (AHC) provides care and treatment of minor illnesses and minor emergencies for all full- and part-time students. Campus Recreation – The Susie and Fulton Collins Fitness Center can elevate your fitness and health goals. Campus Security – Campus Security works around the clock to protect the well-being and safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors. From proactive campus patrols to crime prevention programs, your safety is our top concern. Title IX – Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in the University’s educational programs and activities. TU is committed to providing an inclusive and welcoming educational and working environment for all members of its community. Violence Prevention – Students at TU take care of themselves and one another. CaneCares is a simple online tool for you to communicate any concerns or observations you may want to share about a friend, a neighbor, or your community and provides a convenient way for you to step in and make sure a fellow student gets the help that they may need. Resources Technology – The Department of Information Technology is driven to achieve excellence through the design, development, and application of information technology in support of learning, teaching, research, service, and the facilitation of university business consistent with TU’s mission. Student Resources – TU ensures that students have the support in place to ensure they are successful both inside and outside of the classroom. TU campus resources are available to help students reach their goals. Parking – Parking and Card Services provides resources designed to support students, faculty, and staff as well as visitors to our campus. Bookstore – The Campus Bookstore sells textbooks, general interest books, Golden Hurricane merchandise, and clothing as well as convenience items. Other items you can find at the bookstore include study aids, school supplies, health and beauty supplies, and gifts. Campus Map – Resource to interactive, printable, and accessible campus maps. Around Campus Housing and Dining – The Office of Housing & Dining offers a variety of options to meet the needs and lifestyles of all students. So whether you prefer to live alone or with a group of friends, there is a place for you at TU. Student Union – The Allen Chapman Student Union serves as the community center for TU students, employees, alumni and guests. McFarlin Library – McFarlin Library exists to enrich the academic experience of TU students and faculty by providing access to our wide-ranging collection of electronic and print materials. Athletics – Get connected with TU Athletics and cheer on the Golden Hurricane! Events – Stay up to date with all the events going on at TU! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT