Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Services HQ / Housing & Dining / Closing Housing Information Closing Housing Information HOUSING & DINING Current Student Housing Selection Incoming Student Housing Selection Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing & Dining Requirement Welcome to Campus Dining Residence Hall Life Apartment Life Greek Housing Accessible Campus Housing Gender Inclusive Living Living Learning Communities 2021-22 Break Period and Closing Information DON’T FORGET YOUR MAIL – Before you leave for break or check-out, please pick up all your packages and empty your mailbox. If you are not returning until the spring term, it might be best to temporarily forward your mail through the USPS website. Make sure you pay close attention or change your default mailing address on your shopping accounts so you don’t accidentally send your packages to campus while you are gone. SEE YOUR BUILDING AND BREAK PROCEDURES BELOW FOR FURTHER DETAILS All residents PLEASE NOTE: If you intend to be gone for more than a few days or your building is scheduled to be closed for part of this period: Turn heat ON and set on low or 55 degrees in apartments (winter months) Clean your room/apartment. Remove items from shared suite bathrooms Remove all your trash to the dumpster. Remove all perishable food from your refrigerator. Unplug and prop open small refrigerators. Please unplug your personal appliances and electronics. Pack all items you will need, especially if you are not able to return as planned due to an unexpected quarantine or travel restriction. Including medicines, study materials, instruments, valuables, etc. Remove all plants/fish. Lock all doors and windows and turn off the lights. For the safety and security of all residents, we will be checking all residence hall rooms before Thanksgiving, winter, and Spring breaks. Residence Hall/Sorority/Sigma Nu Safety Inspections We generally conduct safety inspections in the Residence Halls/Sorority/Sigma Nu housing on a monthly basis and before breaks. This year, safety inspections will be performed the week of Nov. 8 and Dec. 17-19, and Spring Break Safety Inspections – March 9-11. For more information about the safety inspection process, please visit the safety inspection webpage. SEE YOUR BUILDING AND BREAK PROCEDURES BELOW FOR FURTHER DETAILS. UPDATED DINING INFORMATION: Dining Dollars are available during the Thanksgiving, Winter, and Spring break periods in dining venues. Meal plans and meal trades are not available during the break periods. Last Meal and Meal Trade before Thanksgiving Break: Dinner, Friday, November 19 First Meal and Meal Trade after Thanksgiving Break: Breakfast, Monday, November 29 Last Meal and Meal Trade before Winter Break: Dinner, Thursday, December 16 First Meal and Meal Trade after Winter Break: Breakfast, Monday, January 10 Last Meal and Meal Trade before Spring Break: Dinner, Friday, March 11 First Meal and Meal Trade after Spring Break: Breakfast, Monday, March 21 Last Meal and Meal Trade for Spring semester: Dinner, Thursday, May 5 Dining Dollars expire after Dinner, Thursday, May 5. All remaining Dining Dollars are forfeited. Please visit the Dining services site for the current operational schedule. 2022 RESIDENCE HALL SPRING CLOSING Residence Halls close: Sunday, May 8, 2022 at 3:00pm Your RA or housing staff will schedule Mandatory Hall Closing Meetings in your area. These meetings are very important for area-specific instructions regarding the checkout process. Room preparation for Checkout: * Remove posters, stickers, tape, decals, and memo boards from walls, ceilings, and doors. * Clean the sinks/bathroom (if you have one). * Clean and vacuum the floor. * Clean the dresser(s) and desk(s). Make certain you remove all belongings. * Assure that all University furniture is present, including trash can(s) and mattress pad(s). Reassemble beds!!! * Remove all non-university furniture such as couches, chairs, bookshelves, refrigerators, etc. * Remove all trash to the designated area of your building. * Close and lock your window and the last person to leave should raise the blinds. * Make sure the door is closed and locked when you leave to checkout. — IN-PERSON CHECKOUT OPTION: During normal business hours, you may check-out with the Department Assistant at the front desk of your building (West Suites: Please go to Campus Services HQ (formerly Housing and Dining Services) -OR- EXPRESS CHECK-OUT: Grab an envelope from the key drop box located near the mailboxes in your area, deposit your key into the an envelope and drop your keys no later than Sunday, May 8th, 2022 at 3:00 pm. Use the QR code to visit {link href=”https://utulsa.datacenter.adirondacksolutions.com/utulsa_thdss_prod/”link}Housing Self-Service{/link} to complete the online self-checkout process. — Checkout Inspections Checkout inspections will take place after your room has been vacated. A staff member will assess the room for any damages, then will evaluate whether any additional charges to your student account are needed. All charges related to damages or improper checkouts will be assessed by May 31. If you wish to appeal these charges, please email housing@utulsa.edu within 30 days of the posted charge and your department assistant will review. Failure to complete any of these instructions could result in an improper checkout charge of $25 plus the costs of rectifying the issues. Postal Forwarding Procedure: Residence hall students will need to go to https://www.usps.com to complete a forwarding address form. Be sure that you empty out your mailbox before you check out of your room. 2022 SORORITY AND SIGMA NU SPRING CLOSING Sorority Row/Sigma Nu Houses close: Sunday, May 8, 2022, at 3:00 pm. EXPRESS CHECKOUTS Note: End of Semester Checkouts begin April 15th. You are welcome to check out at any time during this extended check-out period, full semester charges apply. 1. Remove all items and following the instructions below for properly vacating your room. 2. Grab an express checkout envelope, deposit your key into the envelope and take both of these items to the key drop located at the Norman Village Clubhouse, no later than Sunday, May 8, 2022, at 3:00 pm. 3. Use the QR code to visit THDSS to complete the online self-checkout process. 4. With an Express-Check-out, your room may not be inspected until after closing. Room preparation for Checkout: * Remove posters, stickers, tape, decals, and memo boards from walls, ceilings, and doors. * Clean the sinks/bathroom (if you have one). * Clean and vacuum the floor. * Clean the dresser(s) and desk(s). Make certain you remove all belongings. * Assure that all University furniture is present, including trash can(s) and mattress pad(s). Reassemble beds!!! * Remove all non-university furniture such as couches, chairs, bookshelves, refrigerators, etc. * Remove all trash to the designated area of your building. * Close and lock your window and the last person to leave should raise the blinds. * Make sure the door is closed and locked when you leave to checkout. Checkout Inspections Checkout inspections will take place after your room has been vacated. A staff member will assess the room for any damages, then will evaluate whether any additional charges to your student account are needed. All charges related to damages or improper checkouts will be assessed by May 31. If you wish to appeal these charges, please email campusservices@utulsa.edu within 30 days of the posted charge and a staff member will review. Failure to complete any of these instructions could result in an improper checkout charge of $25 plus the costs of rectifying the issues. Postal Forwarding Procedure: Sorority and Sigma Nu students will need to go to https://www.usps.com to complete a forwarding address form. Be sure that you empty out your mailbox before you check out of your room. 2022 SUMMER SCHOOL HOUSING and INTERIM RESIDENCE HALL Need Housing after May 8? Students needing to live in Summer School Housing (Hardesty Hall) will be assigned on a first-come, first-served basis to a space in summer school housing. All students will need to go to https://utulsa.edu/housing and click on Housing Agreement to fill out the Summer Residence Hall Agreement. Athletes/Summer Housing Residents Overstay Requests Athletes and Summer Housing Residents that need housing past May 8, 2022, will need to complete a Housing Extension Request on Housing Self-Service. The request must be completed by May 1, 2022. All requests must be approved before you may plan to stay past the housing closing date. Pay special attention to the request responses for special instructions regarding the conditions of your overstay. Residence Hall Students Moving to Apartments Students currently living in Residence Halls or Sorority Houses/Sigma Nu who are moving to Apartments will be able to do so on Friday, May 21st at 9am. If you are needing Housing during the interim period, please fill out an extension request. 2021-22 THANKSGIVING/SPRING BREAK - All Residence Halls Housing: All residence halls will be open during Thanksgiving and Spring break. In order to provide an indication of who will be in the hall during the break, please fill out the “break” plans application on Self Service (available by Nov. 1 and March 9 each year) by selecting Applications. This information will be kept confidential and will only be used for university purposes. Room Reminders: Break time is a great time for cleaning BEFORE you leave. If you are leaving for most of the week, please clean out, prop open, and unplug refrigerator and all appliances, computers and all other electronics, clean your room, empty all trash and take to the outside dumpster for your building, close and lock all windows, close blinds, turn off lights, lock your room and take valuables home. Pest Control: Residence Halls are scheduled to be sprayed for pest control during the break: Monday of the break at John Mabee, Lottie Jane Mabee and Hardesty Hall; and Tuesday at Fisher South, West Suites and LaFortune House. This is scheduled to inconvenience as few residents as possible. Beyond reminders above, please cover all food items and move furniture and all belongings away from the walls. Staffing and Security: An RA will be on duty 24 hours a day in each residence hall. All policies and procedures will continue to be in effect. Remember, safety and security precautions are extremely important during low occupancy times. Please report suspicious persons to an RA, Department Assistant or Desk Assistant immediately, or call Campus Security at 918-631-5555. Also, please carry your student I.D. with you at all times and escort all friends at all times. Dining and Student Union: The Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will close after dinner on the last day of school before the break and reopen for breakfast on the Monday after the break. The following eateries in Allen Chapman Student Union will be available during break: WILL BE POSTED ABOVE 2021-22 THANKSGIVING/SPRING BREAK - Sorority Houses Housing: The sorority houses will close on the first Saturday of the break at noon and reopen the Sunday after the break at 9 a.m. If you need a place to stay during this period, please email housing@utulsa.edu by noon on the Wednesday before the break. Door Codes: Door codes to all houses will be disabled during this break period and you will not have access to the sorority houses. Please make sure to take any belongings you will need during this period as you will not be able to gain access. Room Reminders: BREAK TIME is a great time for cleaning BEFORE you leave. Please clean out, prop open, and unplug your refrigerator and all appliances, computers and all other electronics, clean your room, empty all trash and take to the outside dumpster for your building, close and lock all windows, close blinds, turn off lights, lock your room and take valuables home. Pest Control: Sorority Housing is scheduled to be sprayed for pest control during the break. This is scheduled to inconvenience as few residents as possible. Beyond reminders above, please cover all food items and move furniture and all belongings away from the walls. Dining and Student Union: The Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will close after dinner on the last day of school before the break and reopen for breakfast on the Monday after the break. The following eateries in Allen Chapman Student Union will be available during break: WILL BE POSTED ABOVE 2021-22 THANKSGIVING/SPRING BREAK - Sigma Nu House Housing: The Sigma Nu house will close on the first Saturday of the break at noon and reopen the Sunday after the break at 9 a.m. If you need a place to stay during this period, please email housing@utulsa.edu by noon on the Wednesday before the break. House Access: The house’s card reader will be disabled during this break period and you will not have access to the house. Please make sure to take any belongings you will need during this period as you will not be able to gain access. Room Reminders: BREAK TIME is a great time for cleaning BEFORE you leave. Please clean out, prop open, and unplug refrigerator and all appliances, computers and all other electronics, clean your room, empty all trash and take to the outside dumpster for your building, close and lock all windows, close blinds, turn off lights, lock your room and take valuables home. Pest Control: The Sigma Nu House is scheduled to be sprayed for pest control during the break. This is scheduled to inconvenience as few residents as possible. Beyond reminders above, please cover all food items and move furniture and all belongings away from the walls. Dining and Student Union: The Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will close after dinner on the last day of school before the break and reopen for breakfast on the Monday after the break. The following eateries in Allen Chapman Student Union will be available during break: WILL BE POSTED ABOVE 2021-22 ALL BREAKS - Apartments University Apartments are open year-round; however, during the break periods, the campus has lower occupancy and fewer students around. Please take note, and always lock your doors and windows, even when you are at home. COLD WEATHER WARNING: Each apartment resident is responsible for leaving the HEAT ON in the apartment during cold weather, especially if you are leaving town. Freezing temperatures can cause pipes to freeze and burst, causing thousands of dollars in damage. Residents of the apartment are responsible for any damage caused by turning the heat off or allowing the electric account to be turned off in freezing temperatures. REFRIGERATOR WARNING – During breaks and time away from campus, power outages are possible. If you are leaving campus for more than a couple days, PLEASE REMOVE ALL PERISHABLE food from your refrigerator. Dining and Student Union: The Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will close after dinner on the last day of school before the break and reopen for breakfast on the Monday after the break. The following eateries in Allen Chapman Student Union will be available during break: TBA – Please check back Housing Cancellations If you are leaving the university for any reason at the end of the Fall term, you must complete a Request to Cancel Form and receive approval. The Request to Cancel Form is available in the Housing Self-Service site under “Applications/Agreements.” All Cancellation Paperwork must be completed and approved prior to 5:00PM on December 17, 2021, before you will be allowed to checkout. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures 2021-22 WINTER BREAK - John Mabee, Lottie Jane, and Fisher South Halls Buildings Lock-Down for No-Access: Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 12:00pm Dining Services Close: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will serve the last meal and allow the last Meal Trade before break at dinner on Thursday, December 16, 2021. Exam Quiet Hours Beginning Monday, December 6, 2021, at 5pm, through the end of the exam period, a mandatory 24-hour quiet hour policy will be in effect. Please be considerate of your neighbors during this time. Music, if played, should not be discernible out of the immediate room, conversations in hallways should be at extremely low volume, etc. Violations will result in automatic fines and/or other student conduct action. Closing Floor Meeting Floors or Houses may elect to host December Closing Meetings. It is strongly encouraged to attend one of these meetings to learn the specifics of your area as required. Residence Halls Open: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00am Dining Services Open: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union resumes meals and meal trades with breakfast on Monday, January 10, 2021. Meal Plan Changes If you wish to change your meal plan, you must do so by 12:00pm on January 14, 2022. Please come to the Housing and Dining Services Office, Fisher Hall, to fill out a change form. Returning to Current Assignment Procedures Make sure you follow the checklist below before leaving for the semester, otherwise you could be charged for improper closing procedure, cleaning or removal charges. Excessively dirty rooms/suites may necessitate cleaning charges. In addition, extensive pest control treatment will take place. Close and lock windows Empty trash outside into the dumpster Shut off lights Clean room/suite/bath area Close blinds Remove all holiday decorations Unplug all appliances, including refrigerators and leave propped open Put heat on low, not off Remove all fish and plants It is advisable to take valuables home as the University will not be responsible for them Residents of the Sorority Houses should remove all personal items from the bathrooms, as they will be cleaned over the break. Thank you for following these instructions and watch for further information to come through your Residence Life Coordinator and/or Residence Hall Department Assistant. Assignment Changes & Cancellation Procedures Room/Hall Changes For Spring Semester All room changes and change forms must be completed prior to break to avoid a $50.00 processing fee. This includes completing the Room/Hall Change Request Form, moving your belongings, and checking out of your current assignment. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Students Moving To Greek Housing All 1st Year Students moving to Fraternity or Sorority Row from a residence hall must have all paperwork complete by December 10, 2021 and be completely moved and checked out of your residence hall space by Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Only current first year students are granted permission to move to a Fraternity House. Please consult Rights, Responsibilities, and Safety on The University of Tulsa Housing website for further information. If you have further questions, please contact the Housing Office or your current Hall Department Assistant. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. All Sorority residents checking out of their current room will need to return their key to the Norman Village Clubhouse key drop by the main doors to the clubhouse Residence Hall to Apartment Changes for Spring Semester If you have received an apartment for the Spring semester, you must remove all your belongings and checkout by December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Housing Cancellations If you are leaving the university for any reason at the end of the Fall term, you must complete a Request to Cancel Form and receive approval. The Request to Cancel Form is available in the Housing Self-Service site under “Applications/Agreements.” All Cancellation Paperwork must be completed and approved prior to 5:00PM on December 17, 2021, before you will be allowed to checkout. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Checkout Options and Procedures We offer two types of checkouts: Express Checkouts and Staff Checkouts. Note: This is only for residents not returning to their same room or not returning to TU next semester Express Checkout: Express Checkout Forms are available from the Residence Hall Department Assistant once you are approved for checking out. The Express Checkout allows you to checkout at any time you want. The inspection will take place after your checkout and are responsible for payment of any damage charges within 30 days of posting. Once you are ready to checkout and leave, take the key to the key drop near the mail boxes of your building and then fill out the Express Checkout option under your room assignment on Self Service. Failure to do so may result in an improper checkout and you may be assessed a fee. Staff Checkout: A staff checkout occurs during the hours 8:00 am – 9:00 pm. With this checkout you will be given the opportunity to be a part of the checkout inspection. These checkouts will take approximately 15-20 minutes. Mon- Fri 8:00 am – 11:45 am and 1:15pm – 4:45pm will be conducted by the Residence Hall Department Assistant. Sign up for a checkout time on Self Service and then visit the front desk at that time. They will verify you are approved to checkout and will go to your room and complete an inspection. All other times will be conducted by a student staff member or Residence Life Coordinator. You will need to sign up for a checkout time via the link in the email sent to you when you were approved for checkout. You will need to accomplish this 24 hours before your checkout time. You will meet a staff member at the front desk. 2021-22 WINTER BREAK - Hardesty Hall, West Suites, and LaFortune ALL Residence Hall Front Desks and RA staffing end: Sunday, December 19, 2021 @ 12:00pm Campus Security (918) 631-5555 Remains open 24/7 throughout break for emergency and lockout services. Dining Services Close: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will serve the last meal and allow the last Meal Trade before break at dinner on Thursday, December 16, 2021. Residence Hall RA Staffing resume: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00am Dining Services Open: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union resumes meals and Meal Trades with breakfast on Monday, January 17, 2022. Exam Quiet Hours Beginning Monday, December 6, 2021, at 5:00pm, through the end of the exam period, a mandatory 24-hour quiet hour policy will be in effect. Please be considerate of your neighbors during this time. Music, if played, should not be discernible out of the immediate room, conversations in hallways should be at extremely low volume, etc. Violations will result in automatic fines and/or other disciplinary action. Winter Floor Meeting Floors or Houses may elect to host December Winter Meetings. It is strongly encouraged to attend one of these meetings so you may now the specifics of your area as required. Meal Plan Changes If it is necessary to change your meal plan, it must be done by 12:00pm on January 14, 2022. Please come to the Housing and Dining Services Office, Fisher Hall, to fill out a change form. RESIDENTS STAYING DURING WINTER BREAK For safety purposes, we ask that any resident that will be residing in Hardesty, LaFortune or Fisher West Suites fill out the Winter Break Housing Form on Self Service. Residents choosing to stay in Hardesty, LaFortune, or West Suites during Winter Break should contact TU Campus Security at (918-631-5555) for any emergencies during the break period. The front desk will not be open during Winter Break outside of business hours, and the University is closed between December 24th and January 3rd. There will be a kiosk at the front desk for information and assistance. Please take precautions to keep your area secure by not allowing any persons to enter the building with you unless they are your guest or a resident of the building. Contact Security if you see any suspicious persons or have any security concerns. Contact Security if you are locked out of your room and need access to your room. Be prepared to show your TU ID. The Fisher West Suites trash chutes will be locked during Winter Break, please use the dumpsters located in the parking lot. Returning to Current Assignment Procedures Make sure you follow the checklist below before leaving for the semester, otherwise you could be charged for improper closing procedure, cleaning or removal charges. Excessively dirty rooms/suites may necessitate cleaning charges. In addition, extensive pest control treatment will take place. Close and lock windows Empty trash outside into the dumpster Shut off lights Clean room/suite/bath area Close blinds Remove all holiday decorations Unplug all appliances, including refrigerators and leave propped open Put heat on low, not off Remove all fish and plants It is advisable to take valuables home as the University will not be responsible for them Residents of the Sorority Houses should remove all personal items from the bathrooms, as they will be cleaned over the break Thank you for following these instructions and watch for further information to come through your Residence Life Coordinator and/or Residence Hall Department Assistant. Assignment Changes & Cancellation Procedures Room/Hall Changes for Spring Semester All room changes and change forms must be completed prior to break to avoid a $50.00 processing fee. This includes completing the Room/Hall Change Request Form, moving your belongings, and checking out of your current assignment. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Students Moving to Greek Housing All 1st Year Students moving to Fraternity or Sorority Row from a residence hall must have all paperwork complete by December 10, 2021 and be completely moved and checked out of your residence hall space by Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Only current first year students are granted permission to move to a Fraternity House. Please consult Rights, Responsibilities, and Safety on The University of Tulsa Housing website for further information. If you have further questions, please contact the Housing Office or your current Hall Department Assistant. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. All Sorority residents checking out of their current room, will need to return their key to the Norman Village Clubhouse key drop by the main doors to the clubhouse Residence Hall to Apartment Changes for Spring Semester If you have received an apartment for the Spring semester, you MUST be packed and ready to move to your apartment on Thursday, January 13, 2022 between 9:00am to 12:00pm unless notified by Housing staff that your apartment is ready earlier. If you plan to leave for the break and not return until January 7, 2022, you must remove all your belongings and checkout by December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Housing Cancellations If you are leaving the university for any reason at the end of the Fall term, you must complete a Request to Cancel Form and receive approval. The Request to Cancel Form is available in the Housing Self-Service site under “Applications/Agreements.” All Cancellation Paperwork must be completed and approved prior to 5:00PM on December 17, 2021, before you will be allowed to checkout. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Residence Hall Department Assistant for paperwork and for more information. Checkout Options and Procedures We offer two types of checkouts: Express Checkouts and Staff Checkouts. Express Checkout: Express Checkout Forms are available from the Residence Hall Department Assistant once you are approved for checking out. The Express Checkout allows you to checkout at any time you want. When you drop off your key, please also go to Self Service to complete the express checkout there. The inspection will take place after closing and you are responsible for all payment within 30 days of posting any damages. Staff Checkout: A staff checkout occurs during the hours 8:00 am – 9:00 pm. With this checkout you will be given the opportunity to be a part of the checkout inspection. These checkouts will take approximately 15-20 minutes. You need to sign up for a check-out time at least 24 hours before your desire departure. Failure to do so may result in an improper checkout and you may be assessed a fee. Mon- Fri 8:00 am – 11:45 am and 1:15 pm – 4:45 pm will be conducted by the Residence Hall Department Assistant. Visit the front desk where your Department Assistant is and tell them you need to checkout. They will verify you are approved to checkout and will go to your room and complete an inspection. All other times will be conducted by a student staff member or Residence Life Coordinator. You will need to sign up for a checkout time via the link in the email sent to you when you were approved for checkout. You will need to accomplish this 24 hours before your checkout time. You will meet a staff member at the front desk. * West Suites residents during business hours should proceed to the Main Housing Office to checkout. We wish you a happy and safe break and look forward to seeing you in the Spring. 2021-22 WINTER BREAK - Sorority Row Houses Lock-Down for No-Access: Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 12:00pm Dining Services Close: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will serve the last meal and allow the last Meal Trade before break at dinner on Thursday, December 16, 2021. Sorority Houses Open: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00am Dining Services Open: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union resumes meals and Meal Trades with breakfast on Monday, January 14, 2021. Meal Plan Changes If you wish to change your meal plan, you must do so by 12:00pm on January 14, 2022. Please come to the Housing and Dining Services Office, Fisher Hall, to fill out a change form. Returning to Current Assignment Procedures Make sure you follow the checklist below before leaving for the semester, otherwise you could be charged for improper closing procedure, cleaning or removal charges. Excessively dirty rooms/suites may necessitate cleaning charges. In addition, extensive pest control treatment will take place. Close and lock windows Empty trash outside into the dumpster Shut off lights Clean room/suite/bath area Close blinds Remove all holiday decorations Unplug all appliances, including refrigerators and leave propped open Remove all fish and plants It is advisable to take valuables home as the University will not be responsible for them Thank you for following these instructions and watch for further information to come through your Residence Life Coordinator and/or Residence Hall Department Assistant. Assignment Changes & Cancellation Procedures Room Changes For Spring Semester All room changes and change forms must be completed prior to break to avoid a $50.00 processing fee. This includes completing the Room/Hall Change Request Form, moving your belongings, and checking out of your current assignment. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit the Housing Office in Fisher South for paperwork and for more information. Sorority to Apartment Changes for Spring Semester If you have received an apartment for the Spring semester, you must remove all your belongings and checkout by December 19, 2021 at 3:00pm. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit the Norman Village Clubhouse for paperwork and for more information. Housing Cancellations If you are leaving the university for any reason at the end of the Fall term, you must complete a Request to Cancel Form and receive approval. The Request to Cancel Form is available in the Housing Self-Service site under “Applications/Agreements.” All Cancellation Paperwork must be completed and approved prior to 5:00PM on December 17, 2021, before you will be allowed to checkout. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit the Housing office in Fisher Hall for paperwork and for more information. Sorority Express Checkout: Express Checkout Forms are available from the Housing office in Fisher South or the Norman Village Clubhouse, once you are approved for checking out. The Express Checkout allows you to checkout at any time you want. The inspection will take place after your checkout and you will be responsible for payment/appeal of posted damages within 30 days. Once you are ready to checkout and leave, take the key to the key drop near the mail boxes of your building and then fill out the Express Checkout option under your room assignment on Self Service. Failure to do so may result in an improper checkout and you may be assessed a fee. 2021-22 WINTER BREAK - Sigma Nu Sigma Nu House Lock-Down for No-Access: Sunday, December 19, 2021 at 12:00pm Dining Services Close: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will serve the last meal and allow the last Meal Trade before break at dinner on Thursday, December 16, 2021. Sigma Nu House Opens: Friday, January 7, 2022 at 9:00am Dining Services Open: Pat Case Dining Center at the Student resumes meals with breakfast on Monday, January 10, 2022. Meal Plan Changes If you wish to change your meal plan, you must do so by 12:00pm on January 14, 2020. Please come to the Housing and Dining Services Office, Fisher Hall, to fill out a change form. Returning to Current Assignment Procedures Make sure you follow the checklist below before leaving for the semester, otherwise you could be charged for improper closing procedure, cleaning or removal charges. Excessively dirty rooms/suites may necessitate cleaning charges. In addition, extensive pest control treatment will take place. Close and lock windows Empty trash outside into the dumpster Shut off lights Clean room/suite/bath area Close blinds Remove all holiday decorations Unplug all appliances, including refrigerators and leave propped open Remove all fish and plants It is advisable to take valuables home as the University will not be responsible for them Thank you for following these instructions and watch for further information to come through your Residence Life Coordinator and/or the LaFortune House Department Assistant. Assignment Changes & Cancellation Procedures Room Changes For Spring Semester All room changes and change forms must be completed prior to break to avoid a $50.00 processing fee. This includes completing the Room/Hall Change Request Form, moving your belongings, and checking out of your current assignment. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit your Department Assistant at the LaFortune front desk for paperwork and for more information. Sigma Nu to Apartment Changes for Spring Semester If you have received an apartment for the Spring semester, you must remove all your belongings and checkout by December 20, 2020 at 3:00pm. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit the Department Assistant at the LaFortune front desk for paperwork and for more information. Housing Cancellations If you are leaving the university for any reason at the end of the Fall term, you must complete a Request to Cancel Form and receive approval. The Request to Cancel Form is available in the Housing Self-Service site under “Applications/Agreements.” All Cancellation Paperwork must be completed and approved prior to 5:00PM on December 18, 2020, before you will be allowed to checkout. Once approved, you will receive an email with detailed checkout procedures and link to sign up for a checkout. Visit the Housing office in Fisher Hall for paperwork and for more information. Express Checkout: Express Checkout Forms are available from the Department Assistant at the LaFortune front desk or the Norman Village Clubhouse, once you are approved for checking out. The Express Checkout allows you to checkout at any time you want. The inspection will take place after your checkout and you will be responsible for payment/appeal of posted damages within 30 days. Once you are ready to checkout and leave, take the key to the key drop near the mail boxes of your building and then fill out the Express Checkout option under your room assignment on Self Service. Failure to do so may result in an improper checkout and you may be assessed a fee. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT