Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sexual Violence Prevention & Education / Resources Resources SEXUAL VIOLENCE PREVENTION & EDUCATION Reporting Sexual Violence Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Advocacy Alliance Campus Climate Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies & Laws Alcohol & Consent Frequently Asked Questions If you are in immediate danger, call 9-1-1 Tulsa Police Department 911 – 24 hours Online and in person sexual assault, domestic/dating violence and stalking resources The TU/DVIS Survivor Advocate is reachable by phone/email/Teams Pauli Younger 918-631-2965 tu2965@utulsa.edu Local resources: DVIS Mental Health Association of Oklahoma free online groups National resources: National Domestic Violence Hotline 800-799-7233 or TTY 800-787-3224 or CHAT at thehotline.org 741-741 (text START to be connected via chat to a professional counselor) National Sexual Violence Resource Center Internal Resources Title IX Coordinator – 918-631-2321 To raise concerns or to file a complaint under the Title IX Policy, contact Kathleen Smith at TitleIX@utulsa.edu, 918-631-2321. For more information please view the Notice of Rights under Title IX. For those wishing to press charges in Tulsa County but are not experiencing an emergency, call 918-596-9222 to reach an operator. Survivor Advocate (DVIS) – 918-631-2965 TU’s survivor advocate is available during regular business hours and by appointment to provide assistance with resources and advocacy. The survivor advocate can assist in the following: safety planning, facilitating SANE Exams, filing a protective order, accompaniment to court hearings, advocacy while speaking with law enforcement or campus security and a number of other services. Please contact the survivor advocate’s office in Hardesty Hall at 918-631-2965 if you have questions or to request assistance. Dean of Students – 918-631-2742 The Dean of Students or designee is available to help and work with students throughout the process, addressing short-term and long-term personal or academic issues that might arise, including options for assistance with changing academic, living, transportation and working situations if requested and available. Visit the Office of Student Affairs. 918-631-2742 Hardesty Hall, Room 3130 Office of Campus Security – 918-631-5555 Campus Security urges anyone who has experienced sexual violence to call 918-631-5555 immediately. A campus security officer can also be summoned by pressing the red button on any of the emergency phones (blue lights) or the phones outside residence halls located throughout the campus community. Campus Security recommends the prompt reporting of sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking. However, reports filed at a later date are also received. Reporting an incident does not obligate a person to press charges. 918-631-5555 3115 E. 8th St. TU Counseling and Psychological Services – 918-631-2200 Located inside the Holmes Student Center, TU Counseling and Psychological Services provide free and confidential counseling services. Appointments may be made either in person or by calling 918-631-2200. In the event of a crisis after regular hours, call Campus Security at 918-631-5555, and request to speak with the on-call counselor. A counselor will contact you as soon as possible and/or Campus Security will facilitate other immediate supports for you. Twenty-four-hour back-up rape crisis counseling is also available through DVIS by calling 918-7HELPME (918-743-5763). 918-631-2200 2946 E. 5th St. Alexander Health Center – 918-631-2241 Physicians and nurses provide ongoing and follow up health care services for students, including pregnancy testing, counseling, referral services, sexually transmitted disease testing, diagnosis and treatment. The Alexander Health Center offers follow up care, including health care services for students who have chosen not to seek care immediately after an assault. The center is open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., closed 12 p.m. to 1 p.m., Monday through Friday, and open until 9 p.m. on Tuesday evenings during the academic year. 918-631-2241 2946 E. 5th St. Primary Contact Network At any time, students may contact a member of the Primary Contact Network who is trained to respond to complaints of sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. All Primary Contacts (unless designated with a *) are considered mandatory reporters of TIX incidents and Clery Act crimes, but are able to submit anonymous reports. Members of the Primary Contact Network are also available to answer any general questions related to sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking, and can help with: Finding emotional support Getting medical care Reporting the crime to the police Preserving evidence and pressing charges Obtaining information regarding the rights of complainants and the university’s responsibilities regarding orders of protection, no-contact orders, and other similar court orders Adjusting living arrangements Managing academic obligations Getting counseling Referring complaints of sexual harassment to the Title IX coordinator For more information, visit the Office of Student Affairs Primary Contacts: Kathleen Smith, Fisher West, Room 203A, 918-631-2321 Kelsey Hancock, 918-631-2324 Pauli Younger (DVIS), Hardesty Hall, Room 3145, 918-631-2965* Michael McClendon, Hardesty Hall, Room 3175, 918-631-2742 Counseling and Psych Services, Hardesty Hall, Third Floor, 918-631-2200* Joanne Davis, Lorton Hall, Room 308G, 918-631-2875 Schnea Nealy, Case Athletic Complex, Third Floor, 918-631-2255 Kyle Meador, Hardesty Hall, Third Floor, 918-631-3590 Dave Kobel, Hardesty Hall, Second Floor, 918-631-3814 This project was supported by Grant No. _2016-WA-AX-0007__ awarded by the Office on Violence Against Women, U.S. Department of Justice. The opinions, findings, conclusions, and recommendations expressed in this publication/program/exhibition are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women. External Resources DVIS Advocate on TU’s Campus: 918-631-2965 The DVIS advocate at TU is available during regular business hours to assist with issues surrounding interpersonal violence. This is a free service offered to all members of the TU campus community including students, staff, and faculty. The list below is not all-inclusive, but does cover many of the services provided by the DVIS advocate. Provide advocacy to victims of interpersonal crimes Safety planning Crisis intervention both in person and over the phone Answer questions about interpersonal violence and the process of reporting on campus Assist in filing Protective Orders Accompaniment to court hearings Accompaniment to SANE exams Advocacy while speaking with campus security, law enforcement, or other services DVIS – 24 hour: 918-743-5763 All services at DVIS are offered free of charge (with the exception of offenders programs) and are available in both Tulsa and Creek Counties. The list below is not all-inclusive, but does cover many of our programs and services. Advocacy and counseling services Safety planning both in person and over the phone Crisis intervention Referrals to other community resources Shelter and safe housing Legal assistance (within certain financial guidelines) and court advocacy Offenders programming Community outreach and educational services Sexual assault services including SANE exam advocacy The Family Safety Center: 918-742-7480 The Family Safety Center is a site in downtown Tulsa that provides a one-stop-shop to victims of interpersonal violence including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Services are available to people of all ages and a number of offices have representatives present at the Family Safety Center. Emergency protective order filings Law enforcement reporting options Chaplain services Childcare during filing and court hearings Civil legal assistance and advice DA staff on site for consultation Medical forensic exams Safety planning/education Referrals to various community resources/partners Oklahomans For Equality (OkEq): 918-743-4297 Oklahomans for Equality (OkEq) seeks equal rights for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) individuals and families through advocacy, education, programs, alliances, and the operation of the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center. For members of the LGBT community OkEq can provide targeted resources and support in a comforting environment. Supportive community of staff and volunteers Rainbow library and art gallery Support groups Counseling services Targeted services for transgender persons, LGBT youth, LGBT older adults, and others Equality Business Alliance Services specifically for children and families Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault: 405-524-0700 The Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault is an organization devoted to supporting programs across the state of Oklahoma that address domestic violence and sexual assault. Provide training and resources to DV/SA programs Referrals to local DV/SA programs in communities across the state of Oklahoma Religious Organizations A variety of groups offer pastoral care and a community of faith to address individual needs. For a list of Campus Ministries and Churches or for more information, please contact Sharp Chapel at 918-631-2546. Online Resources Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network Hotline RAINN (Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network) is the nation’s largest anti-sexual violence organization. RAINN’s prevention and education efforts include working with the entertainment industry, the media, colleges and local communities to help raise awareness about issues related to sexual assault. Call 1-800-656-4673 (HOPE). www.rainn.org Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence & Sexual Assault The Oklahoma Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault is to organize and mobilize member programs to prevent and eliminate sexual and domestic violence and stalking in the State of Oklahoma and in Indian Country. www.ocadvsa.org LGBTQIA+ Resources The LGBTQIA+ Subcommittee compiled this document to help students and employees find resources that are friendly to our queer community. LGBTQIA+ Interdepartmental Resource Document 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT