Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Recreation / Fitness Center Information Fitness Center Information CAMPUS RECREATION General Information Intramural Sports Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Racquetball Courts Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Office Hours Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Closed Weekends and Holidays Contact Info Office: 918-631-2679 During Fitness Center Hours Front Desk: 918-631-3781 The Fulton and Susie Collins Fitness Center is a generous gift to the students of The University of Tulsa. Hours of Operation Fall & Spring Semester Hours: Monday-Thursday 6:00 AM – 11:00 PM Friday 6:00 AM – 8:00 PM Saturday 10:00 AM – 6:00 PM Sunday 12:00 PM – 11:00 PM Summer Hours (May 23 – Aug 19, 2022): Monday – Friday Noon – 8:00 PM Please note: The facility hours may differ during holidays and breaks. Please check our main page for announcements of closing or reduced hours. Facility Access <CLICK HERE> for Membership Form (not required for Full-Time students) Students: Full-time students enter at no cost with a valid TUID. Full-time Faculty/Staff and Retirees: Free membership. Must be renewed yearly in August. Student Spouses, Faculty/Staff Spouses, and affiliates: Annual membership for $180/year or $60/semester. Alumni: Are eligible to purchase a membership for the first semester after graduating for $60. After that first semester, membership is $120 per semester or $360 per year. Guests: Each member may bring two guests for a fee of $5 each. Guests must present a photo ID, be 18 or older, and sign a waiver. Community: Community members may purchase a membership to the racquetball courts only. <CLICK HERE> for more information. Children: Not open to those under the age of 18 (except for TU students). Visitors: Those who would like a tour of our facility are welcome to ask at the front desk or join one of the tours given through the admittance office. Spectators: Each member may bring up to two spectators to an event for $5/each. Spectators under the age of 18 are allowed but must always stay with the sponsoring member. General Policies Use of the Collins Fitness Center by members and guests is encouraged in a fun and safe manner. The following are provided for patron use: Exercise equipment Free weights Indoor track Fitness classes Intramural sports Three basketball courts (2 courts can be used for badminton, volleyball, pickleball) Ping Pong tables Equipment checkout (check at front desk) Free towel service (check at front desk) Locker rental (fee) Rental space (contact Asst. Dir. of Facilities) To ensure the safety of members and guests, as well as protect the facility and equipment, the following list of policies applies to all activity spaces. Specific activity spaces may have additional policies. The following are strictly prohibited: Smoking or use of tobacco, alcohol or drugs in any form is prohibited. Food is not permitted beyond the ID checkpoint. All beverages must be in re-sealable containers. Glass bottles and breakable containers are not permitted anywhere within the facility. Pets (excluding service animals). Bikes, hoverboards and skates of any kind. There is an outdoor bike rack to the west of our main entrance. Obscene, derogatory, or hostile actions (verbal or non-verbal). Inappropriate public displays of affections. Spitting is not permitted in the facility including water fountains. Headphones must be used with all personal listening devices. No photography or videography allowed. Baseballs, footballs, and/or softballs are not allowed inside the facility. Hanging on basketball goals and rims. Personal belongings, backpacks, and/or bags unsecured in activity areas. Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost or stolen items. Clothing and Shoes All members and guests must be wearing appropriate attire to utilize space as listed below: Shirts Upper body clothing should fully cover the chest and torso. Bottoms Non-athletic type pants such as jeans, khakis, etc. with rivets or zippers are not permitted in the weight room area. Shorts must cover the buttocks and groin when exercising or moving. Footwear Covered toe and closed-heel, non-marking, rubber-soled shoes are required in activity areas. High-heels, cleats, spikes, boots, and sandals in activity areas are not permitted. Jewelry Jewelry that presents a hazard to the user or to the facility equipment may not be worn. Locker Use 70 personal lockers are available in each locker room for rent on a semester ($15) or yearly ($45) basis. Locker rental is available through the office M-F 8:00am-5:00pm. Yearly rentals run from the first day of fall semester classes until the Friday before the next fall semester starts. Semester rentals begin on the first day of the semester and end the Friday before the following semester begins. Lockers must be cleaned out before the end of the rental period. Please Note: Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost, stolen, damaged or unattended items. Campus Recreation staff may not hold personal items for patrons. Leaving personal belongings in activity areas is prohibited. Wooden cubbies are available for day use across from the basketball courts for non-valuable items. Payments for locker rental can be made by cash or check at the front desk, by credit card during office hours or through the Marketplace <CLICK HERE> Facility Use The Collins Fitness Center is available to be used by students, active members and approved guests, for drop-in and open recreation use on a first-come, first-serve basis. Campus Recreation strives to ensure that no single activity, special event, and/or sport dominates the use of the fitness center. Courts 1 & 2 are set-up for basketball during informal recreation time. Court 3 can be used for badminton, volleyball, pickleball, speedminton or table tennis by request at the front desk. Kicking other members off the court is prohibited. The Multi-Purpose Room is available for informal recreation if there is no scheduled program. The Racquetball and Wallyball courts in Mabee Gymnasium are set-up to be used for those sports in which the area was designed. The courts are available for open recreation if there is no scheduled program or rental. Exclusive use is only permitted with the advanced rental or reservation of facility space. Equipment Checkout Sports equipment can be checked out at the front desk when a member trades their ID card for the equipment of their choice. Only one item can be checked out per patron. Guests are not eligible to check out equipment. Checked out equipment must be returned to the front desk by the end of the day. A member may be charged if equipment is damaged or not returned by the end of the day. Items available for checkout include: Basketballs (indoor use only) Volleyballs Soccer Balls Footballs Tennis racquets and tennis balls Badminton racquets and shuttle cocks Pickleball sets Table tennis paddles and balls Volleyball nets (outdoor use) The following indoor nets and tables are available for set up (inquire at front desk) Volleyball Badminton Pickleball Free Weight Area The following is strictly prohibited: Chalk Dropping free weights and bars to the floor Hitting weight plates or dumbbells together Use of free-weights on the track or near the cardio equipment Propping weights up against the mirrors Unloading a barbell via “dumping” which is lifting the unweighted side of the bar up to allow the weight plates to fall to the floor Performing any T-bar exercises without using proper machine or accessories. Please allow others to use weights, benches, and equipment in between sets. The use of a spotter for heavy lifting is recommended. Facility Attendants are available to assist participants needing a spotter. Equipment must be utilized in the manner for which it was intended. Standing on benches or equipment frames are not allowed. All equipment must remain in its designated area and be returned to its proper location after use. Re-rack dumbbells and plates after use. Patrons must use designated cleaning products (spray bottles and brown towels) to clean the equipment after each use. Cardiovascular Area During peak hours, please limit the use of cardiovascular equipment to 30 minutes. Moving equipment for any reason is prohibited. The use of free-weights on the track and near the cardio equipment is prohibited. Patrons must use designated cleaning products (spray bottles and brown towels) to clean the equipment after each use. Equipment must be utilized in the manner for which it was intended. Indoor Track Slower traffic should keep to the inside lanes; faster traffic should keep to the outside lanes Traffic should proceed in the designated direction as indicated by the sign. Multi-Purpose Room The following is strictly prohibited: placing equipment against the mirrors movement or use of the audio equipment or fitness equipment located in the room activities that can cause damage to the floors pulling of the partitions Lost and Found Any found items should be turned into the front desk. Campus Recreation is not responsible for lost or stolen items.. Staff members are not permitted to hold valuables. Found items are turned over to Campus Police each night. Inquiries regarding lost items should be made to Campus Police 918-631-5555. Advertising All advertising materials such as fliers and banners must be approved by the Office of Campus Recreation prior to posting. Advertising materials will be confined to designated bulletin boards. No fliers on the glass, windows or doors are allowed. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT