Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Human Resources / Employee Benefits Employee Benefits HUMAN RESOURCES Search Job Listings Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Under Federal Employment Laws Anonymous Reporting Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees ABOUT TU NEWS @ TU EXPLORE TULSA The University of Tulsa offers a variety of benefit programs and resources to its employees. From health plan options and wellness programs to continuing education opportunities and competitive retirement plans, the University is committed to providing benefits that matter to you at each stage of your employment. The Office of Human Resources is committed to providing excellent customer service, communications, and education to help you best utilize these valuable benefit programs. If you have any questions about our benefit plans, or need assistance with your benefits, we invite you to email hrbenefits@utulsa.edu. Medical Insurance and Prescription Drug Coverage Health insurance serves to protect you from large medical bills due to illness or injury. And it offers additional coverage that other insurance doesn’t, such as annual physicals and regular screenings to help maintain your overall health before major illness strikes are fitting examples of this extra coverage. Dependent Eligible: Yes Dental Insurance Dental hygiene and health are directly linked to health in other areas of the body, so it’s important to visit the dentist regularly to ensure that you are at peak oral fitness. There are some costs to going to the dentist, however, which is why good dental health coverage is key. Our dental plan provides preventive, diagnostic, and restorative care, as well as orthodontia services for eligible members. Dependent Eligible: Yes Vision Insurance Your eyes are constantly changing. It’s just a fact. Vision insurance makes sure those changes don’t lead to problems in the long term. Eye doctors are often among the first to catch chronic health conditions like diabetes and high blood pressure. Employees have the opportunity to enroll in low-cost vision coverage. Dependent Eligible: Yes Health Expense Savings Accounts The University maintains health plans eligible for the Flexible Spending Account (FSA) or the Health Savings Account (HSA), so employees have options when it comes to saving for future health expenses by setting aside tax-free dollars. Employees also have the option of opting in the FSA Healthcare and/or FSA Childcare. Life Insurance Life insurance can be there to help lessen the financial blow and help to provide coverage for expenses related to the passing of a loved one, making the grieving process easier. Benefit eligible employees are provided with a company sponsored life insurance benefit that is 1.5x their annual base salary. In addition, employees can elect additional life insurance for themselves, their spouse, and eligible dependents. Dependent Eligible: Yes Accident Insurance Accident insurance is a supplemental insurance that helps you pay for out-of-pocket medical and non-medical costs from an accident or injury. With accident insurance, you receive payment in the form of a lump-sum cash benefit that is paid directly to you, and not to the doctors and hospitals. Critical Illness Insurance Critical illness insurance provides additional coverage for medical emergencies like heart attacks, strokes, or cancer. Because these emergencies or illnesses often incur greater-than-average medical costs, these policies pay out cash to help cover those overruns when traditional health insurance may fall short. Short-Term Disability In the event of an accident, surgery, birth of a child, or personal crisis that prevents you from working and receiving your wages, short-term disability can provide an income source while you rest and recover. Long-Term Disability Insurance Long-term disability insurance is an insurance policy that replaces all or a percentage of your income if you become disabled due to illness or injury and cannot work. Benefit eligible employees are provided with a company sponsored long-term disability policy. Retirement Savings Opportunities The plan’s investments are managed by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF). The university’s retirement plan provides an employee with options to make voluntary pre-tax and/or after-tax contributions to the plan. Additional Benefits Tuition Assistance The tuition reduction discount offered by the university is 50% tuition discount during the first year of full-time employment and 100% tuition benefit after you have completed one year of continuous, full-time service. This benefit applies to you and your eligible dependents. Tuition Exchange Program Tuition Exchange is a reciprocal scholarship opportunity for the dependents of eligible faculty and staff at all 677+ individual member schools. Learn more about this program at https://www.tuitionexchange.org. Child Development Center The center, which has received NAEYC accreditation, offers quality all-day care, private kindergarten, and before and after school programs. Located at 3rd and Evanston, the center is open to serve university students, faculty and staff, and the general public on a space-available basis. The center offers discounts to university students, faculty and staff. Employee Assistance Program The University of Tulsa partners with The Standard to provide the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). This program connects employees with resources that can assist with managing life’s situations. The EAP provides for up to three free sessions per issue, so employees aren’t limited to choosing which life situation to seek help for. Holidays The university provides holiday pay for 12 standard holidays, including: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving (2 days), Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year’s Eve, plus one Floating Holiday. The university also provides Non-standard Holidays (dates to be designated each year by the president). Discounted Athletic Tickets Each full-time employee is eligible to purchase four half-price tickets to TU athletic events subject to availability and the athletic ticket office policy. Use of Campus Facilities Gilcrease Museum: Employees will receive a complimentary membership to the Gilcrease Museum. Health Center: Employees have access to a full-time physician for acute non-emergency medical conditions. Employees covered by TU’s BlueCross BlueShield medical plan may utilize the physician at no charge. Collins Fitness Center: Employees receive a free membership to this state-of-the-art facility. Library: Access to McFarlin Library. Student Union: Employees have access to the bookstore, mail services, and various dining options. Speech & Hearing Clinic: Employees and their eligible dependents are entitled to a 20% discount on services offered at the speech and hearing clinic. The discounted services may include speech, language and hearing evaluations; therapy in speech articulation, stuttering and voice disorders; lip reading and signing instruction; and training for the deaf. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT