Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Recreation / Jobs Available at Collins Fitness Center Jobs Available at Collins Fitness Center CAMPUS RECREATION General Information Intramural Sports Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Racquetball Courts Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Office Hours Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Closed Weekends and Holidays Contact Info Office: 918-631-2679 During Fitness Center Hours Front Desk: 918-631-3781 Campus Recreation relies on dedicated student employees to create an environment that is safe, enjoyable, and promotes well-being. Student employees have the opportunity to impact the community within the Collins Fitness Center, interacting with peers, faculty and staff, and other university affiliates who make up the TU community. For more information on currently open job opportunities, see the descriptions below. If you have additional questions, please contact Andrew Jones, Director (andrew-jones@utulsa.edu) Current open positions: Facility Staff Intramural Officials APPLY NOW Facility Staff - 70 positions Monitor access into the Collins Fitness Center and provide excellent first contact customer service Verify proper entrance into the Collins Fitness Center by verifying the patron has proper identification using Blackboard software Be knowledgeable of Campus Recreation programming, activities, policies, and procedures to best serve patrons Assist Building Supervisor with opening and closing procedures Enforce all Campus Recreation policies and procedures Assist the Building Supervisor with issuing guest passes, receipts, Assumption of Risk and Release forms and collection of money Maintain cleanliness of the Collins Fitness Center Facilitate and monitor all equipment check-out and check-in Report any risk management issues to the Building Supervisor Perform necessary maintenance of towels including cleaning, replacing, and distribution Clean assigned fitness equipment and other facility equipment as needed Re-rack weights in the appropriate location Provide Fitness Equipment orientations for patrons Assist with participant registration for group fitness classes and personal training Represent the department of Campus Recreation in a professional manner Maintain current First Aid, CPR & AED certification throughout employment (training provided by Campus Recreation) Other duties as assigned by Building Supervisor or administrative staff Wage $9.00-$11.25 per hour. Group Fitness Instructor - 10 positions Group Fitness Instructors lead members through group exercise activities. The instructor educates participants about useful and safe exercises, assists them in achieving exercise goals, and creates a fun workout environment for all participants. Wage of $20+ per class depending on certification and experience. Duties and Responsibilities Provide safe, effective and fun Group Fitness Classes: Greet all patrons and recognizes new participants Encourage new participants and makes them feel welcome Educate participants on safe techniques and exercise guidelines Instructs class to the ability level of the members participating Monitor participants through perceived rate of exertion and body language Demonstrate Professionalism and Communication: Present & accountable for all assigned classes on the Group Fitness schedule Secures a substitute instructor in a timely manner in the case of an absence Respond to e-mails in a timely fashion Willing and able to learn & teach a variety of formats Position Prerequisites and Requirements Must obtain CPR/AED certification before employment begins Hold a nationally recognized group fitness certification Must be able to teach at least two (2) scheduled group fitness classes per week Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Excellent time management and organizational skills Handle situations with fairness and tact Make quick and accurate decisions Possess excellent interpersonal, verbal, and written skills Be tactful, fair, efficient and friendly when dealing with patrons and co-workers Personal Trainer - 5 positions Personal Trainers deliver positive fitness experiences and quality personal training sessions leading to client acquisition and retention. Wage of $20+ per session based on certification and experience. Duties and Responsibilities Provide excellent Personal Training to University of Tulsa students and members of the Campus Recreation: Create climate that supports building healthy relationships between clients and their bodies Prepare and deliver comprehensive fitness programs based on clients’ goals that include appropriate exercise selection and teaching healthy lifestyle habits Provide general nutritional information, staying within the Personal Trainers’ scope of practice and referring clients to additional resources as appropriate Be knowledgeable about all of the healthy, active activities offered by Campus Recreation and refer them to Personal Training clients Set expectations and hold clients accountable through goal setting and assessment Demonstrate and cue safe and proper exercise technique to clients Arrive on time, prepared, enthusiastic and attentive for every training session Set an example by abiding by all Fitness Center rules when utilizing the fitness floor Complete Personal Training Log neatly an legibly for every training session with every client Maintain client records and additional documentation with the Fitness administration Maintain Communication and Professionalism at all times: Respond to all e-mails and communication in a timely fashion Keep Fitness administration informed of changes in contact information and availability Deliver appropriate levels of communication with clients outside of training sessions regarding scheduling, motivation, homework, and other training-related topics Dress as a fitness professional Position Prerequisites and Requirements Hold a nationally recognized Personal Training certification from ACSM, NSCA, ACE, NASM, or NCSF Must obtain CPR/AED and First Aid certification before employment begins and maintain certification throughout employment Upon review of application/resume, applicant may be invited for an audition/mock client session and interview to determine hiring Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Excellent time management and organizational skills along with interpersonal, verbal, and written skills Ability to research and find evidence based practices in relation to health and fitness guidelines Ability to handle situations tactfully, fair, efficient and friendly when dealing with clients, patrons, and co-workers Additional Information Clients are distributed among the Personal Training staff based on the availability of both the trainer and potential clients, specialties, and client needs and goals Intramural Officials - 10 positions The Intramural Sports official shall officiate and/or keep accurate records of contests on a nightly basis. The official is responsible for learning the rules for all sports he/she officiates. The official is charged with maintaining orderly conduct on the court or field. The official will be required to be able to communicate calmly and effectively with upset patrons while remaining upbeat and positive throughout the situation. The IMS official must be prepared to work in an athletically demanding environment and be dressed accordingly. Wage of $9-$11.25 per hour. General Responsibilities/Requirements: Represent the IMS program in a positive and professional manner Communicate effectively with participants and fellow IMS staff Arrive at work by the time designated by the schedule Positive and upbeat attitude day in and day out. Willing to give and take constructive criticism and learn from mistakes. Able to keep a cool head in the worst of situations with participants and staff. Conflict management skills Decision making skills BE PRO-ACTIVE IN DEALING WITH SITUATIONS, NOT REACTIVE. Specific Responsibilities: Submit to periodic evaluations, both written and verbal. Maintain an active email account that you check on a daily basis and respond to emails in a timely manner. Maintain an active WhentoWork account and keep availability updated on a weekly basis Locate team captains, sign in players, and check eligibility of team members prior to start of contest. Penalize and document and unsportsmanlike conduct by players, coaches, or spectators. Ensure that game equipment functions properly and that games are played under safe conditions. Report any needs to the supervisor on duty. Be willing to assist as needed in emergency situations. Know and enforce all policies, rules, and procedures. Deal courteously and consistently with IMS staff, fellow officials, participants, and spectators. Set up venue as needed with proper equipment. Sign in participants and enforce policies regarding ID’s, equipment, and jewelry. Clean playing areas of visible trash prior to leaving for the night. Take responsibility for all IMS equipment and ensure its safe use and safe return. Strive to maintain positive public relations; answer questions from participants or direct them to supervisor. Display positive sportsmanship while participating. Other duties as assigned. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT