Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sexual Violence Prevention & Education / Current Efforts / Get Involved Get Involved SEXUAL VIOLENCE PREVENTION & EDUCATION Reporting Sexual Violence Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Advocacy Alliance Campus Climate Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies & Laws Alcohol & Consent Frequently Asked Questions There are many ways to get involved in our efforts to provide support for survivors of sexual violence as well as in education around the elimination of sexual violence in our community. Please visit the following links for more information on how you can get involved. Below is a list of training and educational workshops that the Office of Violence Prevention offers. Please contact prevention@utulsa.edu to schedule a program. Bringing in the Bystander Learning Objectives: Participants will understand what a bystander is. Participants will understand the concept of bystander intervention. Participants will learn about their role as a bystander, especially as it relates to sexual violence. Participants will understand steps to bystander intervention and different ways to intervene. Participants will learn how to apply bystander intervention techniques to various scenarios. Safe Zone Learning Objectives: Participants will learn terminology and the importance of language in relation to creating affirming environments for LGBTQI folks. Participants will learn the difference between gender and sexuality and be able to identify the difference between the L, G, B, Q, and the T of LGBTQ. Participants will learn how to describe the difference between biological sex, gender identity, gender expression, and attraction and why it is helpful and important to recognize these different components within gender. Participants will be able to reflect and discuss what groups may have limited access to privileges and the effect that lack of access may have on an individual or groups of people. Consent Workshop Learning Objectives: Participants will be able to know what consent is and what consent is not. Participants will learn about factors that influence consent. Participants will learn how to obtain consent. Participants will learn how to provide consent. Participants will apply their knowledge to various scenarios related to consent. Dating and Domestic Violence Workshop Learning Objectives: Participants will learn what dating violence is, the prevalence rates, and college campus prevalence rates. Participants will learn about different forms of dating violence. Participants will learn how dating violence affects systemically marginalized groups. Participants will learn how dating violence affects victims. Participants will learn about resources related to dating violence. Stalking Workshop Learning Objectives: Participants will learn what stalking is, the prevalence rates, and what it can look like. Participants will hear examples of stalking and how to identify stalking. Participants will learn how stalking relate to intimate partner violence and the impact stalking has on the victim. Participants will learn what they can do if they experience stalking. Participants will learn about resources related to stalking. Healthy Interactions Learning Objectives: Participants will learn characteristics of a healthy relationship. Participants will learn the red flags and green flags in relationships. Participants will learn about boundaries and spend time reflecting on their own. Participants will learn how to engage in effective and healthy communication. Participants will apply the information they learn by role-playing multiple scenarios. *All programs can be tailored to your organization/department. *If your organization/department needs training/education on an interpersonal-violence-related topic that is not listed above, please reach out to prevention@utulsa.edu to let us know how we can support. Join a Student Advocacy Group The Student Alliance for Violence Education (SAVE) is a TU student organization focused on the prevention of interpersonal violence and promotion of awareness of issues related to violence. This student organization regularly sponsors events within this mission and routinely collaborates with the Advocacy Alliance on sexual violence prevention efforts on TU’s campus and in the larger community. Become a Student Trainer Students completing both the 90-minute and 4.5 hour Bringing in the Bystander programs are eligible to participate in Advocacy Alliance programming efforts as student trainers. Completion of these trainings and follow-up support and mentorship from more established trainers will support you in your goal of providing information and programming to others students on campus. Please contact Kelsey Hancock, 918-631-2324 at kelsey-hancock@utulsa.edu for more information about becoming a student trainer. TU Institute of Trauma, Adversity, and Injustice This interdisciplinary research institute brings together scholars, scientists, professionals, and students. We strive to be a center for foundational knowledge about trauma and adversity that is informed by diverse perspectives. The institute also provides resources and support to learn more about sexual violence. Please contact TITAN by email or by phone at 918-631-2875 for additional information about getting involved in research and programming related to sexual violence. Campus Security Campus Security offers a number of resources around self-defense. While the Advocacy Alliance recognizes that sexual violence is never the fault of the survivor, self defense can be more generally helpful in making individuals feel like they have more skills and resources to protect themselves from violence. The Rape Aggression Defense (R.A.D.) System is a program of realistic self-defense tactics and techniques for women. A comprehensive, women-only course, R.A.D. training begins with awareness, prevention, risk reduction and risk avoidance before introducing the basics of hands-on defense training. Learn more about the R.A.D. Program. The University of Tulsa works with Campus Security to ensure that their officers receive appropriate training to work with survivors of sexual violence. Additionally, departments that supervise student leaders, such as Resident Assistants and Orientation Leaders, ensure that their students receive training in responding to sexual violence as well as bystander intervention methods. There are many other ways that the university has actively worked to eliminate sexual violence on campus. Please contact the Violence Prevention Program Director, Kelsey Hancock at kelsey-hancock@utulsa.edu for more information. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT