Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Diversity, Equity & Inclusion / Diversity Action Plan Diversity Action Plan DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION Community Resources Multicultural Student Programs Diversity Action Plan Respect for Religious Diversity 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial I. Introduction Since its founding in 1894 as Henry Kendall College, The University of Tulsa (TU) has grown from its modest beginnings to become a preeminent private institution of higher education. Today, The University of Tulsa is home to more than 4,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students representing 73 countries, 1,250 faculty and staff with diverse backgrounds and experiences, and numerous alumni and friends residing in all corners of the world. For many of these individuals, TU represents the place where they were able to develop and cultivate their unique talents. Others hold in high regard the personal relationships that developed through their involvement with the university community. At the heart of both of these worthwhile outcomes, rests the union of diverse people, ideas, and perspectives. This is the sine qua non of a liberal education as TU endeavors to address the most pressing challenges confronting society. The University of Tulsa recognizes the importance of fostering an environment of diversity and inclusion on its campus and among its stakeholders. Guided by the core values of excellence in scholarship, dedication to free inquiry, integrity of character, and commitment to humanity, TU is committed to the education of people of diverse backgrounds and cultures. 1 The essence of this imperative lies not only in the important responsibility of attracting diverse populations to TU, but also in the continued growth and nurturance of a culture that values and builds upon our differences as well as our similarities. In doing so, this will enhance the totality and complexity of the educational experience for all. Realization of this institutional culture occurs not only inside the walls of the classroom, but through our involvement, interaction, and understanding of the larger community of which we are a part. We must be a community that recognizes the importance of different backgrounds, beliefs, and perspectives. Thus, we hold as paramount, the indispensable role that diversity plays in educating the whole person and promoting ideals of critical thinking, respect, citizenship, service, and an enthusiasm for lifelong learning. II. Background, Plan Purpose and Progress The President of The University of Tulsa, in collaboration with the Board of Trustees and senior leadership, established diversity as a strategic priority. In April 2015, the Faculty Senate submitted a resolution to the President recommending the appointment of a Chief Diversity Officer, and the organization and mobilization of a university-wide committee to develop a Diversity Action Plan. In July 2015, the President established the Office of Diversity and Engagement and appointed a Vice President to lead the University’s diversity efforts. Over the next several months, Office of Diversity and Engagement oversaw a wide range of responsibilities in furtherance of the University’s dedication to advancing principles of diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity. Two of the highest priorities of the Office of Diversity and Engagement are to promote college access and success for promising students of all backgrounds, and to increase faculty diversity. Since its creation, Office of Diversity and Engagement has been involved in a number of activities including faculty recruitment and retention, student retention initiatives, co-sponsorships for multicultural events, collaborations with TU’s industry partners who are interested in recruiting a diverse and inclusive workforce, and participation in diversity and inclusion events on and off campus. One of the most critical steps toward advancing the University’s goals and objectives in the area of diversity and inclusion was the establishment of the Diversity Advisory Council, an outstanding group of faculty, students, and staff charged with developing a Diversity Action Plan for TU. Representatives from all areas of the University have engaged in a diversity planning process that has created synergies across departments and functional units, resulting in increased attention to the continued cultivation of a campus culture supporting diversity and inclusion. In September 2016, subcommittees, chaired by Diversity Advisory Council members, began examining various aspects of diversity and inclusion at TU, including faculty recruitment and retention, student recruitment and retention, campus climate, diversity incentives and accountability, and many others. The first charge of the Diversity Advisory Council was to articulate a statement that would complement the University’s mission and demonstrate the importance of cultivating a culture of diversity and inclusion. 1 See University Mission Statement at https://utulsa.edu/about/mission/ Diversity Statement The education of people of diverse backgrounds and cultures lies at the heart of The University of Tulsa’s core values and mission. The University furthers its mission of educational excellence by creating an environment of equity and inclusion that values diverse life experiences, ideas, and perspectives. The University of Tulsa is committed to aligning its practices to cultivate a community that reflects these fundamental values and goals. Consistent with the goals and objectives articulated in the University’s mission and diversity statements, the Diversity Advisory Council then set forth to draft a Diversity Action Plan to guide TU’s collective efforts in this area. Premised on a commitment to support increased diversity, the Plan outlines three (3) strategic areas of focus: Foundation for Change: Building a More Diverse University Community; Inclusive Excellence: Creating a Supportive Environment for All; and Looking to the Future: Positioning the University for Positive Change. Furthermore, this plan promotes accountability and responsibility by articulating a set of well-defined goals, strategies, and action steps to enhance TU’s position as a diverse and inclusive university. Commitment from University leadership is a vital component of this plan, however, successful implementation will require involvement, support, and investment from all University stakeholders. To develop the plan, we used the Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award benchmarking metrics. While our review was not limited to the HEED criteria, those factors provided a useful framework for our examination of diversity at TU. Subcommittees conducted internal and external environmental scans of the University’s diversity landscape and reached preliminary conclusions. Following their initial review, the Diversity Advisory Council and subcommittees facilitated SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analyses that helped to identify areas of strength and those that might provide opportunities for improvement. Following their thorough examination of the status of diversity and inclusion at the University, subcommittees submitted reports with recommendations based on their findings. Of note, two specific dimensions of diversity addressed by the subcommittees–Leadership Commitment to Diversity and Funding and Financial Support–are incorporated throughout a number of the recommendations presented and have overarching implications for a broad range of strategies set forth in the Plan. III. Leadership Commitment to Diversity A key component to developing a genuine culture of diversity rests upon a deep commitment on behalf of the institution beginning with its Board of Trustees and President and extending outward to senior administration, faculty, staff, and students. According to HEED (2015-16), “true change in the dimension of diversity only results from a shared perspective of leadership that exists at multiple levels of the institution…It is not simply about presidential leadership, but also creating a multi-dimensional institutional commitment to diversity that includes senior leadership, vertical and lateral infrastructures, plans, incentives, and more” (p. 14). The importance of presidential and senior leadership toward our diversity efforts cannot be understated. Through the establishment and clear articulation of the institution’s vision with regard to diversity, those at all levels of the institution can begin to engage in an open dialogue, which can be utilized in the design and expansion of programs, processes, and procedures addressing components of our diversity plan. Leadership commitment to our ideals of educating people of diverse backgrounds and cultures, and promoting a diverse and inclusive environment in which all students can thrive, is critically important for the success of any such program. IV. Funding and Financial Support Achievement of the goals and objectives outlined in this Plan will require an additional investment of time and human capital, as well as increased coordination and collaboration between campus units. Moreover, we acknowledge that providing adequate financial resources commensurate with TU’s aspirations, as described in this plan, will be critical. This will involve the possible reallocation of existing resources, however, fundraising will continue to be essential in providing further funding for building the University’s diversity program. In HEED (2015- 16), “diversity financial systems are the most underdiscussed aspects of an institution’s diversity strategy” (p. 24). However, to make progress toward our identified goals outlined in the plan, we must also implement new funding mechanisms that are clear and actionable. More specifically, funding will be required for the establishment of additional need-based scholarships, the expansion of pre-matriculation summer bridge programing, and increased tutoring and academic support services. Additionally, the continued enhancement of diversity initiatives and grants to incentivize new projects will be an important element in helping to create, and ultimately sustain, an institutional focus on diversity. Other areas of attention include staffing, multicultural events, and creating awareness of diversity programs. Not all elements contained in this Plan will necessitate additional funding mechanisms; however, it is imperative to recognize that sufficient resources will be needed in order to make significant progress toward our goals. In an effort to identify ways to support and bolster institutional diversity, several promising opportunities exist. The Funding and Financial Systems subcommittee made several recommendations in this regard, including the creation and expansion of diversity-themed fundraising through the establishment of endowments for student scholarships, programs, and faculty support. Additionally, targeting alumni, friends, and corporate partners for annual support and special projects remains an area of tremendous potential. While all these funding opportunities present viable avenues for increased focus on diversity, it will also be critical that we create an awareness of these opportunities through maximum utilization of available communication mediums as well as through the coordination of efforts across all areas of the University. V. Foundation for Change Building a More Diverse CommunityAs outlined in the introduction, the heart of TU’s mission is the responsibility to educate people of diverse backgrounds and cultures. Therefore, TU must actively recruit and retain students who represent the diverse ideas, backgrounds, cultures, and experiences of the world. In addition, TU must ensure that faculty and staff mirror the diverse community TU hopes to create. Without this commitment to recruitment and retention, TU will be limited in its ability to create an inclusive environment. To that end, the Diversity Advisory Council has outlined the following objectives: Objective A. Recruit and Retain a Diverse Undergraduate, Graduate and Law Student Body Suggested Action Steps: Undergraduate – Student Recruitment Develop new need-based scholarship opportunities through endowment, cultivation of new industry partnerships, fundraising. Expand diversity scholarships and develop PR campaign around endowed scholarships and need-based aid to honor first students from underrepresented groups to attend TU or first minority faculty to teach at TU. Develop additional internship opportunities with industry partners who have diversifying the workforce as a strategic goal. Expand Admission staff to include a Director/Coordinator of Multicultural Recruitment to align with practices in peer/aspirant institutions. Enhance recruitment budget to increase multicultural recruitment events, including hosted campus visits and programming. Develop new diversity-targeted advertising and outreach campaigns through print publications and social media. Increase outreach to underrepresented students for University Ambassador recruitment Broaden articulation agreements with existing community colleges and expand such partnerships to other regional partners. Develop additional resources and partnerships for summer bridge programs for K-12 students. Promote affiliation with foundations such as POSSE, a college access program that partners with colleges and universities, and awards four-year, full-tuition leadership scholarships to its diverse scholars. Renew our partnership with YES Preparatory School, an open enrollment charter school system serving over 4200 low-income students at eight schools in Houston, with a large Latino student population. Measures: Amount of dollars raised for diversity scholarships Increase in enrollment of underrepresented students Extent to which diversity initiative fundraising is integrated into annual development operating plans Number of diversity-related prospects and donors compared annually Reduction of discount rate due to increase in scholarship funding Increase in applications generated due to diversity scholarships offered Impact Coordinator of Multicultural Student Recruitment and Community Outreach has on number of student prospects, applicants, enrolled students and community relationships Interest and yield influence from multicultural visits Evaluate influence of direct mail marketing plan Develop communication plan for underrepresented students and revisit plan annually Number of university ambassadors from underrepresented groups Increase in number and use of diversity-themed materials Increased application and enrollment activity of underrepresented students from TCC Enrollment of underrepresented students who attended summer bridge programs at TU Success rate of enrolling “partner” students to TU from schools such as YES Preparatory School Suggested Action Steps: Undergraduate – Student Retention Enhance Targeted Financial Aid and Scholarship funding to expand sophomore year financial aid program and similar retention initiatives. Increase staffing for CSAS, Counseling and other departments to improve utilization of retention tool and programs such as Retention Alert/Pilot. Identify targeted diversity training opportunity for students/Faculty/staff. Develop targeted programs and funding for free tutoring, diversity leadership incentive programming, etc. Improve dedicated spaces, advisers and support services for underrepresented students. Enhance Assessment surveys and coordinate assessment process across campus. Measures: Number and types of scholarships Ongoing assessment of Educational outcomes for students receiving scholarships Increase in types of trainings; ongoing evaluation of trainings Increase in number of retention and incentive programs Number and types of centers/spaces for diverse populations Suggested Action Steps: Law – Student Recruitment and Retention Update college’s diversity plan. Continue recruiting practices at colleges with significantly diverse student populations. Continue practice of cultivating diverse students as Student Ambassadors to help in recruiting. Fundraise for diversity scholarships. Augment resources for academic and bar preparation support. Measures: Statistical documentation of outreach effort and matriculation of diverse students Statistical documentation of diverse student retention Fundraising metrics Suggested Action Steps: Graduate – Student Recruitment and Retention Establish and fund new diversity assistantships, awards to cover SREB Doctoral Scholar fees, and cost of education allowance to recruit and retain diverse students through endowment and fundraising. Enhance our diversity pool of applicants through diversity targeted advertising, recruitment publications, website videos, outreach campaigns, campus visits, and recruitment events. Establish diversity recruitment funds for purchase of names through GRE Testing Service, development of diversity recruitment publications, increasing our outreach events, development of videos, and assistance with the cost of campus visits. Develop an ambassador program for recruitment and retention of a diverse graduate student community with the assistance of TU-SREB Doctoral Scholars and the Graduate Student Association. Provide professional development for the faculty to improve awareness of diversity and how to mentor diverse students. Measures: Amount of funded dollars raised to support diversity assistantships, SREB Doctoral Scholars, and cost of education allowance for those with financial need. Evaluate the response rate from direct marketing plan, evaluate attendance and follow up to outreach events, etc. Number of diverse students who enroll after campus visit Number of graduate students becoming ambassadors Over next five years, the number of TU-SREB Doctoral Scholars annually attending Institute on Teaching and Mentoring will increase from five to ten. Evaluate faculty attendance at SREB Institute on Teaching and Mentoring Objective B. Recruit and Retain a Diverse Undergraduate, Graduate, and Law Faculty Suggested Action Steps: Undergraduate and Graduate – Faculty Recruitment Establish a formal set of policies on search committee composition and training procedures, e.g. minimum number of diverse members, and diversity training session for search committee members. Establish and fund nationally competitive diversity postdoctoral fellowships at TU Establish a strategic plan for faculty diversity at the college level based on university’s strategic plan for diversity. Establish special funds to attract diverse candidates such as target of opportunity programs. Actively participate in national faculty diversity recruitment events and follow up with prospects and utilize networks to diversify applicant pools. Advertise TU’s faculty positions widely utilizing the SREB Doctoral Scholars website, diverse periodicals and job boards. Establish diversity faculty exchange programs. Regularize process of inviting diverse academics to campus to present at symposia. Network with diversity councils and counterparts at peer institutions to exchange best practices. Develop cadre of diversity hiring specialists among faculty and administrators in colleges. Measures: Establishment of a specific set of new policies and procedures regarding diversity and searches/search committees; and evaluation of the impact of those new policies Number of diversity postdoctoral fellowships Completion and implementation of college-level faculty strategic plans for faculty diversity Amount of funds raised for diverse faculty recruitment Number of faculty members, deans, department chairs attending recruiting events; number of potential candidates contacted, interviewed, hired Placement, number and duration of ads posted by each recruiting department Number of symposia and number of diverse faculty members visiting from other universities or presenting at campus symposia Development of diversity specialist training for the colleges; number of specialists selected and trained; number of diverse faculty hired following such training Note: To establish leadership and responsibility for promoting and fostering faculty diversity, the Subcommittee strongly recommends that the Board of Trustees set expectations that the President, Provost, VP of Diversity, Deans, Department Chairs and faculty are responsible for pursuing and maintaining a diverse faculty. The Subcommittee also recommends that the University administration provide an annual report on the status and continuous improvement of faculty diversity to the Board of Trustees. Law Recruitment and Retention Recruit and retain a diverse faculty (subject to current freeze on faculty hiring). Provide through the University or cultivate through fundraising sources of dedicated funding for diversity hires. Continue practice of targeting minority applicants through the Association of American Law Schools Faculty Appointments Register and Recruiting Conference. Measures: Increase in actual hiring of diverse faculty Undergraduate and Graduate – Faculty Retention Include information about diversity action plan initiatives during new faculty orientation to enhance understanding of campus culture in terms of our strategic goals, programming, training, and other areas. VPDE participates in new faculty orientation. Transform informal programs into uniform, formal ones – including but perhaps not limited to the following (in order of decreasing priority): Assure startup packages for diverse faculty are appropriate, such as summer research support, TAs, reduced teaching loads and other best practices Faculty mentoring Creation and fostering of new affinity groups, such as the women’s faculty group, for other diverse areas of the TU faculty Measures: Survey participants in new faculty orientation – Monitor implementation of this policy to transform informal programs into formal policies on a college-by-college basis. Number of colleges and departments formally participating Number of new affinity groups created. Total number of such groups. Frequency of meetings, attendance at meetings for new affinity groups Objective C. Recruit and Retain a Diverse Staff at All Levels of the University Undergraduate, Graduate, and Law Take proactive steps to advertise open staff positions in diverse periodicals where applicable. Increase awareness of hiring individuals and committees of University’s strategic goals for diversity. Increase diversity training for staff. Measures: Increase in staff diversity at all levels of the University Effectiveness of diversity training VI. Inclusive Excellence Creating a Supportive Environment for All At The University of Tulsa we strive to create an environment where all members of the TU community feel respected and supported as individuals and as part of a multicultural society. The idea of such an inclusive community does not require agreement on all topics but rather a safe and supportive environment that allows the free exchange of ideas and opinions. This will require not only campus-wide programming that addresses diversity and inclusion and supports multicultural students, faculty, and staff, but also ensures that participation in university programs and activities reflects the breadth of TU’s diverse community. Finally, TU must remain cognizant of the continued responsibility to be an accessible campus, taking special care to include students with disabilities in all areas of campus life. Objective A. Develop Signature, Campus-wide Programming Addressing Diversity and Inclusion Issues Suggested Action Steps: Create an annual forum to provide faculty, staff and students the opportunity to openly voice their opinions and concerns with administrative personnel. Encourage administrative and faculty to participate in annual forum. Market event series to the campus community. Compile detailed notes addressing the current campus climate to include in the forum discussion. Develop a yearly Campus Diversity and Inclusion survey available to faculty, staff and students. Incorporate current campus climate concerns/issues into survey questions. Measures: Evaluate success of annual forum based on the attendance of faculty, staff and students Conduct post event feedback surveys for annual forum Conduct follow-up events that focus on specific concerns that were addressed during the annual forum – Evaluate success of surveys based on the number of responses received Objective B. Create Support Structures for Multicultural Student Groups and Address Existing Needs of Multicultural Students Suggested Action Steps: Establish a designated support system for multicultural group outreach. Develop a multicultural mentor program to engage and serve multicultural students. Increase campus-wide collaborations between faculty, staff and student multicultural programming. Establish multicultural programs planning committee. Recruit faculty, staff and students to serve on multicultural committee. Measures: Meet with leaders of multicultural groups and organizations to assess their need in outreach programs Survey all multicultural programs to evaluate the number of participants in mentor programs Survey all multicultural programs to assess success and needs for improvement Evaluate multicultural program growth each year Evaluate recruitment and retention of multicultural group participants Number of collaborative multicultural programs among faculty, staff and students Objective C. Cultivate Faculty and Staff Diversity Resources and Support Structures Suggested Action Steps: Establish faculty and staff affinity groups based on interest. Survey faculty and staff to determine interest in specific affinity groups. Measures: Number faculty and staff survey responses Number of faculty and staff groups established based on survey results Objective D. Creating Opportunities for Underrepresented Students to Study Abroad Suggested Action Steps: Coordinate with the Office of New Student Programs and Student Affairs to develop opportunities for summer bridge programs abroad and marketed toward underrepresented and at-risk students. Allocate a part of Faculty Internationalization Grants to support the development of programs targeted at diverse, at-risk, and underrepresented student populations. Complete Diversity Abroad’s Access Inclusion and Diversity Roadmap to identify opportunities for growth and best practice. Grow and develop travel awards programs, such as the GlobeTrekker Award, to encourage and award diverse applicants. Work collaboratively with the Office of Nationally Competitive Scholarships to market scholarship opportunities to diverse and disadvantaged students. Partner with TU Yellow Ribbon Program to market study abroad and increase awareness among veteran population. Measures: Increase in participation of minority students studying abroad Increase in the participation of underrepresented students in study abroad Implementation of summer bridge programs abroad with a majority of diverse, underrepresented, or at-risk students Awards of Faculty Internationalization Grants in the aimed at diverse, at-risk, and underrepresented student populations Completion of Diversity Abroad Access, Inclusion and Diversity Roadmap Diversity of applicant and awardees of travel awards comparative to institutional diversity Semesterly presentations on Nationally Competitive Scholarships with an increase in diverse applications Semesterly presentations on Study Abroad and VA benefits with an increase in overall students abroad Objective E. Enhancing Disability Inclusion and Promoting Universal Design Suggested Action Steps: Define disability inclusion and diversity at the institutional-level. Implement a standardized statement on disability inclusion, expanding the current nondiscrimination statement, in all areas to highlight accessible programs and solicit accommodations for disability. Conduct climate surveys among students, faculty and staff around disability awareness, inclusion, needs, and services. Implement ongoing training and programming around disability awareness, inclusion, accessibility, and etiquette for faculty, staff, and students. Develop program for free tutoring available to all students. Develop endowment and annual funds for disability programming, scholarships, equipment, and physical plant updates. Measures: Creation and distribution of definition and statement with defined usage expectation Utilization of statement on print and digital publications Pilot survey and ongoing evaluation of survey results and response rates Development of “success stories” for print and digital publications Establishment and use of specific endowment and annual funds for disability inclusion projects and initiatives Analysis of classroom and facility needs in the area of disability inclusion Development of disability inclusion and universal design training program for faculty, staff, and students Implementation of tutoring program for all students and analysis of program usage over time VII. Looking to the Future: Positioning the University for Positive Change To meet the needs of the next generation of students, TU must ensure that its curriculum and environment support diversity and inclusion and that the University’s communications reflect its diverse campus community. Although TU does offer some diversity-themed courses, the University can strengthen existing courses with diversity themes and topics while also developing new courses that address complex multicultural issues. TU must also implement and incentivize courses and programming around such topics as diversity awareness, intersectionality, and cross-cultural competence, among others. These programs and efforts will serve as a springboard for enhancing multicultural communications that will attract and engage students, faculty and staff seeking a diverse and inclusive campus. Objective A. Develop a Diversity and Inclusion Training Program Suggested Action Steps: Survey best practices at peer and aspirant institutions for diversity and inclusion training. Establish mandatory diversity training as a professional development program for TU staff as well as faculty and search committees. Develop diversity training initiatives and programming for students. Measures: Program established with identifiable training alumni Improved organizational climate around diversity and inclusion following training Search committees, staff, senior administrators, and faculty see themselves as competent in diversity and inclusion issues Faculty and staff understand new and existing initiatives and programming around diversity and inclusion Objective B. Incentivize New Programming and Initiatives that Enhance Diversity and Inclusion Suggested Action Steps: Develop competitive grant funding for new diversity and inclusion activities overseen awarded by a broad-based university committee Develop biennial award for diversity leadership at all levels and in all areas of the University selected by a committee of TU stakeholders Facilitate dialogue between senior administration, faculty, and staff about best practices for strengthening diversity accountability systems throughout the University – Include diversity in annual activity report by faculty as well as part of the tenure and promotion process for faculty Measures: Regularly awarded grants to a wide range of projects, programs, and initiatives with at least $4000 awarded per year to a minimum of four (4) projects Named award for diversity leadership with identifiable list of at least two awardees per year Formal report and regular minutes regarding diversity inclusion initiatives and programs by President’s Executive Staff, University Council, Deans’ Council, and Associate Deans’ Council Objective C. Enhancing the Diversity of TU’s Curriculum and Program Offerings Suggested Action Steps: Review current courses with a service learning or diversity component. Integrate service learning or diversity component into existing course offerings. Develop new course offerings with diversity or service learning as a core component. Measures: Develop survey instrument to assess current courses and identify diversity-themed courses New or existing courses meeting diversity-themed standard according to instrument Objective D. Enhance TU’s Reputation as a Diverse and Welcoming Community Suggested Action Steps: Increase the number of diversity-driven content on TU’s website using stories and information that specifically focuses on inclusion and engagement. Develop easy access across diversity links that highlight and encourage the community to attend the variety of multicultural groups and activities. Expand diversity outreach and awareness to underrepresented communities. Openly display diversity awards TU has received. Dedicate a diversity material specific to prospective students and parents. Develop communication plan around diversity initiatives to incorporate messaging to alumni and donors. Measures: Increase representation of diverse students across all digital and print publications Integration of diversity marketing into University Relations communication plan Identification of diversity and inclusion issues as contributing component in admissions decisions Development and identification of diverse alumni and donors VIII. Conclusion The Diversity Action Plan serves as a broad and dynamic roadmap for TU over the coming years. The three goals identified in the plan—building a more diverse community, creating a supportive environment for all, and positioning the university for positive change—encompass the full spectrum of the TU community and require the time, energy, and dedication of all TU stakeholders. This plan provides a pathway to advance TU’s strategic vision of educating people of diverse backgrounds and cultures thus preparing all students for success in an increasingly diverse and interconnected society. Print Version 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT