Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION Community Resources Multicultural Student Programs Diversity Action Plan Respect for Religious Diversity 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial In 2021, Tulsa will observe the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre – the deadliest and most destructive massacre in U.S. history. TU joins with other organizations in the Tulsa community to ensure that neither the tragedy nor the lessons learned are forgotten. Numerous events, programs and projects are planned in the coming months to commemorate the centennial. This page will be updated to reflect new articles, information and upcoming events. TU Community Events Members of the TU community will host many events in the months leading up to the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race Massacre. Follow these links to learn more about upcoming events as well as links for the recordings of many of the previously recorded events. Date When/Where Event Name/Description Contact Dept 2/27/2020 5:30 p.m. TU campus Preserving History: Black Wall Street and the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Panel with Nehemiah Frank, Venita Cooper, Dr. Ricco Wright and Phil Armstrong Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC 10/13/2020 7 p.m. via Zoom Homecoming 2020: The Legacy of Black Wall Street presentation and panel Leslie Blanchet Alumni Engagement 10/13/2020 Student Union Remembering Black Wall Street visual display Nevin Subramanian SA 10/21/2020 12 p.m. via zoom Greenwood’s History and its Impact on the Current Climate (viewing password: B#Z#R0%S) Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, SA 10/28/2020 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series Kickoff with Phil Armstrong, Rev. Robert Turner and Dr. Alicia Odewale Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 12/16/2020 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Don Peebles Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 1/01/21 - 12/31/21 Ongoing exhibit McFarlin Library Special Collections: Tulsa Race Massacre Online Exhibit Marc Carlson McFarlin Library 1/27/2021 5:30pm via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Albert White Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 2/1/21 - 12/31/21 Ongoing exhibit on Greenwood Faces of Greenwood Kelli McLoud-Schingen DEI office, external partners 2/18/21 Pre-recorded B.C. Franklin Lecture: Hannibal Johnson Lyn Entzeroth TU Law School 2/24/21 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Ralph Sampson Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 3/17/21 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Warren Thompson Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 4/14/21 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Shannon Wright Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 4/15/21 5-6 p.m. via Zoom History of Harm: Race, Medicine and Covid-19 in historical perspective Maria Maurer Women and Gender Studies 4/28/21 5:30 p.m. via Zoom Black Wall Street: The Past, Present and Future of Black Excellence Series with Jessica Lewis Amanda Chastang DEI office, MRC, external partners 5/4/21 11 a.m. via Zoom Tulsa in Flames: Staged Reading of the Black Wall Street Play Kelli McLoud-Schingen or Amanda Chastang DEI office 5/4/21 1 p.m. via Zoom or Teams Tulsa Race Massacre Special Collections Seminar Adrian Alexander Library 5/4/21 6 p.m. via Zoom Opening the Doors of History: The Black Wall Street Story with Clifton Taulbert Kelli McLoud-Schingen or Amanda Chastang DEI office 5/4/21 8 p.m. on TU campus Remembering Black Wall Street Through the Arts Kelli McLoud-Schingen or Amanda Chastang DEI office 5/21/21 All day Tulsa Law Review: Race Massacre Symposium Warigia Bowman TU Law School 5/26/21 Ongoing Champ: Greenwood Art Project Jeff Van Hanken 5/26/21- 5/29/21 1:00 p.m. (virtual/in-person) JHF 2021 Reconciliation in America National Symposium Kristen Oertel TITAN 5/30/21 Virtual option available Black Inventors Hall of Fame -- "Just(ice) Math" Helen Douglas 5/30/21 Virtual option available Centennial Commemoration and Celebration of Black Entrepreneurs and Black Inventors Amanda Chastang DEI office, external partners 6/18/21 - 6/20/21 OKEQ Porches Presentation Machele Miller Dill Musical Theatre 8/26/21 - 10/21/21 Alexandre Hogue Gallery Exhibition curated by Christina Beatty and featuring the work of Tai Tindall and Dawn Tree Kirsten Olds Alexandre Hogue Gallery 11/4/21 - 1/13/21 Alexandre Hogue Gallery Exhibition by Sedrick Huckaby (Mayo featured artist) Kirsten Olds Alexandre Hogue Gallery Tulsa Community Events 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission The 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission will leverage the rich history surrounding the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre by facilitating actions, activities, and events that commemorate and educate all citizens. “The projects of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission will educate Oklahomans and Americans about the Race Massacre and its impact on the state and Nation; remember its victims and survivors; and create an environment conducive to fostering sustainable entrepreneurship and heritage tourism within the Greenwood District specifically, and North Tulsa generally.” Explore these commemorative events Other Community Events Tulsa ’21” Black Wall Street An original stage production about the history of Tulsa’s Black Wall Street and the 1921 Massacre. The Attack on Greenwood Exhibit A traveling exhibit on the history of the Greenwood Area and the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre for the purpose of educating the community. Diversity and Engagement at TU The education of people of diverse backgrounds and cultures lies at the heart of The University of Tulsa’s core values and mission. The university furthers its mission of educational excellence by creating an environment of equity and inclusion that values diverse life experiences, ideas, and perspectives. TU is committed to aligning its practices to cultivate a community that reflects these fundamental values and goals. Learn more about TU’s commitment to diversity and inclusion here. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT