Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Life / The University of Tulsa’s Hazing Policy The University of Tulsa’s Hazing Policy STUDENT LIFE Student Handbook and Policies CaneCares Statement on Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities Student Code of Conduct Social Media Policy Disabilities Accommodation Policy & Notice of Absences Alcohol and Drug Policy Hazing Policy Weapons Policy Policy for Computer Use Digital Millennium Copyright Act Policy Intellectual Property Rights Conduct of Academic Research Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX Student Complaint Policy Respect for Religious Diversity Contact Student Life The University of Tulsa’s Student Code of Conduct defines hazing as: “Doing, requiring or encouraging any act, whether or not the act is voluntarily agreed upon, in conjunction with initiation or continued membership or participation in any group, that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or physical harm or humiliation. Such acts may include, but are not limited to, use of alcohol, creation of excessive fatigue, and paddling, punching or kicking in any form.” Participation in hazing is prohibited and consent to being hazed is not an acceptable defense. Last revised December 16, 2021 Actions and activities which are explicitly prohibited by The University of Tulsa include but are not limited to the following: Alcohol & food: Forcing, requiring or endorsing new members/individuals to drink alcohol or any other substance and/or providing such alcohol or other substance; the unauthorized or illegal use of alcohol in any form or quantity during a new member activity; dropping anything edible or non-edible into the mouth; requiring the consumption of undesirable substances (e.g. spoiled food, unusual food combinations, and noxious fluids); Creation of excessive fatigue: Conducting new member related activities between the hours of midnight and 8 a.m. or awaking individuals during these hours; permitting less than eight continuous hours of sleep for new members each night; conducting activities which do not allow adequate time for study during pre-initiation or initiation periods; Deception/power dynamics: Expecting new member participation in an activity that not all initiated members will participate in that is outside of the nationally approved Ritual and/or new-member education program; activity designed to convince the individual that they will not be initiated; Humiliation: Carrying items that are designed to punish or embarrass the individual; publicly wearing apparel which is conspicuous and not “normally” in good taste; calling new members/individuals demeaning and/or derogatory names; requiring new members to engage in public stunts of behavior that is morally degrading and/or humiliating; running personal errands (servitude); Line-ups: Requiring individuals to line up in an environment that could reasonably be considered intimidating or causes personal indignity by reducing someone’s status and agency – including but not limited to berating, group interrogations, or requiring individuals to “march” in formation; Mental harm: Playing extremely loud music, music repeated over extended periods of time, or any other audible harassment; yelling and screaming at individuals; not permitting new members to talk for extended periods of time; requiring or encouraging new members to talk for extended periods of time; causing excessive fatigue through psychological shocks; Nudity: Requiring forced nudity or partial nudity of new members/individuals; Physical harm: Branding, paddle swats, pushing, shoving, tackling, or any other physical abuse; members purposely disorganizing the chapter house or a room for the new members to clean; requiring new members to disorganize the chapter house and/or other personal or private property; causing excessive fatigue through physical shocks; forced calisthenics, such as sit-ups, push-ups and runs; throwing anything (whipped cream, garbage, water, paint, etc.) at an individual; Policy/Law: Forcing, requiring or endorsing individuals to violate any University or national/international fraternity and sorority policy or any local, state, or federal law; Transportation & quests: Engaging in unauthorized activity which involves compelling an individual or group to remain at a certain place or transporting anyone anywhere (road trips, kidnaps, etc.); conducting unauthorized quests, string hunts, treasure hunts, scavenger hunts, paddle hunts; Vandalism/Theft: Theft of property under any circumstances; assigning or endorsing “pranks” such as stealing or harassing other organizations; defacement or vandalism of trees, grounds, buildings, or other university, city, or private property; If you suspect you are a victim of hazing or suspect others may be victims of hazing, please immediately contact any of the following resources or submit a CaneCares report: Campus Security 918-631-5555 Dean of Students Office 918-631-2742 Counseling Center 918-631-2200 Campus Housing 918-631-2516 Emergency (on campus) 918-631-5555 Tulsa Police (non emergency) 918-596-9222 Emergency (off campus) 911 Oklahoma Hazing Law [Okla. Stat. tit. 21, § 1190] A. No student organization or any person associated with any organization sanctioned or authorized by the governing board of any public or private school or institution of higher education in this state shall engage or participate in hazing. B. Any hazing activity described in subsection F of this section upon which the initiation or admission into or affiliation with an organization sanctioned or authorized by a public or private school or by any institution of higher education in this state is directly or indirectly conditioned shall be presumed to be a forced activity, even if the student willingly participates in such activity. C. A copy of the policy or the rules and regulations of the public or private school or institution of higher education which prohibits hazing shall be given to each student enrolled in the school or institution and shall be deemed to be part of the bylaws of all organizations operating at the public school or the institution of higher education. D. Any organization sanctioned or authorized by the governing board of a public or private school or of an institution of higher education in this state which violates subsection A of this section, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punishable by a fine of not more than One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) and the forfeit for a period of not less than one (1) year all of the rights and privileges of being an organization organized or operating at the public or private school or at the institution of higher education. E. Any individual convicted of violating the provisions of subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punishable by imprisonment for not to exceed ninety (90) days in the county jail, or by the imposition of a fine not to exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or by both such imprisonment and fine. F. For purposes of this section: “Hazing” means an activity which recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental health or physical health or safety of a student for the purpose of initiation or admission into or affiliation with any organization operating subject to the sanction of the public or private school or of any institution of higher education in this state; “Endanger the physical health” shall include but not be limited to any brutality of a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements, forced consumption of any food, alcoholic beverage as defined in Section 506 of Title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes, low-point beer as defined in Section 163.2 of Title 37 of the Oklahoma Statutes, drug, controlled dangerous substance, or other substance, or any other forced physical activity which could adversely affect the physical health or safety of the individual; and “Endanger the mental health” shall include any activity, except those activities authorized by law, which would subject the individual to extreme mental stress, such as prolonged sleep deprivation, forced prolonged exclusion from social contact, forced conduct which could result in extreme embarrassment, or any other forced activity which could adversely affect the mental health or dignity of the individual. Hazing in any form is prohibited and constitutes a violation of Title 21 Oklahoma Statutes section 1190. Responsibility for enforcement of this regulation rests with the officers and members of the respective student organizations. Violation of this policy will result in disciplinary action for the responsible individuals, organizations, and organizational officers as well as exposure to the monetary and incarceration penalties as provided under the law. Penalties – Individuals Individuals will be sanctioned per the Student Code of Conduct and the Dean of Students. Penalties – Student Organizations All sanctions imposed on student organizations by the University will be administered through the Office of the Dean of Students. The following penalties may be assessed singly or to follow consecutively (e.g. a group may have their registration rescinded and be allowed to return to the University on probation at the completion of the time of rescinded registration.) Sanctions assessed will list the length of the probation and/or rescission (unless indefinite), the specific privileges to be forfeited, and any and all other conditions established as a part of the sanction. 1. A Letter of University Reprimand – will not include forfeiture of privileges. 2. Social Probation – may stipulate the forfeiture of specifically listed social and/or other privileges for a period of not less than three (3) months, or more than three (3) calendar years, and may also require specific performance during probation. 3. Total Probation – this is the most severe sanction that the University may impose upon a student organization, short of rescinding University recognition. Total Probation shall be for a stated period of time not to exceed one (1) calendar year and prohibits the organization from: sponsoring, co-sponsoring, or participating in any and all social, intramural, athletic, or other similar activities on or off campus; the solicitation of any pledges/associates/new members; and the initiation of any pledges/associates/new members. Total probation may also include the forfeiture of other specifically listed privileges. It may also require specific performance by the organization during the period of probation. 4. Rescission of University Registration – this represents the most serious penalty that may be imposed on a registered student organization. It involves the revoking of the University’s recognition of the organization for a stated or an indeterminate period of time. If the organization also holds a charter from a national organization or association, the University may also request that the national organization or association revoke the organization’s charter. Organizations that maintain a residence or meeting facility on University property may not occupy or utilize that facility unless and until the organization returns as a registered student organization in good standing. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT