Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Success Resources / Study and Learning Apps for College Students Study and Learning Apps for College Students STUDENT SUCCESS RESOURCES Stress Relief Time Management Notetaking Goal Setting Test Preparation Academic Strategies Study Methods Study & Learning Apps Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students International Students Veterans Non-Traditional Students Commuter Students Current Students For Notetaking Evernote Considered “the king” of note taking apps, with a feature set that combines bookmarking, composing, clipping and more. Audionote – (free with in app purchases) A note taking, voice recording software that allows you to playback you audio while highlighting the text simultaneously. Considered “the king” of note taking apps, with a feature set that combines bookmarking, composing, clipping and more. Smartpens – (Assistive Tech Device) – $99+ Allows you to take handwritten notes while recording the lecture you are listening to. Notebooks then synce to Livescribe softward or Evernote depending on the smartpen model. Livescribe sky pens sync wirelessly and come with an Evernote subscription for you. MyScript Smart Note Handwritten note taking tool that allows user to write and draw into their notes. For Studying Anki Flash cards and spaced repetition. http://ankisrs.net AccelaStudy (Apple) The app uses “spaced repetition” to help with vocabulary retention for college freshman/ graduate entrance exams, professional advancement or for language proficiency. In addition to search and organize features, there are several modes, including Study, Flashcard, and Quiz. This app is particularly useful to ESL/ TOEFL students for whom English is not their first language. GRE Vocabulary Builder (Android) Similar to AccelaStudy. Coursera.org This is an online education site that has partnerships with many dozens of top colleges and universities in the United States and has curriculum course study materials and MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses). You can use Coursera’s Web site or mobile apps to study a selection of courses and supplement whatever you are learning at your college. Brainscape (Apple) Create flashcards to help you study. Flashcards+ Create flashcards to help you study. Quizlet Create/use pre-made flashcards to help you study. Mathway This app will guide you step-by-step while you search for algebra, geometry, or any other math solution. Enter your task into the application, and check if your solution is the same with one offered. StudyBlue Combine flash cards, notes, and text messages with reminders for study time. http://studyblue.com Duolingo This app helps with studying and learning foreign languages. http://www.literacy.uconn.edu/compre.htm (Good website with strategies for reading comprehension and text analysis). http://www.learningassistance.com/2006/january/mnemonics.html (This is examples of mnemonic connection techniques—all kinds—and even has some practice ones where students can try to come up with their own for remembering things). http://www.studyblue.com/hello/fc.html?cid=f10_medA_tFC&amp;utm_medium=adwords&amp;utm_source=f1 0_medA_tFC&amp;gclid=CPfY8Z-itaYCFQTrKgodhTmzGw (This site is super cool—it helps you create mobile flashcards that are digital and will show up on your cell phone or other mobile devices). http://www.howtostudy.org/resources_subject.php?id=1 (Resources for how to study accounting). http://www.accountingcoach.com/accounting-quizzes.html (Practice quizzes and exams on different accounting subject matter). You can do a search for any subject and “practice exams/quizzes” and come up with free sites for your students to practice on and improve their skills. http://acct202.tripod.com/ (This is an actual class website but has many past exams for practice and chapter outlines that would be helpful for students in accounting). http://www.studyspanish.com/ (This one is help for learning Spanish with pronunciation guides and tutorials). For Time Management/Organization Pomodoro Technique (prices vary ) https://francescocirillo.com/pages/pomodoro-technique Break studying into chunks and time yourself to help you perform better. iStudiez – $10 Combine schedules, homework, and grades to provide an interactive visual representation of your work load in each of your courses Things – $10 Task manager app that allows you to create various to-do lists for all aspects of your life, with color coding. Easilydo – (free) Syncs your email with the Easilydo app to create to-do-lists. Share travel information and receive bill reminders. StayFocused (for Google Chrome) Limit time on time wasting websites. https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/stayfocusd/laankejkbhbdhmipfmgcngdelahlfoji?hl=en 30/30 Combine timers and task lists. http://3030.binaryhammer.com Conqu – (free) To-do list app with delegation among other Conqu users, filters, and overdue item features providing important reminders and task organization by level of importance. LeechBlock – (Firefox, Google Chrome) Limit time on time-wasting websites. Google Tasks and Calendar Task lists and calendar/planner. Wunderlist – (free) Create and share lists, view public lists, and view/publish lists. Freedom – (Mac, Windows, Android) – $10 Limit time on time-wasting websites. http://macfreedom.com MeeTimer (Firefox) Limit time wasters and log/track where you spend time online. Awesome Note – $3.99 Combine your notes with to-do lists, keeping all of your information in one place. Allows note sharing and photo, location, and URL tags. iStudiez Lite (Apple) The free Lite version allows you to manage one semester of up to five courses, 15 classes/exams per course, 15 assignments, five instructors and two holiday periods, and you can set alarms. Helps you map out your semester to organize your courses, assignments and exam schedules. Timetable (Android) Similar to iStudiez Lite. Todoist Use it track your course assignments, set reminders, bookmarking Web pages you visit and more. Any.do Use this app for making to-do lists. Clear This is a to-do list app that can sync all your lists from different devices into one location. Assignment Calculator http://www.lib.umn.edu/help/calculator/ (This is AWESOME—it’s an assignment calculator for paper writing. You plug in what assignments you have coming up, and it will calculate and plan a schedule of what you need to do so you can easily follow the schedule and get it done on time. It also shares resources for the particular subject matter along the way). Mindtools http://www.mindtools.com/pages/main/newMN_HTE.htm (Very awesome site. It has a ton of stuff for helping with time management, organization, and prioritization with many tools students can use like planners, schedules, and quizzes about their skills). Also see: http://www.mindtools.com/index.html. RescueTime – (Computer) – Free Time management software. Program runs in the background of your computer and tracks the time spent on various applications and websites, breaking down how much time is spent doing what throughout your day. This software allows you to block websites for a desired amount of time, and alerts users when they’ve spent over a set amount of time on one task. https://www.rescuetime.com/ For Money/Budgeting Mint.com This is a money and budgeting app. Oklahoma Money Matters http://www.oklahomamoneymatters.org/ (This has tools for budgeting, loan management, credit, savings, etc.). For Citations in Writing EasyBib Just enter a book’s title and get the right citation! All you have to do is copy this citation into your bibliography. Citation LibGuides The Citations Resources Page at https://libraries.utulsa.edu/citation_guides/home provides basic guidelines, MS Word formatting templates, and links to vetted resources. Motivation/Self-Help SelfControl This app blocks certain websites that can distract you from studying, and it does it for a set amount of time (such as social media). https://selfcontrolapp.com/ http://www.dr-bob.org/vpc/virtulets.html (This is one of the best clearinghouses for information on various self-help topics from mental health to relationships to study skills.) http://www.phy.ilstu.edu/pte/310content/case_studies/resources/Difficult_Tutoring_Situations.pdf (This one has great advice on dealing with difficult tutoring sessions and why students may be struggling. It gives scenarios and then good responses should these issues come up with your students). Books and Study Materials RealCalc Scientific Calculator Downloadable calculator. Chegg This is a textbook rental app. Just search for a book, and if they have it, put in an order. And when you no longer need a textbook, you can easily rent it again via Chegg. Test-Taking http://www.testtakingcentral.com/ (This one has a wealth of information on test-taking tips) 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT