Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Success Resources / Incoming Freshmen Incoming Freshmen STUDENT SUCCESS RESOURCES Stress Relief Time Management Notetaking Goal Setting Test Preparation Academic Strategies Study Methods Study & Learning Apps Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students International Students Veterans Non-Traditional Students Commuter Students Current Students Get Ahead Early Go to the TU website (www.utulsa.edu) and look around. Look at Info for Prospective Students, Current Students, and the New Student Checklist. Many professors post their syllabi online through Harvey. If so, you could get books or begin doing readings over the summer. Get organized early! Buy your backpack and supplies now. Label and organize your notebooks for each class—color code them for easy locating if your room gets messy. You will want a notebook for each class to keep your course syllabus and important papers/notes in one place. Schedule to Enroll early to get the classes you need. Organization You will be completely on your own for time management in college, and we recommend everyone use a planner. Buy a planner now at the Bookstore that is divided into days so you can make “to do” lists and write your class schedule, important assignments, test dates, and other appointments in one location. You will also have access to a Google calendar with your TU email that can be used for this. This is especially helpful if you have a smart phone: you will always have access to your calendar on your phone. Practice makes perfect: start using a planner this summer to record summer work hours, social time, etc. Visit Campus Come to campus and walk around if you can. Learn the buildings and find a campus map online: utulsa.edu/map. Get a copy of your class schedule and walk the routes between classes now to figure out how much time you need to get from one class to another. Determine when you will have breaks for lunch and dinner and try some dining locations on campus. Locate services of interest to you now, such as Multicultural Student Programs in Hardesty Hall and the Tutoring Center. Find McFarlin Library and get acquainted with the different areas: books, computer labs, coffee shops, study areas, media services. Get familiar with the library website and visit TU Copy. Find your Academic College (Arts and Sciences, Business, Engineering and Natural Sciences, or Health Sciences) and meet your Academic Advisor. Find out requirements for majors and minors and learn resources. Wellness and Safety Visit the Alexander Health Center. This is where you will go for free help with minor injuries and illnesses, immunizations, and counseling services. Tour the Fitness Center and make plans for an exercise routine. Check with Dining about menus and nutrition and make plans to eat healthy. Sign up for emergency text alerts about weather or other emergencies. Get Involved If you know an upperclassman who has attended TU, take them to coffee and ask questions. How hard are classes? How are attendance policies enforced? What should I do if I get sick? What should I expect the first few weeks? What should I know/do as a freshman? Also, join the Admissions Facebook page to start connecting with friends now. Having a social group will be helpful when you need study groups or to take a break. Look for student clubs and organizations that you can join with Student Activities. Visit International Student Services if you are an international student. Talk to Veterans Affairs if you are a veteran. As a new student, you should connect with New Student Programs and Services and sign up to participate in Orientation. Parents can get helpful information here as well. Get the athletic events schedule and visit the various arenas. Transitions Let your family and friends plan a party for you, or plan one yourself. Having people gather to “send you off” on this new adventure, even if you plan to live at home, gives them a chance to show their support and encouragement as you begin the transition to this new phase of life! Make a plan with your family in advance about how often you will contact them, visit home, and what updates they will want from you. As a college student, you are beginning life as an adult and will be totally responsible for yourself. No one else will be checking to make sure you take care of things, so you will need to take charge of your new autonomy. You will be making decisions and need to show your family they can trust you. You no longer need to bring the family to campus events or meetings, but they will likely want to know how things are going. Keep in touch but start showing them you are consulting with them but not relying on them to do it for you. Success Coaches offers weekly Success Coaching to all students free of charge. These sessions focus on academic success and mentoring to help you have the best collegiate experience. College is a really fun time in your life. Get excited and welcome to TU! Know Procedures Visit Info for Current Students to find out how to set up email, buy your parking permit, search for campus jobs, buy textbooks, add funds to your Gold Card, and campus events. Read the Academic Bulletin and Student Handbook. Make sure you understand academic honesty rules at the collegiate level. Contact Financial Aid to see if you qualify for any aid or scholarships or have GPA requirements. Visit the Bursar to check tuition costs and arrange for tuition insurance. Visit Housing and Dining to learn about the housing lottery, meal plan options, and rules in housing units. Ask for a tour of where you will live and take pictures and measurements to plan for decorating and to make it home. Visit the Housing Website to find out what to bring. Proactive Academic Tips You should plan to study at least 3 hours for every hour spent in class. Mark study times in your planner for each class and hold yourself accountable for putting in the time. It is easier not to overbook yourself if you have study time planned in advance. Make plans now to not miss class. Attendance is important to earning good grades and some classes have attendance policies. Learn how GPA works in the Student Access FAQ’s and determine what grades you want to make. Set goals ahead of time for each class or visit CSAS to make goals in Academic Success Coaching. Tutoring is free at TU. Make plans to use it early and often. If you have a disability, register for accommodations with Student Access now. If you plan to work, do not work more than 20 hours per week so you have adequate time to devote to your academics. Other Tips Your TU email is the main mode of communication on campus. Start checking it every day. Learn to manage your finances and set up a local checking account now. Create a budget and stick to it (start with http://www.oklahomamoneymatters.org/). Work now on developing a healthy sleep routine—go to bed and get up at the same time every day for the best results. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT