Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Diversity / Outstanding Senior empowers others to excel Outstanding Senior empowers others to excel October 11, 2021 For Jess Choteau Outstanding Senior and first-generation college student Candelaria Alayon, studying mechanical engineering and joining the profession is just part of her larger mission. Hailing from Las Vegas, Nevada, Alayon regards engineering as much more than just mechanics, design or a great career. For her, it is also a unique opportunity to embrace and celebrate Hispanic women and women of color who strive for personal and professional success in a male-dominated field. Support and empowerment Candelaria Alayon “As a Hispanic woman, I want nothing more than for other Hispanic women to be included in the dialogue between both male and female engineers to assess the challenges of the field and to further research,” Alayon said. With increasing numbers of women graduating with STEM degrees every year, the question becomes, for Alayon, how Hispanic women and women of color can be supported while they are students and once they have entered the workforce. According to Alayon, “making sure that women feel empowered within these fields is essential.” For Alayon, however, the matter goes beyond mere acceptance: “It’s imperative that we, as a profession and the community at large, encourage and advocate for these engineers.” One vital way to accomplish this goal, Alayon advises, is to engage with organizations such as the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), the country’s largest association dedicated to fostering Hispanic leadership in STEM. Currently the secretary of The University of Tulsa’s student chapter of the SHPE, Alayon believes that such organizations are crucial for providing students with “a place of belonging” where they can find others with the same passions. “Not only do organizations such as the SHPE provide campus connections, they also enable connections with others across the nation,” noted Alayon. In particular, through SHPE conferences “it [is] amazing to see so many other Hispanic females who are studying engineering empower each other and make connections with people of all different backgrounds.” An inspiring leader With an endless amount of drive, it is little surprise that Alayon’s interests and activities extend beyond her work with the SHPE. In addition, she is president this year of Phi Eta Sigma and Tau Beta Pi, volunteers with Peer Mentors, Future Alumni Council and Reading Partners, and is active in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. On top of all that, Alayon also serves as a University Ambassador. Candelaria with her father, mother and sister While Alayon admits that getting involved in extracurricular organizations can be tiring, for her, the benefits far outweigh the occasional exhaustion. “I try my best to be passionate about each and every group I join,” remarked Alayon, “and I do my best to ensure each one gives the same opportunities to others that they have given to me.” Alayon’s energy and the results it has produced have certainly garnered the attention of faculty. “Candelaria has a unique ability to unify others,” said James Sorem, dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences. In addition, he noted that Alayon “is an individual who is destined to succeed and who creates a path for others also to aspire.” Striking a similar note, Department of Mechanical Engineering Chairperson John Henshaw commented that Alayon “gives new meaning to the term Golden Hurricane. She is an extremely gifted mechanical engineering student, an exceptionally hard worker, a natural-born leader and just an all-around fun person.” Given the high esteem with which Alayon is held by Sorem, Henshaw and many others across TU, it is little surprise that she recently received two prestigious awards: the Tau Beta Pi Undergraduate Scholarship and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers John and Elsa Gracik Scholarship. “I am proud to have received these awards, and I want to find ways to make other students aware of these scholarship opportunities so they can reap the benefits of their hard work too,” Alayon commented. Also a regular person… Having fun at a Tulsa Drillers game With such an impressive résumé, it may be hard to believe that Alayon is also someone who is trying to relax and enjoy the rest of her time in college. Like most students, she goes on late-night Braum’s runs and makes coffee with friends for those nights where sleep is not going to happen. She also attends sports games, builds igloos during once-in-a-lifetime snowstorms, loves to read and travel, and spends free time with friends watching movies and going for walks. After graduation next May, Alayon intends to work full time as an engineer while completing an MBA program focused on business communication. But, as busy as her life and as ambitious as her plans always are, Alayon never loses sight of what’s really most important: “At the end of the day, being a student at TU is, for me, about making memories with lifelong friends.” The Jess Chouteau Outstanding Senior Award recognizes TU seniors who demonstrate exceptional achievement in both academic and service endeavors. Learn more about Candelaria Alayon and the rest of the inspiring 2021 recipients. Diversity, Engineering and Natural Sciences, Featured, Mechanical Engineering, News, Stories, Student Stories American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Candelaria Alayon, Future Alumni Council, Jess Choteau, Outstanding Senior, Peer Mentors, Phi Eta Sigma, Reading Partners, Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, stem, Tau Beta Pi, University Ambassador, women in STEM 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT