Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Federal Verification Process FINANCIAL AID Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Scholarships Loans Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Student Financial Services Federal Verification Process Each year, the federal government requires schools participating in the distribution of financial aid to verify the accuracy of data submitted on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). To complete verification, applicants are asked to submit federal tax documents and/or complete electronic forms. Who is selected? Any student who completes a FAFSA may be chosen for verification. What Happens Next? If your FAFSA application is selected for verification by the U.S. Department of Education, you will receive an introductory email to the address you provided on the FAFSA. The University of Tulsa partners with ProVerifier+ to assist students in completing their verification process. Included in this email will be a custom school link with introductory communication requesting you access ProVerifier+ to complete your verification process. You will need to do the following: Confirm your identity (authentication). Create a secure password. Access your documents and begin the verification process (this includes the completion of online forms). Upon receipt of all required documents, ProVerifier+ will begin the verification process. Students will be notified if there are any questions or if any additional documentation is required via email, text, or phone. Once verification has been completed, the student and our school will be notified. Timelines and Deadlines The verification process can be completed in as little as two weeks. However, the process may take longer if incomplete documents are submitted or if additional information is required. It is imperative that you respond and complete any requested documents as soon as possible. Your financial aid funds cannot be applied to your account until your verification is complete. Pell Grant Recipients: A Federal Pell Grant applicant that is selected for verification must have a valid ISIR (FAFSA) with an official EFC (Estimated Family Contribution) on file prior to the last day of enrollment for the 2021-2022 award year. The verification process must be completed for the 2021-2022 award year by September 17, 2022 or 120 days after the last day of the student’s enrollment, whichever is earlier. Campus -Based and Direct Loan Applicants: Campus Based and Direct Loan applicants must complete verification prior to the last day of enrollment. If you have any questions concerning verification and the required documents, please contact Student Financial Services. Failing to complete verification by the deadlines will result in the loss of eligibility for federal aid funds. In the event that a student completely withdraws, verification documents must have been received prior to withdrawal in order to be considered for federal financial aid. About ProVerifier+ ProEducation Solutions is a privately held company that offers superior financial aid business solutions to colleges and universities nationwide. Since 2001, ProEd has been a leading provider of innovative technology solutions. If you have any questions about the verification process, please contact ProVerifier+, Monday through Friday from 8:00 am – 5:00 pm Central at 918.710.3234. IRS Data Retrieval Tool Who Can Use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool? Applicants must have a valid Social Security Number and FSA ID to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. The applicant will need to authenticate himself or herself to the IRS in order to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. Students and parents must use the tool separately for their respective income tax returns. Who Can’t Use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool? If an independent applicant is married and files separate federal income tax returns or a dependent applicant’s parents are married and file separate federal income tax returns (e.g., married filing separately or head of household), the applicant will not be able to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. Also, if there has been a change in the marital status of the applicant or parent (if the applicant is a dependent student) after the end of the tax year, the applicant will not be able to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. The IRS Data Retrieval Tool will transfer information only from an original income tax return and not an amended income tax return. Thus if the applicant, spouse or parent, as applicable, has filed an amended income tax return, the applicant will not be able to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. Applicants who have filed a foreign income tax return instead of or in addition to a US income tax return will be unable to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. For example, taxpayers who file both a US income tax return and a Puerto Rican tax return will be unable to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. Also, the IRS Data Retrieval Tool is available only to taxpayers who have a valid Social Security number. Taxpayers who file income tax returns using a Tax ID Number (TIN) will not be able to use the tool. The home address listed on the FAFSA must match the home address listed on the federal income tax return. Tax Return(s) Recently Filed/Tax Data Not Available to Transfer Students or parents who filed their tax returns electronically within the last three weeks, or through the mail within the last eleven weeks, might need to either enter their tax return information manually and return at a later date to transfer their tax return information into the FAFSA, as their tax return information might not be available for transfer from the IRS. View the IRS Data Retrieval Tool Availability Chart. Submitting an Income Tax Return If a student and/or parent did not complete the IRS Data Retrieval Tool, it will be necessary to submit a signed copy of the 2018 income tax return for the 2020-2021 FAFSA, or the 2019 income tax return for the 2021-2022 FAFSA. Request Tax Transcript HOW TO REQUEST A TAX TRANSCRIPT FROM THE IRS Tax filers can request a transcript of a recent tax return, free of charge, from the IRS in one of four ways. Online Request Available at www.irs.gov • Under Tools, click “Get Transcript of Your Tax Records”. • Click “Get Transcript ONLINE”. • Create an account if one does not already exist. • Enter the tax filer’s personal information that is requested. • Click “Continue”. • You will then be required to answer the security questions. • Select Higher Education/Student Aid as the reason you are requesting the transcript. • Select 2018 for the 2020-2021 FAFSA or 2019 for the 2021-2022 FAFSA under “Return Transcript”. • If successfully validated, the Tax Transcript will open in a PDF that you can print or save. • Submit the tax return transcript to The University of Tulsa Office of Student Financial Services; make sure to include the student’s name and TU ID on the transcript. Get Transcript by Mail Go to www.irs.gov, under the Tools heading, click “Get a tax transcript.” Click “Get Transcript by MAIL.” ***Make sure to request the “IRS Tax Return Transcript” and NOT the “IRS Tax Account Transcript*** Paper Request Form Go to www.irs.gov and print the form based on your tax filing status: IRS Form 4506-T or IRS Form 4506T-EZ Telephone Request Available from the IRS by calling 1-800-908-9946 • Tax filers must follow prompts to enter their social security number and the numbers in their street address. Generally this will be numbers of the street address that was listed on the latest tax return filed. • Select “Option 2” to request an IRS Tax Return Transcript (not “Tax Account Transcript”) and then enter the year of the return begin requested. • If successfully validated, tax filers can expect to receive a paper IRS Tax Return Transcript at the address provided in their telephone request within 5 to 10 days from the time of the request. • IRS Tax Return Transcripts requested by telephone cannot be sent directly to a third party by the IRS. • Submit the tax return transcript to The University of Tulsa Office of Student Financial Services; make sure to include the student’s name and TU ID on the transcript. Mail to: The University of Tulsa Office of Student Financial Services 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 How to fix address matching problems when ordering online When entering the information into the IRS address matching system note the following: The address entered must match the address already on file with the IRS exactly. The address on file is typically the address on your most recent tax return. Spelling out the word “street” rather than using the abbreviation “st.” can be enough to cause an error. Addresses on the IRS system are auto-corrected through a post office program and may not match what you put on your tax return. We suggest the following if you run into problems: Have your taxes in front of you and enter the address carefully as it is on your return. If you entered your address as it appears on your return and it doesn’t work, try using the standardized version of your address. To get a standardized version of your address: Go to www.usps.com Click Look Up a Zip Code Enter Street Address, City, State Click Find If you still have problems, the IRS Help Desk can be reached toll-free at 1-800-876-1715, Monday – Friday 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m. (Eastern Time). Request Non-Tax Filer Confirmation Independent students, along with their spouses if applicable, and parents of dependent students are required to submit documentation from the IRS that indicates the requested year’s IRS income tax return was not filed with the IRS or other relevant tax authority. A confirmation of non-filing can be obtained from the IRS using Form 4506-T and checking box 7. If the individual is unable to obtain Verification of Nonfiling (VNF), the following will be required: A signed statement of Nonfiling for the 2019-2020 FAFSA (PDF) or 2020-2021 FAFSA (PDF); A copy of IRS Form W–2, or an equivalent document, for each source of 2018 employment income received by the individual for the 2020-2021 FAFSA or for each source of 2019 employment income received by the individual for the 2021-2022 FAFSA. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT