Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Honors Program / Honors Curriculum Honors Curriculum https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTt9N2079P0&t=60s SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMISSION Admission Honors Curriculum Honor Societies Honors Event Calendar Contact the Honors Program Honors Core Your Honors studies at TU begin with a set of integrated and interdisciplinary Honors Seminars. In these small interactive seminars, you join a centuries-old conversation about how we make sense of our human condition and what ideas, principles and practices best equip us to live well. Honors Scholars analyze literary and artistic creations, mine historical accounts, weigh philosophical arguments and political debates, and examine scientific discoveries and technological innovations — all with an eye toward deepening our understanding of our world and ourselves. Ultimately, the Honors Program aspires to cultivate the habits of mind and attention that distinguish a well-rounded, well-educated human being. Because of this, each Honors Seminar can be used to fulfill general education requirements that all University of Tulsa students must fulfill. In your first Honors seminar you investigate the standards of antiquity. You encounter the invention of history, philosophy, tragedy and democracy, among many other things. We read and assess these past thinkers, artists and scientists in their own right. At the same time we use the ancients to help us better understand ourselves as moderns. What is it that we have inherited from the ancient Greeks (for better and for worse) and what is it that we have left behind (for better and for worse)? Here is a representative list of what students read and discuss in HON 1003, Ancient Greek Culture. The second Honors seminar investigates how we move from the ancient to the modern world. You can choose to study these foundational traditions through the Middle Ages, the Renaissance and/or the Enlightenment. Here is a list of representative readings for HON 1013 From the Middle Ages to the Renaissance and for HON 2003 Enlightenment and Its Critics. The scientific enterprise captures our attention in the third Honors seminar. We examine why science takes off in the West when and how it did, and we consider too what it means to do science. Here is a sampling of readings student engage in HON 2013 History and Philosophy of Science. In the fourth Honors seminar we assess modernity and its legacies in one of two ways: either through thinkers who identify the sources and experience of modern discontent, or through contemporary issues. Here are reading lists from several recent seminars in HON 3003 Modernity and Its Discontents and HON 3013 Contemporary Issues. These integrated and interdisciplinary Honors seminars lay the foundation for higher education at TU. The sequence moves chronologically so that we can study how thinkers use, abuse, enlist, revise and/or reject thinkers who came before them. They sustain a conversation that fosters intellectual community and helps to make visible how our own individual thinking takes shape over time and in response to a wide array of concerns. Honors Portfolio and Your Honors Plan Your Honors Portfolio and Honors Plan invite you to enrich your undergraduate studies by tailoring readings, courses and other intellectual investigations to speak to your most pressing questions. Your Honors Portfolio The Honors Portfolio challenges you to reflect upon the nature of your intellectual inquiries and to discern what is your own best thinking. At the end of each semester, Scholars take stock of their studies by answering three questions. What have I been reading and thinking about this semester, across all my courses and in my independent readings, art and/or research? By answering this question, you build an annotated bibliography indexing the ideas you’ve studied during the semester. Of all the work I have produced, what has been my most meaningful accomplishment of the semester? By selecting a writing sample or some other artifact that represents your most meaningful work of the semester, you highlight both your talents and your passions. What are the discoveries I have made over the semester, and how have this semester’s studies shaped my thinking and development? In response to this final question, you craft a succinct narrative where you distill the questions that have been animating your curiosity and shaping your inquiries. This sort of reflection is valuable in and of itself, as it advances our self-awareness and engages us in the sort of metacognition that distinguishes deep and adaptive learners. In addition, Honors professors read these portfolio entries so they may help Scholars identify potential research questions, burgeoning interests and emerging themes. The Honors Plan After you complete the Honors Core Curriculum, we will ask you if you want to continue your Honors studies. Some of our Honors Scholars will decide not to continue in Honors because they want to immerse themselves in their studies in their major and the various research projects or professional internships they may be involved in. But if you have a burning question or two that may fall by the wayside if you focused solely on your burgeoning area of expertise, then you will likely want to design and pursue an Honors Plan. Your Honors Plan will be unique to you, what you are curious about and where your intellectual and professional aspirations direct you. Indeed, figuring out what sort of endeavors will best serve you is part of the challenge. To get started, you will review your Honors Portfolio with two professors, one from your home major and one in a different discipline. Together, you identify your strengths and weaknesses and articulate your interests and goals, in order to design a course of action that broadens and deepens your undergraduate studies. That course of action may take shape as a traditional Honors Thesis, or it may make more sense to structure your investigation as a set of independent readings that you discuss with the relevant experts on campus. Yet another plan may envision pursuing opportunities like civic engagement or service learning so to apply their particular area of expertise in different contexts. However your Honors Plan takes shape, it should complement rather than duplicate your studies. Honors Scholars who wish to enrich their studies as an upperclassman with independent work must have an Honors Mentor agree to advise their Honors Plan, and file their plan with the Honors Program Office by Oct. 1 of their fifth semester at TU. They then use their Honors Portfolio to document their progress as they execute their Honors Plan. Eligibility To remain eligible for the Honors program and scholarship, students should be making good progress through the Honors curriculum. Specifically, Honors Scholars must: Maintain a 3.0 GPA in the first year and a 3.25 cumulative GPA thereafter Be enrolled in an Honors seminar or have an approved Honors Plan on file with the Honors Program office Post their threefold reflection to their Honors Portfolio each semester 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT