Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Welcome Parents & Families / Parent FAQs Parent FAQs PARENTS & FAMILIES Welcome Messages Parent and Family Association Get Involved Parent FAQs Resources for Parents STUDENT SUCCESS BLOG Parent & Families Frequently Asked Questions a What academic support services does your campus offer? Student Access provides services to all students to enhance opportunities for academic success by promoting effective interaction between students and faculty. In addition, they provide accommodations for students with disabilities and offers tutorial assistance to all students, as well as academic skills workshops in test preparation, study strategies and note-taking. To learn more, visit the Student Access’s website at Student Access. a What is done to help provide a safe campus environment? The University seeks to provide a safe and secure environment for students, faculty, staff, and visitors. The Campus Security office strives to achieve this mission through a community friendly approach that enhances safety through the visibility of security personnel, preventive patrols, 24-hour accessibility, positive conflict resolution, crime prevention, and awareness programs. Campus Security employs a full-time force of security officers. Campus Security works closely with the Tulsa Police Department and other law enforcement agencies as necessary. Officers conduct foot and vehicular patrols of the campus and residence hall areas 24 hours a day. Potential criminal actions and other emergencies on campus can be reported by any student, faculty member, or employee of the university by dialing campus extension x5555 anytime of the day. From off campus, Campus Security can be contacted at 918-631-5555. TU utilizes a Blue Light Telephone System to increase safety and prevent crime by enabling people to reach Campus Security quickly from multiple locations around campus. The Blue Light phones are located conveniently and strategically throughout campus. To learn more about campus security, visit www.utulsa.edu/security. a What is there to do on campus? TU offers more than 160 different student organizations covering a broad range of interests, including honor societies, Greek organizations, pre-professional organizations, multicultural organizations, service organizations, honor societies, specialty interest groups, and more. TU also boasts a large intramural sports program as well as other recreational sporting activities throughout the school year. In addition to all of this, Student Association hosts several concerts, guest speakers, and annual events such as Springfest each year. Throughout the year, TU offers a wide variety of stage productions, art exhibits, lectures, and performances by the TU Symphony Orchestra, Jazz Band, and the TU Choral. TU is also home to NCAA-Division I sports programs. TU is home to eighteen collegiate sports programs. Men: Basketball, Cross Country, Football, Golf, Indoor Track & Field, Outdoor Track & Field, Soccer, Tennis Women: Basketball, Cross Country, Golf, Indoor Track & Field, Outdoor Track & Field, Rowing, Soccer, Softball, Tennis, Volleyball a What is the city of Tulsa like? The city of Tulsa is a unique blend of an urban and a suburban setting. It is richly diverse in culture and entertainment, and is a leader in cultural attractions. Tulsa boasts several museums, including the Gilcrease Museum, which the University manages, well known for its collection of western art. The Tulsa Performing Arts Center is home to Tulsa Ballet, Tulsa Opera, and the Tulsa Symphony Orchestra. If you enjoy the outdoors, then take advantage of the beautiful lakes, many golf courses, and amusement parks as recreational options. Antiques shops and numerous shopping malls are conveniently located for the serious shoppers. Visit the Explore Tulsa page to learn more about what our city has to offer. a Do you have merit scholarships? Yes, The University of Tulsa recognizes students on the basis of academic merit, leadership, and the performing arts. Visit the financial aid website to view available scholarships. a How many students attend TU? There were 4,671 students attended TU in the Fall of 2015; 3,478 undergraduates, 1,193 graduate and law students. a What is the average class size? The average class size is 23 at TU. a What is the ratio of students to faculty? The student to faculty ratio is 11:1. a Do graduate assistants teach freshman courses? Full- time faculty members teach the majority of classes. However, the basic writing courses are taught mostly by graduate students. Only in rare instances will graduate assistants teach courses other than the basic writing courses. a What is the physical/mailing address for the residence halls? The University of Tulsa Lottie Jane Hall, Rm # 2808 East 6th Street Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 The University of Tulsa John Mabee Hall, Rm # 2807 East 5th Place Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 The University of Tulsa Fisher Hall, Rm # 2831 East 8th Street Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 The University of Tulsa Fisher West Suites, Rm # 2821 East 8th Street Tulsa, OK 74104 The University of Tulsa Hardesty Hall, Rm # 3105 East 5th Place Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 a Who do I contact with billing questions? The Office of the Bursar provides answers to a wide range of questions including costs, payment policies, and taxes. One example is the medical insurance provided to all new students, from which students may choose to opt out. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT