Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / CaneCareers / Job Placement Guarantee / Job Placement Guarantee FAQs Job Placement Guarantee FAQs CANECAREERS Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Fairs Career Labs & Events Placement Outcomes & Statistics Recruiting Policies & Guidelines Meet Our Staff Contact Us UPCOMING EVENTS Job Placement Guarantee FAQs a What is the time commitment each year to be a part of the JPG? For the 4-year track, you can expect to spend between 10-15 hours working through the general requirements and attending workshops/webinars each year. Many of these requirements may be fulfilled in a classroom setting. For example, the informational interview is required in the First Year Experience course, so that would not be additional time spent for the JPG. Additionally: Beginning your 2nd year, you have from the last day of your first year to the first day of your 3rd year to complete the sophomore experience requirement, which is the equivalent of 40 hours of experiential learning. Certain summer jobs, the 1-hour public service internship, study abroad, global scholars, TURC, job shadowing and many other experiences may count toward this requirement. You will also be asked to complete 10 hours of community service which can be combined with a class or student organization requirement as well. During your 3rd year, you will be asked to complete a 160-hour minimum internship or verifiable work experience, 10 hours of community service, and some type of leadership training. Leadership training can be done in many ways: through a class here on campus, training in your student organization, required job training for your summer job, or even a series of virtual webinars, among other opportunities. The time commitment for leadership training can be as little as 2 hours to as much as 40 hours or even more depending on your level of interest. In your 4th year, you will still have 10 hours of community service and your regular commitments, but most of your time will be spent on the job search and interview process. Again, time spent here can be as little as 15 hours if you are doing the bare minimum, but the expectation will be that you are actively seeking jobs or positions in graduate or professional schools. a Does the tuition benefit apply to room and board as well? No, the tuition benefit only applies to the courses. Students are responsible for any fees or living expenses incurred during the semester. a What counts as a job? A position that is degree required or degree preferred from an employer’s perspective, or student desired in a field or related field of study, counts as a job. Positions can be full-time or part-time. a What if I am offered a job somewhere but decide I do not want to accept it? If you are offered a job and choose not to accept it, you will not be able to receive the free semester tuition benefit. Conditional offers also count as job offers. So, if you are offered a job based on a certain graduation date or passing a certain test – including drug tests by the organization presenting the offers or a background check – but you fail to meet the conditions, you will not be eligible for the free semester tuition benefit. Make sure that you are keeping up with your coursework and meeting with your student success coach to ensure you are set for your projected graduation. a Does the tuition benefit apply to law school? No, the tuition benefit only applies to graduate programs offered in the Graduate School at The University of Tulsa. The College of Law is not part of the Graduate School offerings. Click on the link below to see the graduate programs we offer here at TU. Graduate Programs a I plan on applying to a graduate program at TU. What should I do? You should apply for your graduate program! If going to graduate school at The University of Tulsa is your goal, the JPG can help you achieve it. TU has an impressive merit scholarship program available to most graduate students. Continuing your education here is an excellent and affordable choice. If, for some reason, you are not accepted into your choice graduate program (several TU programs are very selective and only take a small number of students each year), you could still be eligible to receive the tuition benefit in one of our other programs (or in the non-degree seeking area) as long as you meet the requirements of the JPG. Also, please remember that we ask students to apply to multiple graduate schools, so if you aren’t accepted at TU, you may be accepted at another university and you can still accomplish your goal. Make sure you are also studying for any necessary entrance requirements for the program you wish to apply to; THAT is a requirement for the JPG. Click on the link below to see the graduate programs we offer here at TU. Graduate Programs a What if I want to take time off after I graduate? Would I still be able to take advantage of the program when I am ready to start searching for a job? Unfortunately, we cannot accommodate students who wish to take time off upon graduation. Many of our senior year requirements include job searching, applications, and interviewing. This does not mean that we do not want you to take advantage of all the professional development you will receive while participating in the program; you just will not be eligible for the semester tuition benefit. a Can I take a gap year during my education? In many instances, yes you can take a gap year, but it needs to be coordinated with your career coach and the manager of the JPG program WELL in advance of the gap year. a Can I change my major? Yes, the JPG program is available to all majors, so you would still be enrolled if you chose to change majors as long as the change is made prior to the first day of your junior year. If you decide to change majors after that date, you can still participate in the program, but you would not be eligible for the tuition benefit. a Is this program available to veterans and nontraditional students? Will some of my service or job experience count towards some of the requirements? Yes, the JPG is available to all incoming students with 60 or more credit hours remaining to complete at TU. Working with your career coach, you may be able to use your service and other work-related experience to satisfy some of these requirements. a Can students wanting to get into medical school enroll? If so, what would that look like? Yes, we ask that students applying to medical school do so their junior year, which aligns with the traditional medical school applications process. Work closely with your career coach to make sure that you are meeting all the shadowing and entrance requirements. a Can current students participate in the program? The Job Placement Guarantee (JPG) is available to all new students entering fall 2022 or later. Current students are unable to enroll in the JPG but will have access to all the same resources and opportunities that enrollees have; they just would not be eligible for the tuition benefit. a What is Harvey? Harvey is the online learning management system that TU uses to deliver all course content (Hurricane Academic Resource Virtually Everywhere). Both in-person and virtual courses have a Harvey component. The JPG will use Harvey to track all assignments and completion of requirements. It will also contain video and text resources to help students complete the JPG. Special announcements will be sent through Harvey to your specific JPG cohort. The actual JPG course will be listed in your “organizations” section, and all the content will stay with you for all 4 years you are in the program. a When can I enroll in JPG? Students can enroll in the JPG any time before or during their first semester on campus. If you would like to enroll, please visit with your student success coach when you are enrolling in classes or contact us at 918-631-2345 or canecareers@utulsa.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT