Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Security / Policies Policies CAMPUS SECURITY Safety Measures Severe Storms & Tornadoes SafeZone App Services Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Anonymous Reporting Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) REPORT SEXUAL ASSAULT NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE These policies have been established to create a safe and productive academic and work environment. All university employees and students are expected to be familiar with these policies and to follow them. University policies are subject to change at any time and faculty, staff and students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with current policies. Individuals with questions about a particular policy should contact the department noted in that policy. Alcohol and Drug Policy University’s policy on alcoholic beverages and use of drugs or illegal substances is in compliance with state and federal laws. The University provides for the sale of alcoholic beverages in certain locations and under certain circumstances, including through organizational activities (with prior approval). In keeping with University policy respecting the rights of students as adult citizens, students are legally responsible and liable for the consequences of their actions. Status as a University student does not make students exempt from otherwise applicable laws. Visit the TU Student Handbook for the full Alcohol Policy. Identification Cards All students and university employees must obtain an official identification card from Parking and Card Services. The TU ID Card must be carried at all times when on campus and presented to University officials upon request. Anyone who fails or refuses to show their card may be asked to leave the campus. While this requirement may seem restrictive, it is designed to serve the needs of all members of the campus community. TU ID Cards TU ID Cards are required for admission to the University libraries, computer labs, fitness center and residence halls, for access to many campus activities, and for check cashing identification at the business office. TU ID Cards can also be used as a cash card on campus for purchase of food and other items. Lost, Stolen and Damaged Cards Please report lost or stolen cards to Parking and Card Services located in Fisher Hall. A $15 fee is charged to replace your TU ID card. Card Status TU ID Cards are not transferable and are void upon interruption or termination of enrollment/employment with the university. Caring for Your TU ID Card Your card uses three types of technology. The card has a barcode on the back for use in the library, a magnetic swipe on the back for your meal plan and Hurricane Gold accounts, and a proximity antenna for campus door access. It is important to follow some simple steps to insure the operation of your ID card as replacement costs $15. Do not punch a hole in the card to carry it on a chain. If you want a hole punched in the card, please bring it to Parking and Card Services and let the staff punch the hole in the correct location to avoid damage to the circuitry of the card. Do not use your ID card as an ice scraper; it will damage the circuitry for the proximity array and also possibly break the card. Do not wash and/or dry your ID card; it will make the card brittle and easy to break. Do not run a magnet across the magnetic strip. Do not expose the card to extreme temperatures. For additional information regarding your ID card, please visit Parking/Card Services, Fisher Hall or call 918-631-3360. Missing Student In compliance with the Missing Student Notification Policy and Procedures 20 USC 1092 C; (Section 488 of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008), it is the policy of the Department of Housing and Residence Life to actively investigate any report of a missing student who is enrolled at TU as either a full- or part-time student. Each resident will be notified of the missing students’ policy and procedures in the event they are reported missing. Each resident upon checking into their assigned room is requested via the Resident Student Check-In Card (RSCC) to identify the name and contact number of the individual(s) to be contacted in case of an emergency, including identifying a separate contact person (if desired) in the event the resident is reported missing for a period of no more than 24 hours, if the student has been determined missing by the Office of Campus Security or local law enforcement. For any resident under the age of 18, and not an emancipated individual, the institution is required to notify a custodial parent or guardian no later than 24 hours after the time the resident is determined to be missing by the Office of Campus Security and university staff. Emergency contact information will be kept confidential and accessible only to authorized campus officials and will not be disclosed, except to law enforcement to further the missing person investigation. If a member of the TU community has reason to believe that any student is missing, all efforts will be made immediately (no waiting period) to locate the student to determine his or her state of health and wellbeing. These efforts include, but are not limited to: checking the resident’s room, class schedule, friends, ID card access, contacting the Office of Campus Security, locating the resident’s vehicle and calling cell phone numbers. If upon investigation by the Office of Campus Security and Housing and Residence Life staff the resident is determined missing for at least 24 hours, the Dean of Students will contact the resident’s designated emergency contact or custodial parent or legal guardian. This action is justified if the student is under the age of 18 or has failed to designate an emergency contact. Any missing student report must be referred immediately to TU’s Office of Campus Security. The Office of Campus Security will continue to investigate in collaboration with staff from Student Affairs and Housing and Residence Life. Campus Security will also coordinate its efforts with outside law enforcement agencies in full compliance with legal obligations and good faith practice. Regardless of whether the student has identified a contact person, is above the age of 18, or is an emancipated minor, Campus Security will notify local law enforcement within 24 hours of the determination that the student is missing, unless local law enforcement was the entity that made the determination that the student is missing. When a University student is thought to be missing from the campus, campus officials (Dean of Students, Campus Security) should be promptly notified. All potential missing student reports will be referred to local police for investigation. A person also may be suspected of being missing if an inquiry about that individual comes to the t to a university official or campus security authority from a parent, legal guardian, law enforcement agency or staff member who has been unable to contact the student or verify the student’s presence on campus by email or phone call. Reporting a Missing Student To report a suspected missing student, immediately contact Campus Security, 918-631-5555, located in Mabee Gym 3115 E. 8th St., Tulsa OK. Campus Security will contact the offices of Student Affairs, Housing and Residence Life Staff and Tulsa Police to coordinate the search effort. All students and university employees must obtain an official identification card from Parking and Card Services. The TU ID Card must be carried at all times when on campus and presented to university officials upon request. Anyone who fails or refuses to show their card may be asked to leave the campus. While this requirement may seem restrictive, it is designed to serve the needs of all members of the campus community. TU ID Cards are required for admission to the University libraries, computer labs, fitness center and residence halls, for access to many campus activities, and for check cashing identification at the business office. TU ID Cards can also be used as a cash card on campus for purchase of food and other items, and some off-campus locations. Timely Warning Policy The University of Tulsa is responsible for issuing timely warnings in compliance with the Clery Act (formerly known as the Federal Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act of 1990). The decision to issue a timely warning shall be decided on a case-by-case basis, in compliance with the act, and by considering all available facts. The timing of the notification shall, in the first instance, be based upon whether the crime is considered a serious or continuing threat to students or employees and the possible risk of compromising law enforcement efforts. In the event that a situation arises that requires issuance of a warning, these warnings are provided to keep the campus community informed about safety and security matters on an ongoing basis and/or in an effort to prevent similar crimes from occurring. Timely Warnings Timely warnings are addressed for the following Clery Act crime classifications: arson, burglary, aggravated assault, murder, non-negligent manslaughter, manslaughter by negligence, motor vehicle theft, robbery, and sex offenses. Timely warnings also may be issued for other crimes as deemed necessary. Upon receipt of all relevant information, such warnings will, as circumstances warrant, be issued in a manner to best protect the campus community. TU has communicated with Tulsa Police to request their cooperation in informing the institution about crimes and situations reported to them that may warrant timely warnings or an emergency response. Emergency Notification The Department of Campus Security will immediately notify the campus community after receiving confirmation of a significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on campus. Without delay, and taking into account the safety of the community, TU will determine the content of the notification and initiate the Emergency Notification System; unless issuing a notification will, in the professional judgment of the Campus Security Director, Captains and on-duty Supervisors, compromise efforts to assist a victim, contain the emergency, respond to or otherwise mitigate the emergency. The Department of Campus Security will gather and analyze reported facts, when appropriate, to verify that a legitimate emergency or dangerous situation exists. Emergencies include, but are not limited to, severe weather, active shooters, and fires. For more information on the means of notification, visit https://utulsa.edu/campus-security/campus-safety-measures/ Procedure The University of Tulsa is responsible for issuing timely warnings in compliance with the Clery Act (formerly known as the Federal Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act of 1990). The decision to issue a timely warning shall be decided on a case-by-case basis, in compliance with the act, and by considering all available facts. The timing of the notification shall, in the first instance, be based upon whether the crime is considered a serious or continuing threat to students or employees and the possible risk of compromising law enforcement efforts. In the event a situation arises that requires issuance of a warning, these warnings are provided to keep the campus community informed about safety and security matters on an ongoing basis and/or in an effort to prevent similar crimes from occurring. When a determination has been made that a timely warning or emergency notification is appropriate, Campus Security will take action to ensure timely notification of the campus community including immediately contacting the Director of Marketing and Communication to arrange for media distribution. Options for notifying students, faculty and staff include TU’s emergency notification system. Such warning(s) may include, but are not limited to, the following: type of crime, date, time and location of the crime as well as available suspect information. Emergency notifications are given to the entire campus community due to the campus size, the frequency of community members’ movement within the campus, and the goal of keeping the entire community aware of significant emergencies. In some situations, TU may alert the greater Tulsa community through radio, local news media, and other platforms. Any police supervisor may authorize an Emergency Notification. The Department of Environmental Health and Safety is responsible for developing, coordinating and assessing building emergency plans designed to be an all-hazards disaster response and emergency management plan. The building emergency plans provide emergency contacts and procedures specific to each building and will be updated as changes occur by the Associate Vice President for Risk Management and distributed in appropriate locations throughout the building by the Building Contact person. A copy of the building emergency plan can be requested from the Associate Vice President of Risk Management. Weapons Policy Read the full Firearms, Air Rifles, Weapons, Explosives and Fireworks Policy. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT