Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Provost / Faculty Senate Faculty Senate PROVOST Accreditation Program Accreditation Assessment Initiatives TU Commitment Student Achievement Data Student Success Faculty Senate Provost Staff Contact Office of the Provost In accordance with the preamble to the Constitution of The Faculty Senate of The University of Tulsa, the Faculty Senate’s role is “…to provide a forum in which the elected representatives of the faculty may, without restraint, freely express their thoughts on issues of specific and general concern to the members of the academic community.” Membership of the Faculty Senate consists of the faculty senators duly elected by their respective colleges, as well as ex-officio representation by the President of the University, the Provost, and the Deans of the colleges and the Graduate School. Officers 2021-2022 Akhilesh Bajaj, Senate President Ram S. Mohan, Senate Vice President View Past Officers Quick Links Faculty Senate Team Site (Login Required) Constitution Bylaws Blue Book Committees Senate Steering Committee Standing Charge: The Steering Committee will prepare a program of issues to be considered by the Faculty Senate based on input from faculty members and the individual caucuses. It will recommend appropriate faculty committees to accomplish the related objectives. It will also perform other tasks as provided by these Bylaws or directed by a vote of the Faculty Senate. The Steering Committee shall certify that the elections of Faculty Senators from the individual colleges are held within the rules specified by these Bylaws and otherwise adopted by the Faculty Senate. Academic Affairs Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: The Academic Affairs Committee shall consist of six regular faculty members, who shall serve for staggered three-year terms, and the Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost. The committee shall concern itself with policies and problems related to the academic mission of the University. Academic Computing Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: The Academic Computing Committee shall concern itself with all phases of academic computing. Faculty Affairs Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: The Faculty Affairs Committee shall concern itself with faculty relations within the University structure and all documents concerned with such issues as academic freedom, responsibility and tenure, institutional policies and procedures, sabbaticals and leaves, and the Faculty Senate Constitution and Bylaws. It shall also recommend to the President of the University the three Faculty members to receive teaching awards at Commencement. Financial Review Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: The Financial Review Committee will meet with the administration and the trustees, including the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Finance Committee and the Chair of the Audit Subcommittee of the Board of Trustees, to review the financial status of the University. Meeting discussions are to include but not be limited to a confidential discussion of the annual audit and the auditor’s findings regarding the internal control structure of the University, and the budget policies for the coming year approved by the Finance Committee. Library Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: Library Committee shall concern itself with all phases of the University Libraries. Student Affairs Committee Senate Standing Committee Standing Charge: The Student Affairs Committee shall concern itself with all aspects of student life that relate directly to the educational process. Benefits Committee University Committee Standing Charge: The Benefits Committee is authorized to consider any policy pertaining to faculty benefits, including insurance, retirement plans, tuition waiver, and other personnel matters. It shall have at least one faculty member from each college, appointed to two-year staggered terms. Equal Access and Opportunity Committee University Committee Standing Charge: The Equal Access and Opportunity Committee is authorized to consider all matters pertaining to affirmative action, equal access and opportunity, and the status of women and minorities. It shall periodically, at least every three years, review the status of equal access and opportunity at the University. It shall have at least one faculty member from each college, appointed to staggered two-year terms. Research Council University Committee Standing Charge: Research Council shall be a forum for promoting research, examining and discussing research policy, and maximizing the internal and external benefits of research activity. The Council’s standing charge is to examine ways to promote research activity, discuss research policy and administration, and make recommendations to maximize the internal and external benefits of research activity. This charge emphasizes the role of the Council in policy formulation, discussion, and implementation. The Council may be asked by the administration for funding recommendations that the council may refer to subcommittees of the Council and other faculty members. Faculty Appeals Board University Committee “The University Faculty Appeals Board shall hear: (1) cases involving nonrenewal of term contracts and denial of promotion and tenure …; (2) cases involving dismissal due to financial exigency …; (3) cases involving dismissal because of educational considerations …; and (4) cases involving dismissal due to legally permissible medical reasons … . In addition, the University Faculty Appeals Board may hear appeals of decisions involving dismissal for cause after those cases have been heard by the Committee on Faculty Rights and Responsibilities of the faculty member’s college … .” (Blue Book Section VI.A.2.c) Faculty Grievances Committee University Committee The University Committee on Faculty Grievances has two areas of jurisdiction: a petition for redress of a grievance by a faculty member alleging professional, personal or administrative misconduct governed by the Statement (see Statement VI.A.3.c); and a petition by a faculty member who believes that a minor sanction has been incorrectly imposed under Statement VIII.B. (“Minor Sanctions”) by the administrative head or dean who has supervisory responsibility concerning the faculty member (see Statement VIII.B.). Faculty Athletics Board University Committee Parking and Traffic Committee University Committee 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT