Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sustainability / Sustainability Projects Sustainability Projects SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Projects Recycling Initiatives Ways To Conserve Transportation & Parking Classes, Programs & Opportunities Investment Priorities Water Initiatives Sprinklers A large portion of the water consumed at The University of Tulsa is for the lawns. To prevent water loss, a high technology sprinkler system becomes a necessity. During the last five years, TU has implemented new technologies in three phases to reduce water consumption. In phase one (2011), a Rainbird Sprinkler system was installed. This system is completely interconnected, and breaks the sprinklers down into zones that are monitored via computer 24 hours a day for any burst pipes or broken sprinklers. In phase two (2012), an advanced weather system that can detect rain, moisture of soil, and wind speed was installed, enabling the sprinkler system to calculate how much water was necessary, then shut off water supply when appropriate. Phase three of the sprinkler system included flow sensors and valve controls. The sensors monitor the university’s 12 water feeders and are capable of shutting down a zone until repairs are made. The valve controls measure through-put in the pipes and water output, calculating the amount of time a sprinkler should run. Fountains The fountains around the university also are connected to a weather station that monitors wind speed. If wind speed is too high, the fountains will run at half of their maximum height. The water used in the fountains also comes from a reclamation tank, so water is continually reused. Permeable Pavers TU is a member of Partners for A Clean Environment (PACE), a voluntary, nonregulatory program coordinated by the City of Tulsa’s Quality Assurance and Stormwater Quality groups. Use of permeable stone pavers near Lorton Performance Center allows the university to be a member of PACE’s group of Low Impact Developers. The permeable pavers contribute to a healthier watershed by allowing storm water to seep into the ground rather than overwhelming nearby streams during flood events. The pavers also keep pollutants from entering the waterways, while lessening rates of erosion. Hydration Stations The university recognizes the positive impact of refillable water bottles. By distributing free water bottles to the student body and installing over 65 “Hydration Stations” around campus, TU has contributed to the reduction of plastic water bottles. The Hydration Stations allow those on campus a quick and easy water bottle refill while simultaneously tallying plastic water bottles saved. As of the last count in February 2014, TU had saved 1.82 million plastic water bottles. Go Trayless Conservation of our resources is a fundamental aspect of sustainability. Going trayless means that when we go through food lines in the cafeterias, or elsewhere, we do so without a tray. Being trayless conserves food as well as the water needed to wash the trays. Food Initiatives Food Bank Dining Services has many programs promoting sustainability that are related to food production. TU participates in the Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma’s Food Recovery Program that donates leftover food from both the Pat Case Dining Center and Allen Chapman Student Union. A representative from the Food Bank comes to TU twice a week — Tuesday and Thursdays — to pick up food, which is then distributed to other centers that feed hungry people in Tulsa. TU has donated 4,400 pounds of food through the Food Recovery Program since April 2015. This program is making great progress in reducing the amount of food thrown away while helping the community. Lean Path The Lean Path Program in Pat Case Dining Center requires employees to weigh any waste they produce while preparing foods on a special scale that is attached to a computer which monitors the waste from each individual employee. This initiative, begun in May 2013, creates an environment of competition and accountability so that employees have an incentive to reduce waste as much as possible. Paper Initiatives TU implemented paperless services to save paper. Services include: Direct deposit requirement for most payroll and reimbursement transactions Duplex Printing in computer labs Use of the TU Portal for important paperwork Mandatory online completion of Human Resources’ Monthly Leave form TU Employee Phone Directory only available online Double-sided copying default initiative in Collins College of Business and the Student Association Collins College of Business Academic Advising Office completed conversion from paper files to electronic files Physical Plant currently is working on distributing work orders via mobile devices, eliminating paper printed work orders. Under the new print quote policy, each student is limited to 1,000 black and white pages or page-sides per semester. After the 1,000 pages have been reached, students will be required to purchase more pages. This is in effort to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions resulting from printing. Energy Initiatives Solar Panels TU continues to lead sustainability efforts among educational institutions in Oklahoma by the addition of 936 polycrystalline photovoltaic panels that were installed on the roof of the Case Tennis Center in 2016. The 300-kilowatt system is owned by PSO and leased by TU. To maximize energy production throughout the day, approximately half of the panels face east and the other half face west. The panels should produce up to 400,000 kilowatt-hours of energy a year, the same amount of solar energy harvested by 75 residential structures. The electricity generated will supply power to the Case Center. Energy Management The university’s goal is to implement gridSMART technology into the largest academic buildings, eventually followed by campus apartments. This technology will allow students to use electricity more efficiently. Energy Metering Project The goal here is to improve building features to save money and electricity. Our initial specific target is installation of occupancy sensors as part of all renovations and new construction to save lighting costs. Sensors have been added to Mabee gym and are in College of Law renovation plans. Keplinger Hall’s renovated classrooms include sensor lighting. The third floor of Helmerich Hall has increased the arch value of the building envelope, increased insulation to a 4 factor of 30. Construction/renovation completed in Tyrrell Hall included replacing lighting and other structural changes to improve the electrical mechanical elements and to improve the efficiency of the roof tile. The single pane leaded glass windows were rebuilt maintaining the original look. Purchasing Initiatives All computers must be purchased via the internal campus computer store. Each purchase also includes a mandated Dell managed recycling program to ensure the equipment is disposed of properly at the end of its life. WFF oversees all of our purchasing of cleaning supplies for the campus. As policy, all main cleaning products purchased are GreenSeal certified. Our paper supplier, WordCom, supplies only recycled paper unless the department requests specifically non-recycled for special needs projects and or what the department requests is not available as a recycled product. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT