Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Projects Recycling Initiatives Ways To Conserve Transportation & Parking Classes, Programs & Opportunities Investment Priorities There are many ways to be a part of the sustainability culture at The University of Tulsa. If you live on campus, you can save energy by preparing your residence for any extended time you are away by: Closing blinds and tilt the slats upwards. Unplugging all chargers, fans, coffee pots, candle warmers and other items that are plugged into an outlet that can be unplugged without damage. Emptying out, clean, unplug and leave personal refrigerator doors open. Turning off TVs, computers and printers. Turning off all lights. Please contact energy specialists David Ellsworth at dje2853@utulsa.edu if you have any questions and Facilities Management if you have any service/maintenance requests. Thanks for supporting sustainability on campus! Learn more about TU’s energy savings strategy facilitated by Cenergistic. The Committee for Sustainability promotes a culture of sustainability on the TU campus. The committee facilitates research, learning opportunities, policies and practices that address environmental, economic and social responsibility. We serve as a connection for all members of the campus community – including faculty, staff and students – to advance policies and projects and participate in processes that lead to a more sustainable future. Cenergistic Partnership University of Tulsa President Gerard Clancy and the TU Board of Trustees have announced a partnership with the Dallas-based energy conservation firm Cenergistic to implement a new energy sustainability program that will increase technology, scaling capacity and organizational continuity among the university’s physical plant systems. Cenergistic services will help TU redirect money from utility costs to improve classroom technology by managing energy and sustainability initiatives in TU Physical Plant. TU has a long history of engaging in sustainability projects including reducing water consumption among common campus areas, eliminating paper usage by moving to electronic records, installing solar panels, implementing recycling initiatives and adding educational content to its website about off-campus conservation strategies. TU also is home to a sustainability committee featuring faculty, staff and students who encourage campus engagement and conduct environmentally friendly research. Teaming up with Cenergistic reinforces TU’s priorities on further reducing energy usage, capturing additional cost savings and providing more resources for the Physical Plant staff. “Our partnership with Cenergistic will help us close funding and personnel gaps, allowing us to spend our budget where it matters: providing students an exceptional education with the appropriate resources, said Jason Grunin, TU assistant vice president of business and energy. “Every dollar we save on energy helps us further the environment, experience and education of our students.” Two energy specialists will be deployed to TU, equipped with Cenergistic’s Ceres cloud-based, machine learning software, which includes real-time alerts, to augment optimization of TU’s equipment and energy usage across all university buildings and facilities. Cenergistic also provides remote and onsite engineering and measurement and verification experts. “Cenergistic is thrilled to partner with The University of Tulsa to implement our Energy Sustainability program. With our full-time onsite energy specialists equipped with the latest software working to ensure all facilities and systems are functioning at peak efficiency, coupled with an organizational behavior-based approach to energy conservation, we believe the university will see great success in both cost and energy savings,” said Dr. Randy Hoff, vice chairman of Cenergistic. “It is our mission that, with help from everyone in the organization, we will create a culture of sustainability that will progress into the future.” The Energy Sustainability Program will help TU qualify its buildings for ENERGY STAR® certification with the Environmental Protection Agency. University officials also look forward to strengthening the mindset of conservation and a culture of sustainability among staff and students prompted by the Cenergistic partnership. About Cenergistic For more than 30 years Cenergistic has helped over 1,400 K-12 districts, universities and government municipalities find more than $5B in hidden electricity, natural gas and water savings by applying sustainability as a service solution on their campuses. Superintendents, CFOs, COOs and board members can reduce energy and water spending by up to 25% annually with no capital investment, while improving the comfort and quality of classroom and building environments, helping students and employees achieve their full potential. For ten consecutive years, Cenergistic has been recognized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year. To learn more visit www.cenergistic.com. Committee for Sustainability Jason Grunin – (President), Assistant Vice President of Business and Energy Conservation Angie Williams – (GA for Sustainability) Museum Science and Management Graduate Student Jeremy Garrison – (President of Students for Sustainability) Undergraduate Student Devra McManus – Administrative Associate to the Executive Vice President Chad Settle – (Professor) Economics Bob Shipley – Associate Vice President for Operations and Physical Plant Steve Wilkins – WFF Manager Mike Neal – Director of Dining Lauren Wagner – TURN representative Nick Salis – (Associate AD) Athletics Steve Tipton – (Professor) Mechanical Engineering Department Lara Foley – Center for Global Education Student Groups and Campus Engagement Sustainability Committee: Institution has an active student organization focused on sustainability. Sustainability website and newsletter: Established April 2007 and includes administrators, students, faculty and staff from most stakeholder departments on campus including dining services, physical plant, purchasing, Janitorial Services and Administration. National Energy-Environment Law and Policy Institute (NELPI): An initiative of the George Kaiser Family Foundation, in collaboration with The University of Tulsa, serves public interest through education and research in energy, natural resources and environmental law and policy (REEL) Certificate Program) Resources, Energy and Environmental Law Society (REELS) and certificate program: Law School (3 research asst/speakers on campus) – TU premiere Energy /Environmental Law School – REELS is currently working on TU become a nationally recognized energy law school with respect to traditional and alternative energy sources and their concomitant legal issues. Furthermore, efforts are being made to make the law school more environmentally friendly. Contest anticipated for first-year law students whereby teams will identify policies, procedures, and practices which the law school can change in order to reduce its environmental impact, thus saving resources and money. REELS assisting in re-design of outdoor student lounge on the east side of Mabee Legal Information Center. The plan is to incorporate recycled materials, xeriscaping, and solar and/or wind energy technologies. Earth Matters: A group of students who goal is working to promote sustainability and environmental activism on and around campus. Earth Matters meets weekly and plans and hosts activities including speakers and Free Veggie Lunch Day. Faculty Engaged in Sustainability Research Indoor Air Program – Richard Shaughnessy, Research Associate Collins College of Business – Tim Coburn Sustainable Energy and Resources Law – Gary Allison Engineering and Natural Sciences – Jim Sorem Chemical Engineering – Tyler Johannes (Algae Biofuels, Synthetic Biology) Chemistry – Dale Teeters (Nanochemistry and Materials Chemistry as they apply to Battery Electrode and Electrolyte Materials) 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT