Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Explore Programs Filter × Filter by Program Major Minor Master Doctoral Certificate Accelerated Joint Filter by College Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Graduate School Health Sciences Law School Apply Filters Clear Filters *Still Deciding *Still Deciding Aren’t sure yet what major might be the best fit? Don’t worry. It’s ok to be undecided. It can be difficult to narrow down your choices if you show potential in several different areas or want to explore additional degree areas. As a freshman, you have a year to take some general courses, meet new friends, connect with faculty and determine what department and degree is calling your name. Take your time, keep an open mind and carefully consider your options. TU faculty and advisers are waiting to answer your questions and set you up for success. Always remember, the goal of every freshman is to become a sophomore! Find Your Admission Counselor Accounting Business Accounting Accountants are the investigators of the business world, hunting for answers to important questions and helping decision makers determine the right course of action. They’re also as good with people as they are with numbers. Jobs in accounting are plentiful and diverse. Accountants fight white-collar crime, steer businesses toward financial success and help individuals make smart decisions with their money. Students who study accounting step into one of the most critical business functions. TU’s accounting curriculum keeps pace with changes in the industry, preparing students to excel in accounting roles starting on day one. Major Minor Accelerated Master Job Opportunities Bank officer Financial analyst Auditor and tax accountant Commodities trader Public Accountant Alumni Employers BKD LLP BOK Financial Corporation Deloitte Eide Bailly LLP EY Grant Thornton LLP HoganTaylor LLP ONE Gas, Inc. ONEOK, Inc. Stinnett & Associates Advertising Arts and Sciences Advertising The advertising program is interdisciplinary with classes in advertising, public relations, digital media, graphic design and persuasion. From devising full advertising campaigns to pitching graphic design work to real-life clients, students cultivate skills and abilities that employers look for in today’s job candidates like creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and leadership. Minor Job Opportunities Public relations professional Advertising agent Creative director Videographer Journalism African American Studies Arts and Sciences African American Studies The African American studies program provides students with the opportunity to complement any major with classes in the history, literature, and culture of Africans and African Americans. Students can choose from a diverse array of classes like African film, African politics, civil liberties in the United States, inequality in American society, colonial America, history of rhythm and blues and many more. All students should emerge from the program with a better understanding of the ways in which Africans and African Americans have shaped the history and culture of the Americas. Minor Job Opportunities Law Journalism Library and museum work Education Anthropology Arts and Sciences Anthropology Anthropology is the study of humans past and present. To grasp the complexity of cultures across all of human history, the program’s curriculum is based on four traditional areas of anthropology: archaeology, cultural anthropology, biological (physical) anthropology and linguistics. Students and faculty collaborate on innovative research projects in state-of-the-art laboratories and exciting field sites worldwide. Major Minor Master Job Opportunities Cultural resource manager Museum research associate Government forensic consultant City preservation planner Archaeologist Alumni Employers Oklahoma Department of Human Services U.S. Department of the Interior James Madison Montpellier Teach for America Girl Scouts of Eastern Oklahoma Applied Mathematics Engineering and Natural Sciences Applied Mathematics Similar to the mathematics degree, a bachelor of science in applied mathematics preserves the discipline’s foundation in mathematic principles but provides a designated field of application. Students can choose an option in computer science, engineering, biomathematics, business and education. This path is best suited for those who plan to attend graduate school or work in business or industry. Mathematicians design surveys, experiments or opinion polls to collect data as well as mathematical or statistical models to analyze data. They interpret data and report conclusions from analyses to support and improve business decisions. Major Accelerated Master Job Opportunities Financial analyst Marketing statistician Mathematics educator Medical imaging analyst Computational biologist Alumni Employers FlightSafety International Texas Instruments NORDAM National Weather Service National Security Agency Art Arts and Sciences Art Students in the School of Art, Design and Art History participate in a dynamic and collaborative program focused on exploring, creating and analyzing art and its practices. A broad selection of artistic media courses is offered including painting, drawing, sculpture, photography, digital media, graphic design, printmaking and art history. Students develop the highest professional standards in concept, technique and presentation. After a solid grounding in established art-making practices, students are encouraged to explore innovative and interdisciplinary approaches. Through service learning, internships and community engagement, graduates are prepared for rewarding careers and meaningful roles as citizen-artists. Major Minor Job Opportunities Graphic designer Art director Multimedia artist Animator Art gallery associate Alumni Employers Nike Metropolitan Museum of Art Philbrook Museum of Art 108 Contemporary RBMM Brand Design Studio Scrambler Creative Havas International Robert Green and Associates Art History Arts and Sciences Art History The Art History specialization offers students the opportunity to investigate the art and architecture of diverse time periods and cultures. In specializing in Art History within the B.A. in Art degree, students learn to interpret the visual world around them as well as the artistic legacy of the past. In our increasing diverse and visual world, Art History prepares students for a range of careers with promising job forecasts and equips them with the cultural knowledge and creativity needed to imagine and adapt to jobs of the future. Major Minor Job Opportunities Curator Arts organizations manager Arts education Researcher Public relations Foreign affairs Alumni Employers Metropolitan Museum of Art Nelson Atkins Museum Oklahoma City Museum of Art U.S. Department of Education Arts, Culture, & Entertainment Management Arts and Sciences Arts, Culture, & Entertainment Management Arts, Culture, and Entertainment (ACE) Management is an interdisciplinary program in business, art, culture, entertainment, and entrepreneurship. All students complete the same core studies in ACE Management, as well as a set of courses within their selected specialization, tailored to the specialization’s focus and the student’s individual interests. Students choose a specialization in one of the following areas: Visual Arts Performing Arts Entertainment and Commercial Arts Cultural and Public Administration The career success of the program’s graduates is supported by the five separate on-the-job experiences each student gains. These experiences may be completed locally, regionally, nationally, and/or internationally, including a funded experience in London, exclusive to ACE Management. Major Job Opportunities Arts administrator Artist agent Development director/grant writer Director of cultural affairs Gallery manager Alumni Employers 108 Contemporary Living Arts of Tulsa Tulsa Ballet Tulsa Opera Athletic Training Health Sciences Athletic Training The University of Tulsa’s Master of Athletic Training degree combines academic course work and supervised practice experience that prepare students to prevent, evaluate, diagnose, provide immediate care and rehabilitate orthopedic injuries and illnesses. In addition to the course work, athletic training students gain experience under the direct supervision of certified and state-licensed athletic trainers. These experiences take place in a variety of settings including Division 1 athletics at The University of Tulsa, orthopedic clinics, local high schools and occupational and industrial settings. In the final semester, students have an opportunity to choose a national or local internship as their capstone educational experience. Accelerated Master Job Opportunities Hospitals/Medical Centers Professional Athletics Recreational Centers Sports Medicine Clinics Universities/Colleges/Schools Alumni Employers Eastern Oklahoma Orthopedic Los Angeles Dodgers Oklahoma City Thunder Union High School, Tulsa University of Iowa University of Oklahoma The University of Tulsa Biochemistry Engineering and Natural Sciences Biochemistry Biochemistry involves the science of chemical and physical elements in living things and the biological functions of cell generation and progression. Many of the original theories on biochemical action and experimentation have experienced a revolutionary modernization. Biochemistry builds on the foundation of basic science as well as biology and chemistry and is useful in the field of health sciences. From the analysis of pollutant decomposition to new drug testing, biochemists isolate, analyze and synthesize proteins, enzymes, DNA and other molecules. They also research the effects of substances such as drugs, hormones and food on biological processes. Major Job Opportunities Biomedical engineer Epidemiologist Agricultural & food scientist Microbiologist Chemist & materials scientist Alumni Employers British Petroleum Baker-Hughes Intel Corporation Thermo Electric Corporation 3M Bioinformatics Engineering and Natural Sciences Bioinformatics A minor in bioinformatics requires courses in molecular and cellular biology, statistics, biotechnology, genetic engineering, computational biology and math. Studying bioinformatics involves converting biological data into knowledge to solve problems in biological science for the benefit of society. Students prepare for careers in the biotechnology sector where life science knowledge with quantitative and computational skills is in high demand. The minor focuses on developing and applying analytical methods for discovery of knowledge in large biological datasets. Minor Professional Opportunities Scientist Engineer Software developer Microbiologist Medical researcher Biological Science Engineering and Natural Sciences Biological Science The biological science degree is intended for students interested in learning the basic principles of life science as well as how general science fundamentals apply to living organisms. Many students choose to pursue biological science for their undergraduate degree in preparation for a career in health care. The biological science degree is particularly well-suited as preparation for medical school based on its foundational science and mathematics curriculum. The pre-med option is ideal for those interested in applying to medical, dental, optometry, pharmacy, physician assistant or veterinary school. A number of our graduates also choose to pursue advanced degrees (M.S., Ph.D.) in bioinformatics, plant pathology, epidemiology, physiology, and neurobiology to name just a few. All students are encouraged to take advantage of undergraduate research opportunities that are available in a broad range of areas that include virology, microbiology, neuroscience, ecology, population and evolutionary biology, and genetics. Major Accelerated Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Optometry, Veterinary Medicine, Physician Assistant Basic or Applied Research Technician or Scientist Environmental Scientist or Wildlife Specialist Forensics/Criminalistics Biology Teacher Alumni Employers St. Francis Health System OU-TU School of Community Medicine Laureate Institute for Brain Research Tulsa City-County Health Department Los Alamos National Laboratory St. John Medical Center The Centers for Disease Control The National Institutes of Health Biomedical Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Biomedical Engineering This interdisciplinary minor is a combination of the engineering and medical curriculums blended through applications in materials science, electronics, software development and health equipment. Students complete courses in biology, computer science, chemistry, chemical engineering, electrical engineering, mathematics, mechanical engineering and engineering physics. This minor offers students the chance to obtain a credential in the discipline while pursuing their major field of study. Core biology classes includes human anatomy, genetics and cellular biology along with specialized sessions in bioinformatics, robotics and artificial intelligence. Minor Job Opportunities Medical/Dental school Pharmacy/Veterinary school Biologist Environmental forensics technician Biology teacher Business Administration Business Business Administration TU’s MBA options include an experiential, full-time program that bridges classroom learning and business application; a part-time, flexible program that fits a working professional’s schedule; and a combined Bachelor’s/MBA for exceptional undergraduates. No matter which option you choose, you’ll gain critical thinking skills in a personal environment that will set you apart from the competition and prepare you to lead an organization through future business challenges. Minor Master Job Opportunities Contracts analyst Program manager Quality analyst Compensation analyst Implementation consultant Alumni Employers Bank of America Bank of Oklahoma EY L3Harris Technologies MidFirst Bank Business Analytics Business Business Analytics The business analytics minor is primarily designed for business students who already possess some quantitative ability and who want to further develop their knowledge and interests. The program combines fundamental computational skills, database concepts, data mining and predictive analytics tools, and business modeling techniques to establish a solid foundation of knowledge that can be used to craft a dynamic career trajectory. The minor also is available to science and engineering students. Minor Master Job Opportunities Data scientist Programmer Data analyst Market Research analyst Business operations specialist Alumni Employers Grant Thornton Sana Pharmacy Business and Law Business & Law Business and Law Through a collaborative program with the College of Law, selected students in the TU Collins College of Business can complete their undergraduate degree and a JD in six years. At the end of their first year in law school and the completion of 125 applicable semester hours, students in the program will be awarded a BSBA degree with a major in Business and Law. Students can apply for admission to the Business + JD Accelerated Law Program in the fall of their third year (junior year) at TU. Accelerated Alumni Employers JP Morgan Chase & Co. Chemical Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Chemical Engineering Chemical engineering students begin their bachelor’s degree with a broad base of chemistry, physics and mathematics to acquire engineering design tools. Students are educated to think critically about engineering design problems while considering the fundamentals of engineering and science to apply their skills in many industrial areas. Specializations are available in pre-med, business, refining, materials and environmental areas. Graduates work in a broad range of fields including alternative energy, biotechnology, chemicals, environmental engineering, materials, natural gas and petroleum. The TU chemical engineering experimental facilities and teaching laboratories are built around the industrial models of process control equipment and introduce the practical scenarios of professional engineering and graduate school settings. Major Minor Accelerated Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Environmental Food Natural gas Petroleum Petrochemicals Alumni Employers Cimarex Energy Dow Chemical Phillips 66 Williams Zeeco Chemistry Engineering and Natural Sciences Chemistry The bachelor of science degree in chemistry is certified by the American Chemical Society. This degree and the bachelor of arts degree include courses in chemistry, physics, mathematics, writing and humanities as well as interactive laboratories and a senior research project that serves as the groundwork for graduate or advanced professional study. Supporting work in mathematics and physics as well as personal selection of electives allow students to customize their degrees and match career objectives in environmental, advanced materials, applied, health and traditional areas of chemistry. Major Minor Job Opportunities Organic chemist Food scientist Forensic scientist Environmental inspector/technician Secondary education chemistry teacher Alumni Employers British Petroleum Baker-Hughes Intel Corporation Thermo Electric Corporation 3M Chinese Arts and Sciences Chinese The Chinese language program has small, student-centered language classes, study abroad experiences and challenging advanced-level courses. Students acquire greater awareness of and appreciation for Chinese-speaking cultures, develop proficiency in Chinese and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure. By studying foreign literature, students gain a deeper understanding of textual analysis and literary genres, styles and periods; and they engage with current scholarship to prepare themselves to participate in a global society. Minor Job Opportunities Medicine Law Government (U.S. or foreign) International business or engineering Teaching Classical Studies Arts and Sciences Classical Studies The classical studies program is designed for the traditional and nontraditional student who wants to acquire a solid foundation in the Greco-Roman world and its legacy. Students focus on languages, literature and civilizations. Through an emphasis on original text, students explore the powerful art of persuasion and rhetoric, philosophy and mythology. By gaining a deeper understanding of who they are and their place in the world, the program imparts crucial analytical and critical thinking skills. Certificate Job Opportunities Museum/gallery curator Archivist Heritage manager Barrister [Attorney] Higher education Clinical Psychology Arts and Sciences Clinical Psychology Clinical psychology course work includes formal course work in the core areas of psychology, research methods, personality and psychopathology, principles of psychological assessment and intervention and professional issues in clinical psychology. The program trains students to do what psychologists actually do in today’s society: ethically apply knowledge of psychological theory, assessment, research methodology and clinical skill to complex clinical problems. The program is based upon the scientist-practitioner model: psychological practice is the application of the theory, methods and results of scientific psychology to clinical problems. Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Agency Health care Organizational Consulting Academic Alumni Employers Atlanta VA Medical Center U.S. Army Pepsico Indiana University School of Medicine University of Florida Pain Research Coaching Health Sciences Coaching The coaching minor prepares students for coaching positions in a variety of athletic settings and is offered to non-exercise and sports science/athletic training majors. The course work required for this academic minor promotes student understanding of functional anatomy, basic injury prevention and care, and developing basic instructional skills. Students have the ability to tailor their minor through required elective course work. Minor Job Opportunities Athletic Coach Sports Teams Computational Sciences Engineering and Natural Sciences Computational Sciences Minoring in computational sciences involves using complex calculations to help solve problems in science and engineering. Students learn to conduct specific functions by exploring math-based computer science techniques such as algorithms. Courses include scientific programming, linear algebra and matrix theory, molecular modeling, experimental design and finite element analysis. This area is ideal for students interested in mathematical and computational techniques to advance fields that require extensive computation and data analysis. The degree offers an introduction to the concepts of computation, problematic modeling and statistical analysis. Minor Job Opportunities Game developer Software engineer Robotics engineer Secret Service agent Computer programmer Computer Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Computer Engineering The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering offers a master of science in engineering and a master of engineering in computer engineering as well as a doctor of philosophy in computer engineering. Students study computer circuitry, parallel computing, software system design, information theory, digital image processing and much more. The master of science in engineering is research oriented and requires a formal research thesis while the master of engineering program is course oriented. These programs provide advanced participation in specialized areas of electrical and computer engineering for recent graduates and working engineers who wish to improve their skills. Areas of interest include intelligent systems, renewable energy, robotics, embedded systems, VLSI design, power engineering, optical sensors and processing. Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Circuit design engineer Computer hardware engineer Aircraft simulator engineer Medical device engineer Power systems engineer Alumni Employers Microsoft Google U.S. Air Force CIA Oklahoma Gas and Electric Computer Information Systems Business Computer Information Systems If you’re a tech-savvy problem solver, then the computer information systems (CIS) field is for you. A career in CIS is quickly becoming one of the most alluring in the business world. In the age of digital information and communications, employers demand business professionals who can analyze the information needs of decision makers, design and specify systems to meet those needs and manage the computer technology requirements crucial to an organization’s competitiveness. CIS experts design and build systems to help gather the information necessary to run a business and help managers make critical decisions. CIS offers opportunities to work closely with professionals in accounting, finance, management and operations. New applications of technology in the workplace will continue to drive demand for CIS professionals. Major Minor Job Opportunities Project/team leader Information system analyst Applications programmer Software engineer Web developer Alumni Employers Chick-fil-A Corporation ConocoPhillips ONE Gas Paycom Phillips 66 Computer Science Engineering and Natural Sciences Computer Science The bachelor of science in computer science degree combines mathematics and the sciences with core computer science courses and is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, Inc. Graduates design new approaches to computing technology while studying, testing and analyzing software systems that drive today’s computing experience. Computer science students take classes in theory, design and processing techniques and are encouraged to pursue other advanced courses in game programming, web design, mobile app development, artificial intelligence, computer security and robotics. The degree is offered by the Tandy School of Computer Science, one of the top cyber security programs in the country designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations. Minor Major Accelerated Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Software engineer Robotics engineer Information security analyst Web developer Computer programmer Alumni Employers Amazon Google Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Hilti FlightSafety International Computer Simulation and Gaming Engineering and Natural Sciences Computer Simulation and Gaming TU’s computer simulation and gaming degree is modeled after the country’s top programs with a curriculum that features a set of core computer science classes along with more flexible options related to the gaming industry. The program allows students to combine highly technical skills with creativity in all areas of digital media such as art and imagery, animation, production, 3D modeling and sound engineering. Other courses provide basic knowledge in game programming and software development through theoretical and mathematical learning. Students launch their own successful entrepreneurial ventures or fill critical roles in some of today’s most well-known gaming companies. Major Minor Job Opportunities Game designer Game programmer Gaming art director Animator Gaming producer Alumni Employers Amazon Google Microsoft Hilti FlightSafety International Creative Writing Arts and Sciences Creative Writing Creative writing offers dynamic opportunities in creative expression to prepare for exciting writing careers. Students study literary technique, style, form, genre and the Anglo-American literary tradition while developing as poets, writers of fiction, creative nonfiction and performance-based work. Pursuing a degree in creative writing allows students to customize their course schedules with a freedom that reflects individual vision and voice. Classes are available in five departments: communication, English, film studies, languages and theatre. Students work closely with award-winning faculty whose accolades include a Guggenheim fellowship, a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship, a Truman Capote fellowship and many more. Major Minor Job Opportunities Columnist Ghostwriter Novelist Playwright Writing coach Alumni Employers Idaho State University Tulsa County Library University of Chicago University of Missouri University of Oklahoma Williams YouTube Cyber Security Engineering and Natural Sciences Cyber Security Ranked #23 nationally by U.S. News Best Undergraduate Cybersecurity Programs, TU offers an undergraduate minor, a B.S. and M.S. in Cyber Security, as well as a Ph.D in Cyber Studies. Graduates are equipped to meet employer demands and serve in intellectually stimulating and personally rewarding roles that strengthen national and global security, filling one of the more than one million open cyber security jobs. Students gain experience in the theory, concepts and techniques of information assurance and network defense in real-world settings. Courses are designed to be hands-on and project-based, emphasizing experiential learning and partnerships with employers. In addition to computer science, the program draws on faculty expertise from engineering, business, social sciences and the humanities to cultivate broader perspectives that match how cyber pervades modern life. As such, the curriculum emphasizes both technical and non-technical skills required for today’s cyber workforce. TU’s cyber program is certified by the NSA and US Department of Homeland Security as a Center of Excellence in Information Assurance Education, Research, and Cyber Operations. We plan to seek accreditation for the B.S. in Cyber Security from ABET, the accreditor who certifies TU’s BS degrees in engineering and computer science. The B.S. and M.S. in Cyber Security degrees also align with NIST’s National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE), which articulates cyber workforce competencies. Major Minor Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Chief Information Security Officer Cyber Defense Analyst Information Systems Security Developer Penetration Tester Systems Security Engineer Alumni Employers Amazon Google IBM X Force Red National Security Agency Paycom True Digital Security Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Health Sciences Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) The TU School of Nursing offers cutting-edge advanced practice nursing graduate programs that culminate with the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree. The graduate nursing programs at TU provide rigorous didactic and clinical experiences that prepare nurses to provide care and lead change. TU offers clinical concentrations in adult-gerontology acute care nurse practitioner (AG-ACNP), family nurse practitioner (FNP), nurse anesthesia (NA) as well as a post-master’s to DNP track for APRNs. Instructional preparation with intensive patient simulation and skills laboratory time is combined with faculty arranged clinical practicums and focused preceptors to provide an optimal learning environment for students. Doctoral Job Opportunities Emergency departments Hospitals Primary care clinics Urgent care and specialty clinics Alumni Employers Ascension St. John Medical Center Cancer Care Associates Integris Health Hillcrest HealthCare System Mercy Health Norman Regional Health System OU Physicians Bedlam Clinic Saint Francis Health System, Inc. Early Intervention Health Sciences Early Intervention The early intervention program is designed for students who plan to work with young children with special needs and their families and is recommended for, but not limited to, students in communication disorders, education, nursing and psychology. The mission is to offer a state-of-the-art program for students seeking careers in our nation’s schools or social services. Issues of race, gender, socio-economic class, equity, linguistic pluralism and social justice can be found in every classroom whether urban, suburban, rural, public or private. These issues form the philosophical foundation and the platform upon which students’ course of study are constructed. Minor Job Opportunities Elementary school teacher Secondary school teacher Special needs teacher Professor Child service professional Alumni Employers Tulsa Public Schools Jenks Public Schools Bishop Kelley High School Bixby Public Schools Sperry Public Schools Economics Arts & Sciences or Business Economics Do you ever wonder what motivates people to buy what they buy when they buy it? Economics deconstructs consumer behavior, explaining why your favorite brand of shoes costs so much and how the principle of supply and demand affects prices. Economists study how society distributes resources, such as land, labor, raw materials and machinery, to produce goods and services. They may conduct research, collect and analyze data, monitor economic trends or develop forecasts. Economists research a wide variety of issues including energy costs, inflation, interest rates, exchange rates, business cycles, taxes and employment levels, among others. Majoring in economics hones students’ technical competence and analytical abilities. Typically, economics majors pursue MBA degrees, landing jobs as business consultants in the nonprofit, private or public sectors or becoming college professors or government economists. Major Minor Job Opportunities Economist Financial analyst Purchasing manager Market analyst Stockbroker Alumni Employers Koch Industries JP Morgan Chase & Co., Intuit Inc. Waddell and Reed Williams Education Arts and Sciences Education The University of Tulsa Department of Education is committed to cultivating effective teachers who are critical thinkers, skillful learners, caring community partners, and engaged democratic citizens. Major Minor Job Opportunities Elementary school teacher Middle school teacher High school teacher Professor Child service professional Alumni Employers Tulsa Public Schools Jenks Public Schools Bishop Kelley High School Bixby Public Schools Sperry Public Schools Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Electrical and Computer Engineering Electrical and computer engineering involves researching, developing and testing electronic and computer components. These engineers study computing processes, circuit boards, memory devices, networks and routers while examining new frontiers in computer hardware. The electrical and computer engineering field is marked by its advancements in areas of technology such as optics, electric power systems and microelectronics. Students prepare for careers designing technology that simplifies day-to-day tasks while protecting the nation against cyber attacks to the nation’s infrastructure. Alumni develop and apply computer technology in industrial, commercial and military markets. Major Job Opportunities Aircraft simulator engineer Circuit design engineer Computer hardware engineer Medical device engineer Power systems engineer Alumni Employers American Electric Power CIA Google Microsoft Oklahoma Gas and Electric U.S. Air Force Electrical Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Electrical Engineering From motors to radar systems and power equipment, the work of electrical engineers contributes to the manufacturing, construction and installation of equipment to improve quality of life. Electrical engineers design and build equipment essential for communications systems, motor vehicles, aircraft and navigation networks. Students in this degree program are interested in researching, developing and testing optics, circuitry and other electronic power systems that often contribute to the innovative models of smart houses, self-driving cars, medical instruments and the nation’s power grid. Major Master Job Opportunities Aircraft simulator engineer Circuit design engineer Computer hardware engineer Medical device engineer Power systems engineer Alumni Employers American Electric Power CIA Google Microsoft Oklahoma Gas and Electric U.S. Air Force Elementary Education Arts and Sciences Elementary Education The mission is to offer a state-of-the-art program for students seeking careers in our nation’s elementary schools. Issues of race, gender, socio-economic class, equity, linguistic pluralism and social justice can be found in every classroom whether urban, suburban, rural, public or private. These issues form the philosophical foundation and the platform upon which students’ course of study are constructed. The teaching areas of study are anthropology, biology, chemistry, geosciences, physics, mathematics, English, French, German, Russian, Spanish, history, political science, sociology, art, theatre, music education, exercise and sports science, elementary education or deaf education. Major Job Opportunities Elementary school teacher Professor Child service professional Alumni Employers Tulsa Public Schools Jenks Public Schools Bishop Kelley High School Bixby Public Schools Sperry Public Schools Energy Business Business Energy Business The online Master of Energy Business provides an extraordinary educational experience that blends sound business knowledge and skills with contemporary energy issues and perspectives. The curriculum is delivered in a practical and applied approach, providing individuals what they need to know to run and manage an energy company. Graduates leave with a total system perspective of the energy industry and possess the knowledge and skills they need to flex their careers as the industry evolves. Individuals pursuing a major in the Collins College of Business may elect to add a minor in energy business. The minor encompasses fundamental knowledge of energy industry operations and permits students to more effectively target their education for careers across the global energy landscape. Master Minor Job Opportunities Operations landman Petroleum land manager Environmental manager Business development director Reservoir engineer Alumni Employers XTO Energy Kaiser-Francis Devon Energy Chevron Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Energy Management Business Energy Management TU’s interdisciplinary energy management major gives students a foundation in accounting, business law, finance, environmental economics, geology, petroleum engineering and energy commodities trading. Energy management graduates can land lucrative jobs upstream in exploration and production, midstream in energy commodities trading or downstream in processing and manufacturing. The job outlook for the energy management field is optimistic. An aging workforce that will soon retire means younger professionals have the opportunity to advance quickly in this career. Major Job Opportunities Petroleum land manager Futures trader Environmental manager Gas marketing representative Land manager power trader Alumni Employers Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Chevron Devon Energy ExxonMobil WPX Energy Engineering Physics Engineering and Natural Sciences Engineering Physics The field of physics generally involves studying the universe through string theory, particle physics, quantum mechanics and astrophysics. However, engineering physicists are more interested in applying their skills and knowledge to innovation and problem solving in wide ranging areas such as materials science, nanotechnology, quantum computing, lasers, semiconductors and astrophysics. The engineering physics degree differs from other engineering courses of study in that additional mathematics and physics courses are substituted for select upper level courses. Through an interdisciplinary curriculum, engineering physics students prepare for rapidly changing careers that overlap traditional boundaries between science and engineering. Major Job Opportunities Engineering physicist Materials scientist Aerospace engineer Electrical engineer Mechanical engineer Alumni Employers Google Intel Centers for Disease Control Lockheed-Martin Williams Companies English Arts and Sciences English The English program provides historical and critical exposure in British, American and Irish literature while offering opportunities to attend creative writing workshops, lectures and conferences led by novelists and poets of international recognition. Classes typically range in size from 15 to 20 students and emphasize lecture and discussion. Alumni often pursue advanced degrees in law, medicine or business, but also are well respected in the fields of journalism, publishing, teaching, advertising, public relations and marketing. An English degree is foundational knowledge for other careers beyond communication including social work, law, public service, business and health care. Major Minor Job Opportunities Copywriter Publisher Reporter Teacher Technical writer Alumni Employers Idaho State University Teach for America Tulsa County Library University of Chicago University of Missouri University of Oklahoma English Language and Literature Arts and Sciences English Language and Literature In TU’s nationally recognized graduate English programs, students train as teachers, scholars and writers to advance in existing careers and to become professors and research writers in specific literary fields. Students work closely with graduate faculty in small seminars that average eight students, in one-on-one independent and directed readings and in workshops on writing and teaching. There are no required courses or courses of study. Instead, students choose from among the seminars offered each semester according to their individual interests and particular professional needs. Master Doctoral Job Opportunities University teaching Secondary school teaching Publishing and editorial work Nonprofit work Grant writing Alumni Employers The University of Missouri Consumer Affairs University of Oklahoma Pfeiffer University Ohio University Environmental Policy Arts and Sciences Environmental Policy Environmental policy students combine an understanding of environmental problems with knowledge of human needs, history, politics and economics to derive practical solutions to environmental issues. They engage in an interdisciplinary study of humankind’s impact on nature. Those in the field may study policy on polluted areas, advise environmental officials and promote waste reduction in the industry. Students can custom design their degree plan based on their area of strength such as field ecology, plant diversity, environmental anthropology, hazardous substances, constitutional law or environmental issues in developing nations. Major Job Opportunities Urban planner Environmental economist Transportation engineer Conservation scientist Sustainability analyst Alumni Employers Army Corps of Engineers U.S. Department of Transportation USDA National Resources Conservation Service Conoco Phillips US Fish and Wildlife Service Exercise and Sports Science Health Sciences Exercise and Sports Science Exercise and Sports Science practitioners provide health care, technique and skill instruction as well as performance enhancement for the physically active population. Students gain foundational knowledge for this practice by studying how physical activity influences the human body. The Exercise and Sports Science degree program at The University of Tulsa has the flexibility to prepare students for graduate or professional healthcare programs, such as medicine, physical therapy, occupational therapy, cardiac rehabilitation and athletic training or other fields related to exercise science within the corporate or commercial fitness setting. Major Minor Job Opportunities Cardiac Rehabilitation Hospitals/Medical Centers Orthopedic Rehabilitation Sports Medicine Clinics Universities/Colleges/Schools Alumni Employers Advanced Orthopedics of Oklahoma Associated Anesthesiologists OU-TU School of Community Medicine Select Physical Therapy Saint Francis Health System, Inc. Saint Simeon’s Senior Community Select Physical Therapy Tulsa Health Department Tulsa Spine and Rehab Tulsa Public Schools Wellness Centers Film Scoring Arts and Sciences Film Scoring Film scoring offers students an introduction into the art and technology of scoring music for film. Guests from the film scoring industry mentor students and even record scenes from films with full orchestra. Young film composers develop competitive portfolios while working in state-of-the-art studios and post-production labs. Seniors work closely with faculty to create a capstone film or screenplay project. Hollywood directors such as Ed Ornelas, actors like Tim Blake Nelson and authors including TU alumna S.E. Hinton have visited campus for guest lectures and seminars. Minor Job Opportunities Production coordinator Director Digital producer Composer Screenwriter Alumni Employers Saturday Night Live MLB Network Pacific Productions Cosby Harrison Company Circle Cinema Film Studies Arts and Sciences Film Studies Film Studies offers students the opportunity to study every aspect of film including history, theory, production, screenwriting and scoring. Students choose from more than 40 courses in film genres, scoring, writing, narrative and animation filmmaking, documentary, digital recording, entertainment law, editing and television. Young filmmakers develop competitive portfolios while working in state-of-the-art studios and post-production labs. Seniors work closely with faculty to create a capstone film or screenplay. Hollywood directors such as Ed Ornelas, actors like Tim Blake Nelson and authors including TU alumna S.E. Hinton have visited campus for guest lectures and student mentoring. Major Minor Job Opportunities Production coordinator Director Digital producer Script supervisor Screenwriter Alumni Employers Saturday Night Live Paramount Pictures American Idol – ABC MLB Network Circle Cinema Finance Business Finance The number of career paths and options in finance is extensive, including corporate finance, banking and investment planning. Finance majors help track daily operations within an organization, analyze the current financial position and plan for future corporate expenditures and acquisitions. TU students can gain hands-on experience by managing the Student Investment Fund, a $5 million portfolio of real money. In our Risk Management Center, a lifelike financial laboratory complete with stock ticker boards, extensive financial databases, Bloomberg terminals and computers, students can apply concepts learned in the classroom. Major Minor Job Opportunities Bank manager Financial planner Financial analyst Mutual fund manager Chief financial officer Alumni Employers ConocoPhillips Helmerich & Payne JP Morgan Chase & Co. Southwest Airlines French Arts and Sciences French The French language program has small, student-centered language classes, study abroad experiences and challenging advanced-level courses. Students acquire greater awareness of and appreciation for French-speaking cultures, develop proficiency in French and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure. By studying foreign literature, students gain a deeper understanding of textual analysis and literary genres, styles and periods; and they engage with current scholarship to prepare themselves to participate in a global society. Major Minor Job Opportunities Medicine Law Government (U.S. or foreign) International business or engineering Teaching Alumni Employers U.S. Department of Justice Amazon Indian Nations Council of Governments Mode7 Media Conoco Phillips Geosciences Engineering and Natural Sciences Geosciences The geosciences degree prepares students for careers in the study of Earth’s physical characteristics including composition, structure and processes. As a geoscientist, graduates can work at organizations, corporations and government entities as well as in mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction industries where fieldwork is prominent. The environmental sciences option of the geosciences degree provides the tools needed to investigate the Earth’s components while considering environmental factors. The geology option offers a broader education to apply geological sciences in nontechnical careers such as scientific writing, business and elementary or secondary teaching. The geophysics option provides students with the fundamentals of the physics discipline as they study Earth’s materials and organic systems. The biogeosciences option incorporates the hard sciences, mathematics and statistics with the core fundamentals of biology and geosciences to focus on Earth systems science. Major Accelerated Master Job Opportunities Hydrologist Reservoir geologist Remediation specialist Geophysicist Teacher <!– Exploration geologist –> Alumni Employers Newfield Exploration Saudi Aramco Unit Corporation Schlumberger Chevron German Arts and Sciences German The German language program has small, student-centered language classes, study abroad experiences and challenging advanced-level courses. Students acquire greater awareness of and appreciation for German-speaking cultures, develop proficiency in German and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure. By studying foreign literature, students gain a deeper understanding of textual analysis and literary genres, styles and periods; and they engage with current scholarship to prepare themselves to participate in a global society. Major Minor Job Opportunities Medicine Law Government (U.S. or foreign) International business or engineering Teaching Alumni Employers U.S. Department of Justice Amazon Indian Nations Council of Governments Mode7 Media Conoco Phillips Health Care Delivery Science Health Sciences Health Care Delivery Science The Certificate in Health Care Delivery Sciences offers opportunities for mid-career professionals to lead the future of the health industry. Through our online-based program, we help learners understand the current state of healthcare delivery, while preparing them for future trends in clinical, financial and regulatory policies. Students in the program will receive training in a broad number of skills including population health, policy, healthcare financing, communications, quality improvement, safety, ethics, and health information technology – with special emphasis on the interplay between physical wellness, behavioral illness and the social determinants of health. Certificate Job Opportunities Medical Director Chief Nursing Officer Executive Director Health Law Clinical Administrator Health Sciences Health Sciences Health Sciences The Health Sciences Minor is intended to provide students with a broader understanding of universal concepts related to health and healthcare. It is recommended for students from any major who plan to work in any aspect of healthcare. The coursework required for this academic minor allows students to tailor the 12 required credit hours from a list of courses that represent a variety of health and healthcare related disciplines. Minor High Performance Computing Science Engineering and Natural Sciences High Performance Computing Science The high performance computing minor is designed to help students prepare for careers in supercomputing. High performance computing is applied in many disciplines such as physics, geophysics, geology, petroleum engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, computer engineering, mathematics, chemistry, chemical engineering and biology. Supercomputers often are used to solve multidisciplinary topics, and teams of engineers at the professional level prefer members skilled in computer programming, hardware and web domains. The objective of the minor track is to help students develop a core set of competencies and solve problems that require large processing capabilities beyond those found in mainstream computers. Students must take 15 credit hours in foundational mathematics, foundational programming, high-performance computing core and electives. Examples of supercomputing include modeling quantum mechanics or searching large medical data sets to determine which protein structures are effective in fighting disease. Minor History Arts and Sciences History History exposes students to significant historical issues while challenging the intellect, sharpening analytical skills and stimulating the imagination. Historians are key contributors at government agencies, museums, archives, historical societies, research organizations, nonprofits and consulting firms. Students are encouraged to specialize in the following areas: premodern Europe, the United States, Latin America, Russia and Eastern Europe, Western Europe and the Far East. The major encourages a comparative approach to learning, initially focusing on ancient, modern and non-Western history. Students choose from an innovative list of specialized or thematic courses within a geographical area of interest. Major Minor Job Opportunities Law Journalism Library and museum work Education Local, state, national and international public service Alumni Employers Federal Bureau of Investigation Sotheby’s Auction House U.S. Department of Justice The City of Tulsa The YMCA Industrial-Organizational Psychology Arts and Sciences Industrial-Organizational Psychology Industrial-organizational psychology focuses on mastering key knowledge and skills needed to help organizations succeed; and the doctoral program expands those skills, targeting creation and dissemination of new knowledge in the field of I-O Psychology through scientific research. Types of courses offered include job analysis, employee selection, training, leadership, work motivation, organizational development, psychological measurement and statistics. The program is designed to develop the skills necessary for basic consulting projects in business and government. Graduates typically find jobs involving analysis of jobs and people as a basis for improving the fit between them. Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Industry Government Consulting Research Academic Alumni Employers Hogan Assessment Systems SHL Williams PepsiCo Amazon Innovation, Change and Entrepreneurship Business Innovation, Change and Entrepreneurship Students begin the minor in innovation and entrepreneurship in their sophomore year and complete it during their senior year. After taking three fundamental courses, students can choose two additional courses to specialize in business, social or technology entrepreneurship. Minor Job Opportunities Public relations manager Account representative Advertising manager Product/brand manager Market research analyst Alumni Employers Cimarex Energy Consumer Logic JD Young Tulsa Drillers U.S. Government International Business and Language Business International Business and Language TU’s international business and language degree prepares students for success in the global marketplace. IBL combines foreign language competency and course work in international business with a business degree. IBL students participate in study abroad and often find international business internships hosted by foreign companies. A comprehensive business foundation combined with an understanding of cultural nuances position graduates to compete successfully in an international arena. The international business minor is designed for business majors and combines a competency in a modern foreign language, international business courses and electives that cover economics, international relations and cultural awareness and understanding. Students are required to participate in study abroad programs. The minor includes intermediate language proficiency. Major Minor Job Opportunities Exporter/importer Business analyst Policy advisor Marketing/sales Supply chain management Alumni Employers Baker Hughes Centrilift U.S. Department of State Rely Energy Juris Doctor Law Juris Doctor The JD program prepares students to excel in legal and related professions. Outstanding faculty, high-level scholarship, robust experiential learning programs, and a commitment to public service and professionalism stand at the core of the college. Selected as a “Best Value Law School” by preLaw Magazine, TU Law was recently ranked #1 in Oklahoma and #15 nationally for 2017 graduate job placement in Bar license required and JD advantage jobs. Students can specialize in criminal, energy, environmental, family, health, intellectual property, immigration or Native American law. Accelerated and joint degrees are offered along with study abroad options. Accelerated Master Job Opportunities Attorney Business Manager Executive Director Government and Politics Judge Alumni Employers Baker Botts LLP CHRISTUS Health Conner & Winters Davis Wright Tremaine LLP GableGotwals® Law, Policy and Social Justice Law Law, Policy and Social Justice This program integrates undergraduate learning with Juris Doctor (JD) courses in law, policy and society. Learn about the ethics, the law and psychology of responsibility as well as the politics of the Global Commons. There are a range of electives to customize your minor ranging from Sports Law to Environmental Law. Minor Job Opportunities Public Interest work Government jobs Nonprofits Management Business Management Management majors can specialize in innovation and entrepreneurship, business law, sport management or human resources management. They formulate the policies and direct the operations of corporations, nonprofit organizations and government agencies, or chart their own path by pursuing new ventures as entrepreneurs. Students have numerous opportunities for practical, hands-on learning. At TU, management majors develop communication, critical thinking and problem-solving skills while learning management concepts. Major Job Opportunities Human resource management Benefits manager Labor relations manager Entrepreneur Restaurant/hotel manager Alumni Employers Blue Cross Blue Shield ConocoPhillips Saint Francis Hospital Walt Disney World Wells Fargo Financial Marketing Business Marketing Marketing professionals solve a fundamental problem — how to connect a product or service to its customers. TU marketing majors develop communication, problem-solving and critical thinking skills in the classroom. After learning the theory of marketing, students are given opportunities for practical, hands-on experience with real-world clients. Studio Blue, TU’s creative greenhouse, encourages innovation and problem solving in a free-flowing environment equipped with mobile furniture, magnetic and dry-erase walls, a viewing room for focus groups and other brainstorming tools. Major Minor Job Opportunities Marketing manager Public relations manager Advertising manager Product/brand manager Market research analyst Alumni Employers BlueView Digital Agency Enterprise Rent-A-Car Kansas City Area Development Council Reynolds & Reynolds Tulsa Drillers Mathematics Engineering and Natural Sciences Mathematics Mathematics majors solve challenging problems in science, engineering, business, education and government. TU’s curriculum emphasizes the theory and application of math while promoting the use of modern communication tools, modeling and computation necessary for interdisciplinary problem solving and research. Students prepare to use advanced mathematics in the development of mathematic principles, data analysis and problem solving. They work closely with engineers and scientists in government, private corporations and research companies. Math graduates are essential to the fields of computer science, engineering, bioinformatics, data mining, computer animation, economics, epidemiology, ecology and climatology. Major Minor Job Opportunities Financial analyst Marketing statistician Software design engineer Medical imaging analyst Computational biologist Alumni Employers NORDAM National Weather Service Google Shell Oil National Security Agency Mechanical Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Mechanical Engineering Mechanical engineering majors complete courses rooted in mathematics and sciences while developing creativity, disciplined reasoning, communication skills, knowledge of advanced technology and sound ethical practices. The TU curriculum and its interactive teaching methods help students shape their experimental skills while learning theory and analyses of product design and development. The program is renowned for its hands-on projects that serve local industry and community organizations. As skilled technicians in one of the broadest engineering disciplines, mechanical engineers enjoy careers in the development, construction, testing and implementation of tools, engines and machines. Major Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Automotive engineer Burns & McDonnell Cryogenics engineer Fluid mechanics engineer Manufacturing engineer Power generation engineer Alumni Employers ConocoPhillips Ford Anheuser-Busch Boeing NORDAM Media Studies Arts and Sciences Media Studies Students examine the role of communication in society and explore its major theories. The faculty seeks to foster a critical commitment, expressed through many media (writing, public speaking, moving images, sound, etc.), to serve civic responsibilities and social progress. Courses develop analytic thought, clear writing, visual literacy, effective speaking and cultural, global awareness, which prepare students for graduate study and career success. The programs is committed to critically and creatively engaging the world of media so that students become more fluent communicators, critical analysts, storytellers and creative directors. Major Minor Job Opportunities Marketing specialist Creative director Media planner Copywriter Reporter Alumni Employers Coca-Cola The Gathering Place The City of Tulsa JNA Advertising Byers Creative Medieval and Early Modern Studies Minor Arts and Sciences Medieval and Early Modern Studies Minor The minor in Medieval and Early Modern Studies is an interdisciplinary program spanning the years c. 300 to 1800 CE with a focus on the geography, cultures, and the intellectual traditions of Europe. At the same time, the program is predicated on an awareness that Europe did not exist in isolation and must be studied in broader context, with attention to its environs, colonies, trade routes, and to sources of artistic, intellectual, and theological inspirations outside of its geographical boundaries. Minor Job Opportunities Public relations professional Advertising agent Creative director Videographer Journalism Museum Science and Management Graduate School Museum Science and Management The Museum Science and Management program provides both interdisciplinary coursework and hands-on experience designed to prepare future museum professionals in administration, fiscal management, collections care and research and education. Students gain experience in using objects and collections in research, exhibition, publication and programming. Students develop useful skills and insights in administration and fundraising. Internships at regional or national cultural institutions provide practical experience for students in their selected track Master Job Opportunities Museum administration Fiscal management Collections care and research Museum education Arts advocate Museum Studies Arts and Sciences Museum Studies The museum studies program is designed for students who wish to enhance their knowledge of the history and role of museums as well as issues of cultural heritage and historic preservation. Students are prepared for graduate study leading to careers in museum work by exploring the curation of material culture including ethnographic, artistic and historical artifacts, everyday museum operations, and museology’s current theoretical, political and ethical concerns. Minor Job Opportunities Museum administration Fiscal management Collections care and research Museum education Arts advocate Music & Music Education Arts and Sciences Music & Music Education TU’s School of Music upholds a rich tradition of excellence in music performance and exceptional teaching by distinguished faculty. Students follow a comprehensive music curriculum that offers many vocal and instrumental ensembles with emphases in jazz, classical and film music. Undergraduate degrees are available in music and music education. Students may join any of TU’s performance organizations including the Concert Chorale, Cappella Singers, Opera Workshop, Symphony Orchestra, Sound of the Golden Hurricane Marching Band, Jazz Band, Vocal Jazz, Wind Ensemble and Symphonic Winds. Major Minor Job Opportunities Symphony orchestra musician Commercial musician Composer Music educator Studio recording musician Alumni Employers Signature Symphony Tulsa Symphony Orchestra Tulsa Public Schools Holland Hall Preparatory School Tulsa Opera Neuroscience Engineering and Natural Sciences Neuroscience TU’s minor in neuroscience provides foundational knowledge of the structure and function of the brain and nervous system. The program is a collaboration between multiple departments in the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences and the Kendall College of Arts and Sciences. The curriculum requires 22 credit hours in the biological science, biochemistry, psychology and computer science programs. Enrollment is open to students in all colleges and is especially ideal for those considering graduate study in neuroscience or careers in medicine, psychology, occupational therapy and artificial intelligence. Minor Nursing Health Sciences Nursing For more than 40 years, the TU School of Nursing has been transforming exceptional students into nurses who can forever change the lives of others and the communities in which they live. As part of the Oxley College of Health Sciences, our faculty and students collaborate, research and learn the best practices that advance the science and art of nursing. The Bachelor of Science Nursing program combines a strong educational core that fosters critical thinking with clinical training that incorporates the latest technology and protocols. Students graduate equipped to practice in a variety of complex clinical settings. Major Job Opportunities Clinic Nurse Home Health Care Hospital Long-Term Care Facility School Nurse Alumni Employers Baylor University Medical Center – Dallas, Texas Hillcrest Medical Center – Tulsa Memorial Hermann – Houston, Texas Saint Francis Hospital – Tulsa Saint Luke’s Health System – Kansas City, Mo. St. Anthony Hospital – Oklahoma City Organizational Studies Arts and Sciences Organizational Studies Organizational studies blends the disciplines of organizational communication and industrial organizational psychology with management. By studying organizational behavior and structure in the public and private realms, students acquire the knowledge and skills that prepare them for entry-level administrative positions in both public and private organizations. The organizational studies major builds on the general education through a variety of courses in business, management, communication and psychology. The interdisciplinary degree allows students to custom design their schedule based on individual interest. Major Job Opportunities Administrative service manager Business & nonprofit consultant Community services manager Human resources manager Policy analyst Enterprise Rent-A-Car Red Fuse Communications McElroy Manufacturing, Inc. Petroleum Engineering Engineering and Natural Sciences Petroleum Engineering The petroleum engineering undergraduate program prepares students for exciting energy careers in the United States and abroad. Petroleum engineering focuses on the development, exploration, drilling, production and management of oil and natural gas resources and other minerals. Based on the solid fundamentals of math, physics and chemistry, the program includes courses in geology as well as fluid and solid mechanics. Students can choose to specialize in drilling, production or reservoir engineering to establish careers within companies, as consultants or as independent oil and gas producers. Undergraduates have an opportunity to work with state-of-the-art research and simulation equipment on the main campus and TU’s historic North Campus. Major Minor Master Doctoral Job Opportunities Drilling engineer Completions engineer Geoscientist Industrial engineer Reservoir engineer Alumni Employers Cimarex Energy ConocoPhillips Halliburton Helmerich & Payne Schlumberger Limited Philosophy Arts and Sciences Philosophy Philosophy explores the most fundamental questions about human life, including the nature and meaning of the human experience and the limits of knowledge. The program introduces students to the great thinkers and ideas that have shaped our past and present culture. Students develop important intellectual skills such as critical thinking, evaluation, the ability to see implications and alternatives and writing with insight and persuasive power. Students explore the moral and political philosophy, philosophy of logic, philosophy of language, the history of analytic philosophy and ancient philosophy. Minor Job Opportunities Attorney Writer Professor Nonprofit administrator Public Service official Physics Engineering and Natural Sciences Physics Physics is the most fundamental of the sciences with principles tied to all other physical science and engineering disciplines. Physicists study how the universe works through research in fields such as string theory, particle physics, quantum mechanics, nanotechnology, optics and astrophysics. The program offers students a foundation in physics and mathematics in preparation for technical or scientific careers. The bachelor of science in physics is necessary for a more technical or scientific role in industry or for advanced graduate study in professional programs such as medicine or law. The bachelor of arts features a thorough undergraduate core curriculum. Major Minor Job Opportunities Physicist Engineer Educator Technician Physician Alumni Employers Google Intel Centers for Disease Control & Prevention Lockheed-Martin Williams Political Science Arts and Sciences Political Science Political science students are interested in political ideas, institutions and behavior; rights and responsibilities of citizens; and the relationship of people to government. Students gain a broad knowledge of domestic and foreign political institutions by examining political ideologies, collecting and analyzing data from public opinion surveys and election results to develop and test political theories. The program focuses on three areas: American politics, international studies and political and legal theory. The curriculum prepares graduates for careers in law, government service, administration, journalism, teaching, lobbying, nonprofit activities, corporate strategy, military and police. Major Minor Job Opportunities Attorney Campaign manager Corporate affairs adviser Congressional office or committee staffer Foreign service officer Alumni Employers U.S. Senate George Kaiser Foundation Oklahoma House of Representatives The City of Tulsa Psychology Arts and Sciences Psychology Psychology is the study of human nature — how people use information, what motivates them and how they develop and change. Psychologists study behavior and brain function, collect information, identify disorders and research emotional patterns. They apply methods such as observation, assessment and experimentation to develop theories about the beliefs and feelings that influence a person. While most people are aware of clinical psychology, psychology’s domain is broad and encompasses many subfields including counseling, developmental, forensic, industrial-organizational, school and social psychology. Students develop critical thinking and scientific skills to solve human problems important to all of those areas. Major Minor Job Opportunities Caseworker Employment recruiter Psychologist Social worker Therapist Alumni Employers Atlanta VA Medical Center Hogan Assessment Systems Indiana University School of Medicine Laureate Psychiatric Clinic and Hospital Pepsico University of Florida Pain Research and Intervention Center of Excellence U.S. Army Religion Arts and Sciences Religion The religion program is designed to deepen the understanding of humanity’s personal and cultural experience of religion. The belief and practices of religious people, past and present, are treated in the course offerings which include introductory courses of interest to the general student and courses in the following curriculum areas: the Bible and literature; ethics and society; and philosophy and religion. The course of study encourages a critical approach to religious texts and traditions, emphasizing literary, historical, philosophical, theological and moral inquiries. Course offerings are designed to expose students to the variety of religious languages, literatures and modes of inquiry. Minor Job Opportunities Director of religious education Mediation attorney Professor Nonprofit administrator Human services coordinator Sociology Arts and Sciences Sociology Developing the ability to analyze society is a core component of anyone’s education and personal development. Sociologists study social behavior through the observation of group dynamics, cultures, organization structures and social development. TU’s sociology majors can design a customized program of study in preparation for graduate school, professional school (law, business, medicine) and for careers in social service, government, research, consulting, teaching or business. Alumni often find careers in the criminal justice system, social service agencies, urban planning, environmental regulatory agencies and survey research organizations. Major Minor Job Opportunities Human resources manager Project manager Extension service specialist Admissions counselor Human rights worker Alumni Employers U.S. Department of Justice Children’s Mercy Hospital IBM, Office of Governmental Programs George Kaiser Family Foundation Anheuser-Busch InBev APAC Spanish Arts and Sciences Spanish The Spanish language program has small, student-centered language classes, study abroad experiences and challenging advanced-level courses. Students acquire greater awareness of and appreciation for Spanish-speaking cultures, develop proficiency in Spanish and a basic understanding of its linguistic structure. By studying foreign literature, students gain a deeper understanding of textual analysis and literary genres, styles and periods; and they engage with current scholarship to prepare themselves to participate in a global society. Major Minor Job Opportunities Medicine Law Government (U.S. or foreign) International business or engineering Teaching Alumni Employers U.S. Department of Justice Amazon Indian Nations Council of Governments Mode7 Media Conoco Phillips Speech-Language Pathology Health Sciences Speech-Language Pathology The Bachelor of Science degree in speech-language pathology at TU provides students with a strong academic and clinical foundation for graduate work in the areas of speech-language pathology and audiology. Most students who graduate with their undergraduate degree in speech-language pathology attend a master’s program in speech-language pathology, which is the entry degree into the field. Other graduates of this program attend universities that offer the Doctoral Degree in Audiology (AuD). Occasionally, graduates enter different master’s programs such as the Master of Science in Health Administration. Major Minor Master Job Opportunities Acute Care Hospitals College / Universities Early Intervention K-12 Schools Pre-School Private Practice Rehabilitation Facilitates Private Practice Alumni Employers Bixby Public Schools Broken Arrow Public Schools Hillcrest HealthCare System Saint Francis Health System, Inc. Tulsa Public Schools Union Public Schools Sport Management Business Sport Management A minor in sport management prepares individuals for entry-level positions in the sport industry or enhances sport administration knowledge necessary for advancement in current positions. The sport management minor focuses on the issues and practices of business management in a sport context. Minor Job Opportunities Account manager Sports agent Public relations associate General manager Marketing manager Women’s and Gender Studies Arts and Sciences Women’s and Gender Studies Women’s and gender studies examines how gender and other intersecting factors such as race, class, culture, sexuality and age have shaped the life experiences of women and men from diverse backgrounds. TU’s program analyzes how contemporary and historical dynamics impact women and men while exploring ways in which they seek equality. By promoting awareness and knowledge of status-based oppression, inter-relationships and ways in which historical civil rights movements have struggled for equality, TU seeks to change attitudes and practices that silence voices or devalue people’s choices and life experiences. Major Minor Job Opportunities Consultant (industry, higher ed, personnel) Community development program specialist Family support provider Case manager County juvenile justice specialist Alumni Employers Girl Scouts of Eastern Oklahoma Counseling and Recovery Services of Oklahoma Reading Partners of Tulsa National Center for PTSD Teach for America No items were found matching the current filters. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT