Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Social Media Policy Social Media Policy The University of Tulsa (“TU” or “University”) welcomes the ability to network with and engage students, alumni, faculty, staff, prospective students, parents, contractors/business partners and TU friends and fans through Social Media. TU utilizes a network of Social Media platforms, including: Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Reddit, Snapchat, YouTube, TikTok, third party wikis, virtual worlds, department/organization blog hosting sites, TU listservs, etc. (“Social Media”), with the goal of establishing an ongoing positive conversation with the community and a dynamic and accessible web presence both internally and externally to TU. The term “Social Media” in this Policy is construed broadly to include any interactive communication technologies that may be used by TU students and employees, regardless of whether the Social Media platform is a TU hosted/sponsored Social Media account (“TU Social Media”) or an external (non-TU) Social Media account. TU recognizes the importance of Social Media as a communication and educational tool and promotes the use of Social Media in accordance with this Policy, other applicable TU policies, procedures and guidelines and any agreements between TU and the student/employee. Use of TU-Hosted/Sponsored Social Media Platforms TU strongly encourages the strategic integration of any digital media platform that can help achieve the objectives of TU and facilitate communication and educational objectives. TU’s goal is to connect positively with the TU community and provide information about the University. TU encourages the expression of opinions and discussion of those topics which surround our great University. Users should respect the views of others, even if they disagree. The TU Office of Marketing and Communications oversees TU’s presence on TU Social Media platforms. TU reserves the right to monitor and moderate all content of TU Social Media accounts and users should have no expectation of privacy when using or interacting with such accounts. TU reserves the right to remove any posting that violates any University policies, procedures or guidelines or applicable laws/regulations. The opinions expressed by visitors on TU Social Media accounts are those of the person making the post; they do not necessarily reflect the opinions, policies or position of TU. Content and/or images will be removed from TU Social Media accounts when such posts violate TU policies, procedures or other guidelines such as the University’s Student Code of Conduct, Non-Discrimination Policy, Policy on Sexual Misconduct, Policy on Harassment, guidelines regarding advertisements, political or fundraising solicitations, etc. or applicable laws/regulations, such as content/images that are: Obscene, pornographic, defamatory, racist, excessively violent, threatening, bullying or otherwise objectionable or injurious Personal attacks on other users, TU students/employees or the University Harassing, threatening, insulting, defaming or bullying another person or entity Containing illegal activity Advertisements, political or fundraising solicitations, spam or copyright/trademark infringement Off-topic posts inappropriate for the forum TU reserves the right, at its discretion, to remove any post or to revoke a user’s privilege to post to TU’s Social Media platforms. Student & Employee Use of TU-Hosted/Sponsored Social Media Accounts OR Personal Social Media Accounts In addition to the above, students and employees who use TU Social Media accounts OR personal Social Media accounts are expected to: Comply with TU University policies, procedures or other guidelines. For instance, students and employees: May not use Social Media to make comments that are obscene, pornographic, defamatory, racist, excessively violent, threatening, bullying or otherwise objectionable or injurious when such comments are counter to TU’s Non-Discrimination Policy, Student Code of Conduct, Policy on Harassment or other applicable policy; Wishing to use TU logos, trade names, trademarks and/or copyrighted material can find usage requirements set forth in TU’s Graphic Style Guidelines. Comply with other applicable laws/regulations. Students using TU-hosted/sponsored Social Media OR personal Social Media accounts are also expected to: Comply with the Student Code of Conduct and specific college, department, program, course, instructor, classroom or team/club/organization rules set forth on the TU website, in a course syllabus or in other materials distributed or communicated by TU employees and Uphold the ethical and professional conduct standards of their prospective/current professions and/or affiliations. Employees using TU-hosted/sponsored Social Media OR personal Social Media accounts are also expected to: Post on Social Media in their official capacity as a TU employee only when authorized to do so; Be clear that they represent TU when using Social Media as an employee of the University and working in an official capacity; Respect TU confidential/protected information, including student, personnel and business information that is confidential/personal in nature and comply with applicable privacy laws such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA); Respect third party brands, trademarks and copyrighted and/or confidential material when using Social Media as an employee of TU; Uphold the ethical and professional conduct standards of your profession; and Not use Social Media for private/personal matters (unrelated to your job responsibilities) during hours in which employees are being compensated for their work for TU, unless it is on a limited basis, does not interfere with the employee’s job responsibilities, and otherwise complies with this Policy and University policies, procedures and guidelines. Students or employees who use personal Social Media accounts in association with or in reference to TU courses, University activities/affairs or other University events are considered the owners of such accounts and are individually responsible for the content found in such personal Social Media accounts. Keep personal Social Media accounts separate from TU Social Media accounts; Avoid creating any impression that you are acting in an official capacity with TU or otherwise representing TU when using Social Media for private/personal matters and/or opinions; and Consider using a disclaimer such as, “Views and opinions expressed are my own and do not reflect that of TU” when using Social Media for private/personal reasons and referencing TU matters. Be aware that personal liability can be incurred for content posted or maintained by individuals on Social Media. Managing TU-Hosted/Sponsored Social Media Accounts Anyone who formally communicates on behalf of TU, including any TU college, department, program, instructor or team/club/organization, is responsible for understanding and following these TU Social Media standards. TU Social Media accounts are reviewed regularly, and accounts that fail to meet these standards will be removed. It is important to recognize that TU content can have far-reaching consequences, potentially hurting the TU image and reputation, as well as those of your colleagues, peers and others affiliated with TU. Working with the Department of Strategic Marketing and Communication: To assist with social media management and business continuity, a representative of the TU Department of Strategic Marketing and Communication must have administrative rights to the account. Content must adhere to TU brand guidelines, including, but not limited to, use of color, graphics and logos. Content and images intended to endorse commercial products or services are not permitted under TU policy and will be removed. Content and images that violate any TU policies, procedures and guidelines or applicable laws/regulations will be removed. Content and images with profanity, offensive language or hate speech will be removed. Content and images that attack or threaten TU employees or students will be removed. TU must have the contact information of one of the TU Social Media account administrators. This ensures no content is published during a campus emergency. We need your help to make TU’s Social Media exciting, engaging, inclusive and strategic. If you are interested in improving your content, please reach out to Marketing and Communications. Let us help you best target your audience and use up-to-date Social Media marketing strategies. We appreciate your cooperation. Enforcement: TU will act when it determines that Social Media use/postings violate TU policies, procedures and guidelines. Failure to comply with this Policy could put future participation on TU Social Media accounts at risk and/or may lead to disciplinary action pursuant to applicable TU policies, procedures and guidelines, up to and including student dismissal or termination of employment. This enforcement includes comments and images on both TU Social Media accounts and external Social Media accounts. Establishing an official TU Social Media Account TU representation on all social media platforms must be authorized through the Department of Strategic Marketing and Communications. Before a new TU account can be approved, these answers and items need to be provided in a report: What is the purpose for the social media account? Who is the audience? Is there enough content to post daily? Which social media platform(s) best suit the content and audience? Would this content be better served on the main TU social media accounts? Will there be enough people engaging with the content to maintain a social media account? One month’s worth of editorial content needs to be included in the report. From event advertisements to news articles, provide the types of posts you expect to be publishing. This Social Media Policy is subject to change at the discretion of TU. If you wish to report a concern, have any questions regarding this Policy or if you are interested in creating a TU-hosted/sponsored Social Media account, please email news@utulsa.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT