Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search STUDENT FINANCIAL WELLNESS Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources UPCOMING EVENTS Resources Some college students are new to the responsibility of making money and, most importantly, spending it. Student discounts can help with saving a little cash here and there, but developing plans, such as budgets and savings habits, are important steps toward financial security. TU’s Student Financial Wellness office helps students make the most of their funds, begin planning for their financial future and be informed about the risks and benefits associated with dollars and cents. Gen Zers and Millennials: Targets of Fraud By: Dr. Thamara Barthelus In today’s uncertain economy fraud is proliferating. Nefarious predators view economic crisis as an opportunity to cast their net of deception into the sea of vulnerable victims. Among those most affected are young people. Recent research indicate Gen Zers, i.e., those aged 18−24 years, have become hot targets for scams. According to the Federal Trade Commission, young people report losing money to fraud more often than adults do. While much focus has been placed on the elderly, recent data has awakened us to the reality of financial victimization of young adults. A recent study indicated that 43% of people in their 20s reported a loss to fraud, while only 15% of people in their 70s did (Witt, 2019). Although “digital natives” consider themselves tech savvy, they are more willing to share their personal information online without much hesitation. BBB’s ScamTracker Risk Report highlights the severity of this problem by revealing that 41.6% of college students suffered a financial loss when approached by scammers. So, what are the schemes and traps set by fraudsters against Gen Zers and Millennials? According to a survey conducted by FraudSmart (2019), young adults aged 18−24 were targeted in the following manner: 31% were targeted via email 26% were targeted via calls to their mobile phone 22% were targeted by a text message 12% were targeted on social media 5% had been targeted via card skimming Below are the TOP 10 scams used to defraud young adults: Social Media Phishing: Scammers send private messages posing as a trustworthy source, such as a bank or a school. The aim is to entice their victims to enter their personal or financial information in an attempt to steal their information. Gift Card Scams: The most common scam of this type involves the scammers stating that an unpaid bill is currently delinquent and must be paid over the phone or otherwise swift legal action would be taken. While some will request the funds be wired, others prefer the amount owed be placed on a gift card. The most popular cards requested are Google Play, iTunes, Amazon, and Best Buy. Some scammers are even bolder and direct their victims to a particular store near them, such as CVS, Walmart, Walgreens, or Target. Once the card is purchased, the scammer will request the gift card number and pin. After receipt, the caller accesses the funds and ends the call. Online Romance Scams: Referred to as the “419” scam, it has allowed fraudsters to acquire millions from their victims, who are typically found via dating sites and chat rooms. Once they have identified a victim, they develop an emotional relationship that results in the victim sending money to the perpetrator in order to pay expenses for him to visit the victim. Although the funds are sent, the visit never takes place. The perpetrator gives some plausible explanation for the failed trip and continues requesting funds until the victim is broke. Realizing this, the fraudster moves on to his next victim. Scholarship & Grant Scam: The growing number of students pursuing higher education has created new scamming opportunities for fraudsters who create fake scholarships and request personal and financial information, resulting in identity fraud. Some sites also request a processing fee. Fake Sweepstakes & Contests: Under this scheme, scammers convince their victims that they are winners of a contest/sweepstakes. They are then required to pay certain amount to receive the prize or provide personal information. Instant Cash Schemes: Get-rich-quick schemes are proliferating on SnapChat, Instagram, Facebook, and other social media platforms. They appear as pop-ups. Once clicked, the perpetrators convince the individual to enter his/her banking information, allowing them to withdraw funds from the victim’s account. Online Shopping Scams: When using this scheme, fraudsters create a phony online store with popular brand products sold at discount. After purchasing, the victim either receives a low-quality product or nothing at all. Employment Schemes: Fraudsters are increasingly advertising “work-at-home” employment opportunities on social media platforms such as Craigslist and Facebook, targeting college students and graduates in need of extra cash. Such jobs are presented as an opportunity of a lifetime, urging the victim to act fast to secure the position, usually by paying an upfront fee and/or providing personal and banking information. Once received, scammers are able use the victim’s information to commit identity fraud. The Better Business Bureau (BBB) has identified 10 ways to recognize a job scam. To find a legitimate job: Use reputable websites Stick to jobs you have researched and have applied for Research the legitimacy of each business through the Better Business Bureau’s website bbb.org Fake Checks: While there are several variations to this scam, the most common target college students looking for a roommate or seeking employment. In the case of the college roommate, a security deposit will be mailed for greater than the amount required. The victim is asked to deposit the check and send the remaining amount to the prospective renter. Unfortunately, after withdrawing the funds, the check is returned by the bank as invalid. The same concept applies for employment. The victim is mailed a paycheck or payment for purchasing supplies. Again, the check is an overpayment for which the scammer requests the difference. This often leaves the victim with an overdrawn account. COVID-19 Phishing Scam: The goal here is to steal student identity by sending an email from the university’s “financial department” regarding an economic stimulus check. To obtain funds, the student is asked to enter personal information, which will result in identity theft. How to Avoid Scams Keep Personal Information Safe: Avoid giving a caller or a company you are not familiar with your personal information. If the caller claims to represent a particular company, research the company and call the number linked to the company, not the one provided to you by the caller. Avoid Paying Unfamiliar Debt Upon Request: If you are not familiar with a bill, do not let scammers force you into believing it exists. A major red flag is the threat of immediate legal action if the debt is not paid that instant. Do not allow yourself to be bullied by scammers. Hide Your Passwords: Do not share your password with anyone. Avoid Providing Passwords: Legitimate companies will never ask for your password. This includes tech support. If you receive an email with a link requesting your personal information or password, consider that a red flag. Do Your Research: Look for online reviews of companies you are unfamiliar with. This can be done by entering the company’s name in the Better Business Bureau (BBB) website at bbb.org. You can also search the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) site for scam alerts. What to do If You’re a Victim of Fraud Many victims of fraud do not report scams or identity theft due to embarrassment. Always remember, fraudsters are very savvy. They continuously develop new methods of scamming honest people out of their hard-earned dollars. Even the most knowledgeable and well-informed individuals can become victims. If you find yourself in this frustrating dilemma, there are steps to take to ensure that you do not become a victim twice. File a Police Report: Since fraud is a crime, it must be filed with law enforcement. Once filed, keep a copy of the police report. You will need the case number when contacting the credit bureaus. Contact Your Financial Institution: Notify your bank that you are victim of fraud. An alert will be placed on your account. You may be asked to verify the last cleared and pending transactions made by you. Contact Credit Card Companies: As federal law limits your responsibility for fraudulent transactions, reporting the loss as soon as possible is highly recommended. If the company is notified prior to fraudulent transactions clearing your account, you will not be responsible for the transactions. Even if reported after transactions have accrued, you can only be held responsible for $50 of the charges. Notify the 3 Credit Bureaus: Request that an alert be placed on your credit report using the following links: Experian.com, www.Equifax.com, and www.TransUnion.com. File a Complaint with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC): Use the link www.Ftc.gov/complaint or call 1-877-FTC-HELP Document Your Actions: Create a file of all the correspondence you had with each entity notified. It may be valuable information needed later. Order a Copy of Your Credit Report: After placing an alert, review a copy of each credit report. Change Online Passwords & Pins: Be sure to create challenging passwords. There are products that will assist you in creating passwords that are difficult to hack. Where to Report Scams To report scams, start with the Consumer Protection Office in your state. Once the federal government has become aware, it will begin tracking fraud patterns and notify the public. Specific scams can be reported to the following agencies. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Fake Checks Computer Scams Scholarship/Student Loan Sweepstakes Phone Calls Emails Imposter Scams Website: FTC Complaint | Phone: 1-877-382-4357 IRS Scams Robocalls Threats of Arrest or Lawsuits Demands for Payment Website: Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) | Phone: 1-800-366-4484 Social Security Scams Suspension of your social security number Cancellation of your social security benefits Website: Inspector General | Phone: 800-269-0271 References Baxter, L. (2017, July 27), Who is most susceptible to scams? Retrieved from https://www.rbs.com/rbs/news/2017/07/guest-blog–who-is-most-susceptible-to-scams-.html Beware the fake check scam targeting college students. (2020, February, 4.). Retrieved from https://directionscu.org/2020/02/04/beware-the-fake-check-scam-targeting-college-students/ Bryne, H. (2019, July 5). Half of young adults are targeted by fraud scams each month. Retrieved from https://spunout.ie/news/article/half-of-young-adults-are-targeted-by-fraud-scams-each-month Witt, P. (2019, February, 28). The top frauds of 2018. Retrieved from https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/blog/2019/02/top-frauds-2018 The Fundamentals of Credit CashCourse CashCourse is your guide to making informed financial choices. Register for a free account to find your assignments and other financial tools and start taking charge of your money. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT