Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Counseling and Psychological Services / CAPS Services CAPS Services COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources UPCOMING EVENTS The Counseling and Psychological Services Center (CAPS) offers clinical services to all students and a broad range of professional, educational and consultative services to faculty and staff. We are trained to help college students adjust to the changes and transitions of college life as well as to help faculty and staff function more effectively in their roles. Looking to access services? Get in touch with us in one of three ways: Call 918-631-2200 during normal business hours Monday-Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Email caps@utulsa.edu Fill out an Appointment Request Form here. (Request form available Monday-Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) If this is an emergency please call 911 or Campus Security at 918-631-5555. CAPS Referral Services a What if I need help finding resources off campus? Our consultation clinicians would love to help you find care in the Tulsa metro or your area that fits your goals, needs, and resources. When you complete your appointment request form, just check “seeking a referral” or to look on your own, visit MiResource for a network of providers hand-picked by CAPS. a What if I need help finding resources on campus? It can sometimes be overwhelming to navigate all of the great student services provided at TU. We would be happy to meet with you to give you direction on which student services match your interests and needs (e.g. advocacy, accommodations, health and wellness, community connection, etc.) and provide first steps to connect with those services at one of our consultation appointments. a What if I want long-term services? Many students would like to find a therapist that they can connect with throughout their entire college experience. Our clinic utilizes a brief model of treatment where the average number of sessions is 6 and as a training clinic, we also have different trainees providing care each semester or year in addition to our permanent staff. So, if you are looking for long-term services, often a referral to a community provider is the best fit. Let us know this preference at your consultation and we would be happy to get you connected to one. a What if I need or want a higher level of care? Based on our clinic’s treatment model and our mission to provide high quality services to as much of the TU community as possible, students needing a higher level of care (such as multiple sessions per week) may need a referral to a community provider. Our consultation clinicians can help match your specific needs and goals to the best plan of care for you! a What if I want specialized help for something specific like disordered eating, autism spectrum disorders, or domestic violence? While our clinicians have focused training in a variety of student concerns, we also maintain referral resources for specialized care in our local community. At a consultation appointment we will match your needs and resources (such as insurance) to the best fit of services at TU or in our community. CAPS Immediate Access Services and Resources a My schedule is crazy and I need help that I can fit in when I have a few minutes to spare- can CAPS help? We know our students are active in the community and stay busy, so we have created on-demand workshops that you can access any time and work through at your own pace. Also check out our self-help toolbox for hand-picked recommendations on mental health and wellness apps and videos. a Are there services I can get right away without a consultation? Definitely. All of our clinical services require an initial consultation appointment; however, we have several immediate access services such as on-demand webinars for mental well-being and skill building and a full online self-help toolbox. a I don’t really want therapy but I could use some help with building skills- can CAPS help? Students wanting non-therapeutic coaching can reach out to our Outreach Specialist to schedule a one-on-one session focused on building coping skills and healthy habits. a Is there a place I can go to find self-help resources? Yes! Check out our Self-Help Toolkit here. a What if I want help getting training, resources or information to my group, student organization or department? Please email us at caps@utulsa.edu. CAPS Consultation Services a I have scheduled an appointment with CAPS. What do I need to do now? 1. If you are accessing Microsoft Teams using a computer, please skip to step 2. All other devices (tablets, phones etc.) will need to download the Microsoft Teams App from the QR codes below. 2. At least 15 minutes prior to your appointment, check your email for an invitation from your therapist. In the email, click on the Qualtrics survey link. Please complete all forms that appear prior to your session. 3. Go back to the CAPS email and click the link “Join Microsoft Teams Meeting”. Clicking this link will automatically launch the Teams app and start your session. 4. If you have downloaded the app: prior to joining the meeting, Teams will ask you to “Join as guest” or “Sign in and join.” You may choose either option. If you choose to sign in, use your TU ID and password. If you have not downloaded the app and you are on your desktop then it will ask you to log on via the web. 5. After joining the meeting, Teams will prompt you to enter your name. Enter your preferred name and you will be entered into a virtual waiting room. When your therapist is ready they will begin the session. Make sure you give Teams permission to access your camera and microphone so that you can interact with your therapist (see screen capture below). 6. In order to leave your therapy session, click the red “hang up” button. * If you accidentally leave the session or get disconnected, the next screen will prompt you to “Rejoin” the meeting (see screen capture below) or you can re-enter the session using the appointment email. 7. Using Teams for therapy will not save your information and will not affect any other aspect of Teams that you may use for personal or other purposes. a What is a CAPS consultation? This is a brief, virtual meeting with one of our clinicians where the goal is to help determine the best fit between a student’s needs and available CAPS and community resources and to arrive at a plan for your care. a What will happen at a consultation? Just before the session you will complete a few online forms to give us some information about yourself. During your appointment your clinician will ask you questions to get a feel for what your needs, goals and resources are and will talk with you about treatment options. Your clinician may provide skills or resources that you can use right away. a What if I just want to meet with a therapist once? We offer single-session consultations- these are great if you have a specific situation to work through, need a sounding board for a big decision or need some supported self-help. No commitment is needed, just help when you need it. a What if I want help off-campus or in my community? Our consultation clinicians would love to help you find care in the Tulsa metro or your area that fits your goals, needs, and resources. When you complete your appointment request form, just check “seeking a referral” or to look on your own, visit MiResource for a network of providers hand-picked by CAPS. CAPS Clinical Services a What clinical services do you offer? The most intensive services we offer are individual, couples, and group therapy. a Who can be seen at CAPS? Any student enrolled at TU. a What kind of therapy do you provide? Generally speaking, we utilize a brief model of treatment where the average number of sessions is 6. Our clinicians are trained in a variety of evidence-based treatment models, such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Relational-Cultural Therapy, Cognitive Processing Therapy, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, and many others. If you have preferences for the therapeutic approach, please let us know at your consultation so that we can match you with the best provider. a How often will I have counseling? If CAPS counseling is recommended after your consultation, your assigned therapist will create an individualized treatment plan with you to determine the frequency of your sessions. The most common frequencies are weekly, biweekly, and monthly, depending on your clinical needs. a Does CAPS offer psychological assessments? We typically do provide individualized psychological assessments for a variety of student needs; however, due to COVID-19, we are only providing virtual services this semester and are not able to provide psychological assessments in this format. If you are in need of a psychological assessment this semester, we would be happy to work to connect you with a community provider that can meet your needs- schedule a consultation and we’ll get started! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT