Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Study Abroad Financial Aid FINANCIAL AID Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid If I study abroad, what will happen to my Financial Aid? You will need to contact the Center for Global Education (CGE) Office to inform them of your interest in a study abroad program. You will need to speak with your academic advisor well in advance of your intent to study abroad to ensure the study abroad courses and credits are approved for your academic program. Enrollment in a study abroad program/visiting student program, approved for credit by TU, will have enrollment at TU for purposes of applying for federal financial aid. TU will be considered the home school and will be responsible for processing federal financial aid. After a decision has been made on your study abroad program, you and a staff member from the CGE office will complete a CGE Study Abroad Budget Form. The form will be electronically submitted to Student Financial Services from the CGE Office. The CGE Study Abroad Budget Form is only beneficial for federal student loan and private loan eligibility. Financial aid and scholarships can only be applied to a study abroad semester(s) for a student who is seeking their first degree. TU scholarships are not available for a summer semester. Note: If the student will be applying for Tuition Benefit, only one semester of a study abroad program is covered by Tuition Benefit. TU faculty led programs are not covered by Tuition Benefit. For all study abroad students, your next semester’s federal financial aid will not be released until the grades from the study abroad program are received and posted to the student’s TU academic transcript. TU reviews the student’s Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) every semester which is why study abroad grades must be posted to the student’s TU academic transcript before federal financial aid can be released. This is an effort to remain in compliance with regulations associated with federal financial aid (see Satisfactory Academic Progress below). Study Abroad/Visiting Student Form As stated above, in addition to the CGE Study Abroad Budget Form, you will complete a Study Abroad/Visiting Student Form online by clicking on the following link: 2021-22 Study Abroad/Visiting Student Electronic Form The CGE Office will send Student Financial Services a list of all students who plan to Study Abroad within two weeks of the start of the classes. You must have a FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) on file to be considered for Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans and a Direct Parent PLUS Loan. You must also be in good standing and making Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) at the time of your study abroad application and before receiving federal financial aid (see Satisfactory Academic Progress below). After your CGE Study Abroad Budget Form is electronically submitted by CGE to Student Financial Services, the form will be reviewed by your dedicated Financial Aid Counselor. If your total study abroad expenses exceed or are less than your TU Cost of Attendance (COA or budget) for the semester you plan to study abroad, those total expenses will replace the TU COA (or budget). An increase in expenses increases the COA, which may increase your eligibility for federal student loans, if you have not been awarded the maximum amounts. If you have been awarded the maximum amounts on Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, a Direct Parent PLUS Loan and/or private loan would be the only alternative for funding. Should your financial aid award be revised, you will be notified through your TU email account. After your financial aid has been awarded and you are ready to go study abroad, the CGE Office will contact the Bursar’s Office regarding the release of your funds to pay for your living expenses abroad. The Bursar’s Office can address any questions or concerns you may have regarding your balance and the refund process (i.e., how to set up direct deposit). To know when to expect your loan money to apply to your student Bursar account balance, refer to the below Loan Disbursement Information. While you are abroad, you should maintain a full time status; otherwise, you will have received funding you were not eligible to receive. If this scenario happens, you could lose some of your funding, and it could result in you owing money to TU. If you have questions or concerns about your federal financial aid and/or the required forms for study abroad, contact your dedicated Financial Aid Counselor or the Student Financial Services office. Study Abroad Budget Form The Center for Global Education (CGE) Study Abroad Budget form will be completed with a CGE staff member and submitted to Student Financial Services. The student’s Financial Aid Counselor will review the CGE budget form and award the study abroad student. The CGE Study Abroad Budget Form will not increase your scholarship funding. As a general rule, the scholarship, grant and loan funding you receive to attend TU will also apply to study abroad expenses. TU scholarships are not available for a summer semester. If you will be applying for Tuition Benefit, only one term of a study abroad program is covered by Tuition Benefit. TU faculty led programs are not covered by Tuition Benefit. If you are awarded Federal Work Study (FWS) in your initial financial aid award and you plan to study abroad one of those semesters, you will need to accept the FWS for the semester you will not study abroad. FWS is awarded on a first-come, first-serve basis and if you decline FWS for the year, there is a good chance you will not get it back. If you plan to study abroad for the Fall, you will cancel the Fall, but accept the Spring award and vice-versa. Satisfactory Academic Progress Due to federal regulations, all federal financial aid recipients receiving Pell Grant, SEOG, Federal Work Study, Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, and Direct Parent PLUS Loans must be reviewed at the end of each semester to ensure they are making Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP). Grades from the semester you went study abroad must be posted to your TU academic transcript, so that Student Financial Services can review for SAP. For example, if you went study abroad for the Fall semester, Student Financial Services cannot release your federal financial aid for the Spring semester until your Fall study abroad grades are posted to your TU academic transcript. Loan Disbursement Federal loan funds may be released no earlier than 10 calendar days prior to the first day of class based on a statement from the student’s study abroad program director confirming the student’s first day of class and; full-time enrollment in the program. If applicable, all federal loan funds will be disbursed in one disbursement, if the student’s study abroad program is for one semester. However, if the student chooses to study abroad for a full academic year (Fall-Spring), the student will receive one disbursement per semester. Later, when the student’s Enrollment Verification Form (EVF) is sent to TU, the Registrar’s Office confirms the student’s full-time enrollment status. Should the student be enrolled less than full time, the federal financial aid is cancelled, and the student is responsible for the difference to the study abroad program. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT