Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Security / Campus Safety Measures Campus Safety Measures CAMPUS SECURITY Safety Measures Severe Storms & Tornadoes SafeZone App Services Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Anonymous Reporting Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) REPORT SEXUAL ASSAULT NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE Our security force conducts routine patrols to enhance the safety of our campus by deterring crime before it happens. Security officers work closely with the Tulsa Police Department in preventing crime in our surrounding neighborhood and, when necessary, making arrests and investigating crimes. All members of the TU campus community are responsible for making TU a better, safer place. Faculty, students and staff can report hazards and request services or repairs by calling The Department of Campus Security at 918-631-5555. Members of the university community are encouraged to call immediately if there is a question of suspicious persons or behavior. Students, faculty and staff can assume responsibility for their own personal safety and the security of their belongings by following these simple, common sense precautions. Use the safety escort service when moving about campus at night. Lock room doors when unoccupied. Do not leave purses, wallets, credit cards or identification cards (including campus ID and driver’s license) unattended. Place bicycles in racks, and secure them with sturdy cables and locks. Record serial numbers, when available, and store them separately. Lock vehicles at all times, and remove valuable items. Report any unusual activity, suspicious individuals, or malfunctioning equipment to residence life staff and/or security. In the event of a weather alert, act responsibly and take cover as needed. Observe all campus rules and regulations. Emergency Notification System The University of Tulsa has an emergency notification system that allows it to communicate with students, faculty and staff in a matter of minutes by telephone, email and text messaging. Campus Security believes continuous and rapid notification is one of the best methods of protection for members of the campus community. Situations can change rapidly and in unexpected ways. The ability to communicate up-to-date information is very important and helps prevent panic fueled by rumors and misinformation. The success of TU’s emergency notification system depends upon accurate and current contact information supplied and updated by students, faculty and staff. Any contact information provided for the purpose of the emergency notification system is securely stored and used only in emergency situations. Text Messages In the event of a major life safety or public health emergency on campus, TU will notify and advise students, faculty and staff via its TU Alert text messaging service, a key component of the university’s emergency notification program. Accurate contact information is required to ensure the effectiveness of emergency text messages. Members of the campus community are strongly encouraged to enroll in the program by providing their cell phone number and updating their subscription annually. University Emails TU may send high alert emails to the entire campus community providing emergency notifications and instructions. Social Media Campus Security will utilize Facebook, Twitter and other social media outlets when necessary to provide updates on campus updates and emergencies. SafeZone Mobile Application SafeZone SafeZone is a smart phone app that will connect you directly to TU Campus Security should you need our assistance or emergency support while you are on campus. Learn more or Download the SafeZone app Access to Campus Facilities Instructional and administrative facilities are open to the public year-round during business hours, but Campus Security is called upon to allow access to some campus facilities when they are closed to the public. TU does not authorize access without the approval of Campus Security as verified by a person with legitimate control of the facility. Missing Student Notification In compliance with the Missing Student Notification Policy and Procedures 20 USC 1092 C; (Section 488 of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008), it is the policy of the Department of Campus Security and Housing and Residence Life to actively investigate any report of a missing student who is enrolled at TU as either a full- or part-time student. Each resident will be notified of the missing students’ policy and procedures in the event they are reported missing. Each resident upon checking into their assigned room is requested via the Resident Student Check-In Card (RSCC) to identify the name and contact number of the individual(s) to be contacted in case of an emergency, including identifying a separate contact person (if desired) in the event the resident is reported missing for a period of no more than 24 hours, if the student has been determined missing by the Office of Campus Security or local law enforcement. For any resident under the age of 18, and not an emancipated individual, the institution is required to notify a custodial parent or guardian no later than 24 hours after the time the resident is determined to be missing by the Office of Campus Security and university staff. Emergency contact information will be kept confidential and accessible only to authorized campus officials and will not be disclosed, except to law enforcement to further the missing person investigation. If a member of the TU community has reason to believe that any student is missing, all efforts will be made immediately (no waiting period) to locate the student to determine his or her state of health and wellbeing. These efforts include, but are not limited to: checking the resident’s room, classes via their schedule, friends, ID card access, contacting other important offices (Student Affairs, Student Services), locating the resident’s vehicle and calling cell phone numbers. If upon investigation by the Office of Campus Security and Housing and Residence Life staff the resident is determined missing for at least 24 hours, the Dean of Students will contact the resident’s designated emergency contact or custodial parent or legal guardian immediately. This action is justified if the student is under the age of 18 or has failed to designate an emergency contact. Any missing student report must be referred immediately to TU’s Campus Security. Campus Security will continue to investigate in collaboration with staff from Student Affairs and Housing and Residence Life. Campus Security will also coordinate its efforts with outside law enforcement agencies in full compliance with legal obligations and good faith practice. Regardless of whether the student has identified a contact person, is above the age of 18, or is an emancipated minor, Campus Security will notify local law enforcement within 24 hours of the determination that the student is missing, unless local law enforcement was the entity that made the determination that the student is missing. When a University student is thought to be missing from the campus, campus officials (Dean of Students, Campus Security) should be promptly notified. All potential missing student reports will be referred to local police for investigation. A person also may be suspected of being missing if an inquiry about that individual comes to the t to a university official or campus security authority from a parent, legal guardian, law enforcement agency or staff member who has been unable to contact the student or verify the student’s presence on campus by email or phone call. Reporting a Missing Student To report a suspected missing student, immediately contact Campus Security, 918-631-5555, located in Mabee Gym 3115 E. 8th St., Tulsa OK. Campus Security will contact the offices of Student Affairs, Housing and Residence Life Staff and Tulsa Police to coordinate the search effort. All students and university employees must obtain an official identification card from Parking and Card Services. The TU ID Card must be carried at all times when on campus and presented to university officials upon request. Anyone who fails or refuses to show their card may be asked to leave the campus. While this requirement may seem restrictive, it is designed to serve the needs of all members of the campus community. TU ID Cards are required for admission to the University libraries, computer labs, fitness center and residence halls, for access to many campus activities, and for check cashing identification at the business office. Buildings and Grounds The Facilities Management staff maintains the university buildings and grounds with a concern for safety and security. They inspect campus facilities regularly and respond to reports of potential safety and security hazards such as broken windows and locks. The Facilities Management staff makes sure the campus is well-lit, and additional lighting is installed as needed. All campus buildings, grounds and properties are routinely inspected by Security officers and Facilities Management employees to ensure that all lights are functioning. Safety Awareness Programs Each year The Office of Student Affairs, Resident Life, sponsored by the Resident Life staff and by other University organizations and Campus Security hold sessions each year on topics including personal safety awareness, rape prevention, and the prevention of burglary and vandalism. Information on safety and security is provided to students and employees at orientation, seminars, through the student newspaper, crime alert bulletins, and the campus television station. Please call 918-631-5555 for more information on these programs. Violent Critical Incident Training Campus Security officers are available to provide violent critical incident training on how to prepare the campus community in case of active violence on campus. If a student group wants to set up training, it can send a request and it will be contacted to set up a time and location. Crime Prevention Specialist A Campus Security Crime Prevention Specialist is available to address departmental, group or other on-campus security information needs. These include assistance in security planning and programming as well as risk or security analyses of specific facilities or operations. Our Crime Prevention Specialist can be contacted at 918-631-5555. Blue Phones The Blue Light Telephone System increases safety and prevents crime by enabling people to reach Campus Security quickly from multiple locations around campus. The phones are located and marked by signs and by distinctive blue lights, so they are visible 24 hours a day. Campus Security can identify the caller’s location immediately and dispatch an officer to that location. The blue-light phones are located in parking lots, on walkways, along roadways, outside classroom buildings and residence halls, and inside certain buildings. Emergency Phones Emergency phone are similar to blue light phones, except for location. Emergency phones are located indoors and are located in buildings around the campus, and in elevators. TU TV/Campus Monitors TU can override its campus cable system, to provide emergency notification in university buildings and residential housing. Campus Security Website TU will provide emergency updates on its Campus Security website as they become available. Students, faculty, staff and parents can access the site at https://www.utulsa.edu/security. Monitoring Off-Campus Crime The Department of Campus Security maintains liaison with Federal, State and Local law enforcement agencies who keep the university well informed of off-campus crimes, crime trends and situations that may impact the safety of the campus community. Campus Security also works closely with the City of Tulsa Police Department in preventing crime in our surrounding neighborhood and, when necessary, making arrests and investigating crimes. Sex Offender Registration Students or employees who are required to register as sex offenders or violent offenders must promptly register in person with The Department of Campus Security as well as any other required authorities. Failure to promptly register is a felony. Only offenders convicted after November 1999 will be included in the sex offender registries. For more information, please contact Campus Security at 918-631-5555. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT