Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Current Students / Pricing Policy for 2022 Summer Classes Pricing Policy for 2022 Summer Classes Questions Do you have questions about eligibility?* Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Research shows that college students who complete 15 credits per semester during the first two years of studies are more likely to graduate with a baccalaureate degree in four to six years than students who do not. In order to graduate in four years, a student needs to complete at least 30 credits by the end of their second semester, 60 credits by the end of their fourth semester, etc. Challenges occur that can make it difficult to achieve these crucial 30-credit-hour milestones every year. TU’s summer pricing policy is designed to help students persist to the point of graduation. This is accomplished by providing zero tuition pricing for qualifying first- and second-year students. Zero Tuition Summer Pricing Policy Please note: Zero tuition credits used to enroll in a course cannot be reassigned once a course begins. Students who drop a zero-tuition course after it begins (i.e., after day 1 of the course) are considered to have used those zero tuition credit hours Criteria for qualification in the program A student must meet both of the following criteria in order to qualify for the Zero Tuition Summer Pricing Policy. A qualifying student: Entered TU as a first-time undergraduate freshman (i.e., non-transfer) in either Fall 2020 or Fall 2021. Remained enrolled full-time (i.e. in at least 12 credits) through the end of the third week of classes during all fall and spring semesters at TU. Calculation used to determine the eligible credit hours in the program If a student meets the Criteria for Qualification in the Zero Tuition Summer Pricing Policy program, the following computation is used to determine the number of credit hours the student is eligible to take through the program during the Summer 2022 term. Eligible credit hours are based solely on credits earned at TU, including delayed proficiency credit. Credits completed through International Baccalaureate, Advanced Placement or transfer credits from another accredited institution (i.e., credits earned through concurrent enrollment while in high school) are not included in the calculations below. Fall 2021 entrants Qualifying Fall 2021 entrants will be allowed to take up to 9 credits as needed to accumulate a total of 30 TU credits based on the following computation: 30 – [TU credits completed Summer 2021 + Fall 2021 + credits enrolled spring 2022 as of 5:00p.m. on April 1, 2022 (the last day to withdraw from a class)]. Example: # eligible credits = 30 – (0 SU21 + 13 FA21 + 14 SP22) # eligible credits = 3 credits, or one course Fall 2020 entrants Qualifying Fall 2020 entrants will be allowed to take up to 9 credits as needed to accumulate a total of 60 TU credits based on the following computation: 60 – [TU credits completed Summer 2020 + Fall 2020 + Spring 2021 + Summer 2021 + Fall 2021 + credits enrolled Spring 2022 as of 5:00p.m. on April 1, 2021 (the last day to withdraw from a class)]. Example: # eligible credits = 60 – (0 SU20 + 13 FA20 + 14 SP21 + 3 SU21 + 15 FA21 + 12 SP22) # eligible credits = 3 credits, or one course Eligible credit hours are not based on the cumulative number of credit hours completed by the end of the Spring 2022 semester. Qualifying students will receive an email confirming their eligibility to participate in the program prior to summer school starting. Additional information and conditions Grades of Incomplete (I) and D will be included in the 30/60 TU credit-hour calculations. Grades of F will not be included in the calculations. Courses covered by this policy include undergraduate-level courses offered by TU (on-campus and online) taken by undergraduate students. Internships taken for credit are typically completed by upperclassmen; as such, internships will be billed at the full tuition rate, but not through the zero tuition policy. Courses not affected by this policy include postgraduate, law and study abroad. Charges for a course will not be split between zero tuition and the full tuition rate. For example, a student with 58 credits would be eligible to take a 3-hour course at zero tuition; they will not be billed for the 1-hour “overage” that extends beyond the 60 credit calculation. Academic policies apply regardless of the number of zero tuition credits for which a student may be eligible. For example, conditions of academic probation dictate the number of credits a student can take during the summer. Unused zero tuition credits are not transferable to past or future semesters and cannot be redeemed for cash or credit. Transfer students and students who start in the spring semester are not eligible for the zero tuition program. Billing E-statements are typically issued prior to the end of the spring semester, so qualifying students who enroll in Summer 2022 classes during April will receive a bill that includes summer tuition. A scholarship will be posted to the qualifying student’s account to reduce tuition charges for the courses eligible for zero tuition. E-statements will be corrected to remove eligible zero tuition charges prior to the start of the summer session. Housing charges are not included in the Zero Tuition Summer Pricing Policy. Full Tuition Summer Pricing Policy Undergraduate students who do not meet the qualifications of the zero tuition summer pricing option will be charged the full tuition summer rate. First-year and second-year students who wish to take credits in excess of those that qualify for zero tuition will be charged the full tuition summer rate. Undergraduate-level students from other colleges/universities who are taking courses during the summer to transfer to another institution will be charged the full tuition summer rate. High school students seeking college credit will be charged the full tuition summer rate. Incoming freshmen for the 2022-23 academic year who wish to take summer classes in advance of the Fall 2022 semester will be charged the full tuition summer rate. The Zero Tuition Summer Pricing policy was piloted during the 2018 summer term. Continuation of this program, or a similar program in following years, will be dependent upon numerous factors. The university does not guarantee that every course that a student may want to take will be offered. Qualifying students will receive an email confirming their eligibility to participate in the program prior to the beginning of summer school For more information about the program, please contact either Sheila Givens (sheila-givens@utulsa.edu) or Matt Haswell (matthew-haswell@utulsa.edu) after April 8, 2022. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT