Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Success Resources / Current Students Current Students STUDENT SUCCESS RESOURCES Stress Relief Time Management Notetaking Goal Setting Test Preparation Academic Strategies Study Methods Study & Learning Apps Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students International Students Veterans Non-Traditional Students Commuter Students Current Students Student resources are available to help current students reach their goals. For more assistance beyond these resources, come see us in Hardesty- Holmes Student Center! Freshmen Advising and Enrollment Center for Academic Advising Visit your Advisor before enrollment every semester to schedule classes and map a plan of study for your major/minor. Check the Academic Calendar online for enrollment dates. Academic Resources Get help early and often to ensure academic success: Center for Student Academic Success, 2nd Floor Hardesty Hall Academic Success Coaching for improvement and support Tutoring Services for specific classes Disability Services for accommodations Academic Success Workshops Writing Center, McFarlin Library 3rd floor Tutorial conferences Writing resources Personal writing projects Math Resource Center, Keplinger Hall U10 Free tutoring Foreign Language Lab, Oliphant Hall 200 Get help with other languages Meet your professors during their office hours and to ask questions about course content. Keep a copy of your syllabus for each course and follow it—this is your guide to your courses and due dates. Get Involved Career Development, Hardesty Hall 2nd floor Develop a career plan and build your resume Conduct a job search and learn how to interview Campus Recreation, Collins Fitness Center Intramural sports Fitness classes and exercise equipment Student Affairs, Hardesty Hall 3rd floor Student Association and Student Activities Leadership opportunities Student discounts True Blue Neighbors, Sharp Chapel 2nd floor Volunteer on campus and in the community Log in to the TU Portal and check the campus calendar. Know Procedures Visit the information for current students page for all the offices you should visit to set up email, buy your parking permit, search for campus jobs, buy textbooks, etc. Read the Academic Bulletin and Student Code of Conduct. Make sure you understand academic honesty rules at the collegiate level. Contact Financial Aid to see if you qualify for any aid or scholarships or have GPA requirements. Visit Housing and Dining to learn about the housing lottery, meal plan options, and rules in housing units. Pay bills at the Business Office. Stay Well and Be Safe Alexander Health Center, 5th & College Minor illnesses & injuries Women’s health services Immunizations Counseling/psychological services Campus Security, Mabee Gym Can provide escorts to car at night Sign up for emergency text message alerts Find emergency blue phones around campus Other Tips Buy a planner in the Bookstore. Learn to manage your time NOW and schedule set study time every week. You should study at least 3 hours for every hour spent in class. Learn how GPA works and determine what grades you want to make (see the FAQ’s on the CSAS page or the Calculate your GPA handout on the CSAS Student Resources page). If you work, do not work more than 20 hours per week so you have adequate time to devote to your academics. Get a campus map on the TU website. Do not miss class. Attendance is important to earning good grades and some classes have attendance policies. Your TU email is the main mode of communication on campus. Check it every day. Learn to manage your finances. Create a budget and stick to it (start with http://www.oklahomamoneymatters.org/). Eat a healthy, balanced diet; get enough sleep every night; create a daily routine that you follow; and exercise regularly. Sophomores Find Your Path Declare a major/minor. Evaluate your major and make sure it is the right fit for you. Start thinking about a future career that you will find rewarding. Know your major/minor requirements and map out your course schedule for all four years. Some classes are only offered certain semesters and you’ll need to plan for those. And make sure your classes fit your plan to graduate. Expand Your Horizons Visit the Center for Global Education and start thinking about if you’d like to study abroad. Start looking for work experience. On campus jobs can be found through Financial Aid. Get Involved Decide what activities you really want to commit to and think about future leadership roles you could take in those organizations. Build relationships with your professors by going to office hours and getting involved in your department’s initiatives and events. Think about getting a faculty mentor to help you prepare for your future career. Build Your Skills Visit Career Development for advice on building your resume and investigating career options. Look for internship or research opportunities in your field to enhance your skill set. Volunteer through True Blue Neighbors and attend a professional conference or Career Fair. Sign up to be a tutor (at CSAS) in classes in which you’ve excelled. Helping others is a great way to keep your skills fresh. Continue to Improve Start building a professional wardrobe. Hone your communication skills to set yourself apart from others. Come to the Center for Student Academic Success or attend a workshop for help refining your study skills, test taking strategies, or note-taking. Juniors Plan for the Future Now is the time to find your purpose and really hone your skills. Set up an appointment with your Advisor to talk about your future plans and options. Consider finding a faculty mentor who can help guide you. Look for opportunities to acquire the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the jobs or further education you want. Make this a priority. Be a Leader and Expand Your Horizons Start networking and building relationships that can help you in the future. Consider studying abroad to expand your horizons and set you apart by visiting the Center for Global Education. Seek out leadership opportunities in the organizations you’ve joined. If you’re not already involved in an organization, find an organization that fits your values and interests and get involved! See http://utulsa.edu/campus-life/student-activities for all the places where you can serve and lead. Invest in Professionalism Participate in the variety of career fairs TU hosts each year, where employer representatives come to campus to provide information and answer questions about their industries, organizations, and employment/internship opportunities. Do mock interviews and explore the Occupational Outlook Handbook online. Before attending a job fair, check in with Career Services to have them review your resume and help you prepare. Present a paper or poster at a conference. Explore internship opportunities and plan to intern and build your resume. Keep building your professional image and wardrobe. Get Ready During the second semester, meet with your advisor to ensure you’re on track to graduate and that you have a plan for how to meet all of your major requirements. Stay motivated—find what you love and keep your goals in mind to help you persevere. Seniors Stay on Track Meet with your advisor early in the year to do a Graduation Check and apply for graduation, making final plans for any outstanding requirements. Staying focused and motivated can be difficult as you near the next chapter of your life, but keep in mind that this year can be crucial for getting the experiences, recommendations, and grades needed to secure the job or graduate program you want. Stay calm and utilize Student Psychological Services if you feel stressed by the next phase of your life and any upcoming uncertainty. Look to the Future Begin researching the jobs or programs you want to pursue after graduation and work on building the skills and experiences necessary. Attend Career Fairs. Work with Career Services to get your resume in top shape, get interview tips and practice, look for job and internship opportunities, and know how to evaluate incoming job offers. Understand financial debt and start looking to pay it off. Make a financial plan, start a ROTH-IRA for future retirement, and budget for upcoming expenses like moving, attire, and living on your own. Build Connections Continue building relationships with your professors by going to office hours and getting involved in your department’s initiatives and events. Get involved with networking opportunities in your field or region to meet industry professionals and build up your network. This is a great way to find out more about jobs in your field, meet people who may be able to help you in your job search, and can connect you with others. Ask your professors and/or employers if they can serve as a good reference for you for job/school applications. Enjoy the Final Stretch Your time at TU is a time to grow, both academically and personally. Stay motivated and keep your goals in mind. Enjoy the time you have left and make the most of it! Keep senioritis in check and persevere! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT