Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Tutoring Services In-Person Tutoring Center Holmes Student Center (Hardesty) 1045 Mon-Fri 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Some tutors can provide in-person tutoring elsewhere at other times. Online Tutoring Hours Hours vary according to individual tutors’ schedules. Log into Starfish for scheduling details. Book a Tutor Email Us https://youtu.be/hxsSu0LB_uY TUTORING SERVICES Tutoring Application Request a Tutor For Summer 2022, limited tutoring for undergraduate courses is available both in person and online. Students can schedule tutoring appointments through the Starfish system. The tutoring format varies depending on the date & time as well as individual tutor preference. The Math Lab and Chem Assist are closed until Fall 2022. To schedule an online tutoring appointment, please log into Starfish and go to your Courses tab. If tutoring is available for a course, you will see a box for Tutoring Services beside the instructor details. Use the “Schedule Appointment” link there to set up a session. You will be prompted to provide extra details on the help you need and then will have the opportunity to select an available date, time, and tutor. You can also schedule an appointment directly with tutors or through the Tutoring Services profile page on Starfish. When scheduling, please check that the course you are needing help with is listed on the summary page before confirming (and click on “Add a Course” if it is not). If you would like to become a tutor, please complete the Tutor Application Form, and Student Success Initiatives will contact you. Tutoring Services Policies and Procedures Tutoring services at The University of Tulsa are designed to help undergraduate students build knowledge of their course material and provide guidance through the learning process. It is our mission to enhance student success and offer academic support to every student seeking tutoring. Tutoring is free and available to all TU undergraduate students. Please note that Tutoring Services does not provide support for graduate-level coursework. Students can book tutoring sessions for a wide array of courses. Individual sessions are typically one hour in length, and appointments generally must be scheduled a day or more in advance. Students seeking tutoring in a particular course that is not listed on Starfish may contact tutoring@utulsa.edu to inquire about finding a tutor. The following conditions apply to scheduled one-on-one tutoring sessions (online or in person): Cancellations or rescheduling requests must be submitted at least four hours before a scheduled session is to take place. For last-minute cancellations or no-shows, a warning for the first violation will be issued; afterwards, a fee of $25 will be posted to the student’s account. A maximum of 6 one-hour tutoring sessions per week may be scheduled at no cost. If additional tutoring sessions are needed for a given week, the student must submit a written appeal providing the reason for the request and the courses where additional support is required. Appeals must be sent to tutoring@utulsa.edu for review. Student Success Initiatives (SSI) will notify the student of the number of additional sessions they may book for the specific week concerned. If requests for additional assistance become excessive, SSI will forward the appeals to the respective department chair for which the tutoring is required along with the relevant collegiate Associate Dean. Final approval from both individuals will be required prior to the student being allowed to book the additional session(s). Students who do not adhere to the appeal procedure will incur a $5 charge for each unapproved tutoring session scheduled beyond the six allowed weekly. The Math Lab and Chem Assist services provide daily walk-in tutoring on weekdays during the school year. These online tutoring centers are staffed by trained and experienced tutors who can help any student enrolled in the core courses served. Lower-level math and chemistry course tutoring (e.g., Essentials of Algebra through Calculus II; General and Organic Chem) is available exclusively through each respective service. Students can drop in without an appointment, obtain one-on-one assistance with a specific topic or problem, even stay on and study or do homework, then continue with their day. See below for further information on these services. We are always eager to receive feedback for program improvement. Please use the links below to complete a survey about your experience using either scheduled tutoring or one of the tutoring labs (Chem Assist or the Math Lab). Questions or problems related to tutoring should be emailed to tutoring@utulsa.edu. Tutoring Session Survey Tutoring Lab Survey How to Have a Successful Tutoring Session Tutoring is most effective when students know exactly what they are using it for. It is important to enter a tutoring session with clear goals and an organized plan of what you would like to accomplish. Here are some tips on how to prepare for your session: Prepare a list of questions you want to ask Bring relevant homework assignments, notes, and course readings Highlight any areas in the material that are particularly challenging for you If you are working on a larger project, bring all related drafts – especially if they include instructor feedback Create a descending list of priorities for multiple problems or challenging concepts Deal with the most difficult (and/or important) material first Arrive early, and make sure in advance that you can access the technology when doing an online session Schedule follow-up appointments as necessary, when you know the next focus area(s) Remember that the ultimate purpose of tutoring is to make you a stronger, confident, more independent learner! Math Lab The Math Lab is an in-person, walk-in tutoring lab service operating in Keplinger 3265. In the Fall and Spring semesters, all math tutoring up through Calculus II (i.e., MATH 1043, 1143, 1163, 1243, 2014, and 2024) is provided exclusively through the Math Lab during its operating hours. Some Math Lab tutors can assist with higher-level math courses as well. Details on what additional courses each tutor can assist with are listed on the schedule (to be posted in the lab and on Harvey). If for any reason the lab service is forced to operate remotely (due to circumstances connected with individual tutors or by university mandate), the Math Lab can be accessed via Harvey. Students who are only able to make use of the service virtually can also arrange to meet with a tutor on shift during standard operating hours. Please reach out to Tutoring Services if you have difficulty doing so or wish to arrange this in advance. Spring 2022 operations ended April 27th. The Math Lab will be closed during the summer, with math tutoring available by appointment through Starfish. Chem Assist Chem Assist is an in-person tutoring lab in Keplinger M231 that primarily focuses on support for General Chemistry I and II (CHEM 1013 & 1023), as well as Organic Chemistry I and II (CHEM 3013 & 3023). In the Fall and Spring semesters, all tutoring for these core courses (and their corresponding labs) is available exclusively through Chem Assist during its operating hours. Some tutors are able to help with other, more advanced chemistry courses as well. Students do not need an appointment to use the Chem Assist service and can visit anytime during staffed hours to meet with a tutor about questions related to a course. If for any reason the lab service is forced to operate remotely (due to circumstances connected with individual tutors or by university mandate), Chem Assist can be accessed via Harvey. Students who are only able to make use of the service virtually can also arrange to meet with a tutor on shift during standard operating hours. Please reach out to Tutoring Services if you have difficulty doing so or wish to arrange this in advance. Spring 2022 operations ended April 27th. Chem Assist will be closed during the summer, with chemistry tutoring available by appointment through Starfish. Computer Science Lab The Computer Science/Computer Simulation & Gaming Tutor Lab is available to all students enrolled in a CS/CSG course and support courses. The lab is located in Rayzor Hall 2045, with online tutoring available in the CS/CSG Tutor Lab course on Harvey. Students seeking assistance with their CS and/or CSG courses can drop in anytime during operating hours. Details on the tutors working, their shifts, and the courses they specialize in will be available there. The CS/CSG has ceased its spring operations and will reopen in Fall 2022. Writing Center The Helen N. Wallace Writing Center offers one-on-one support services with writing projects to students for any class. To make an appointment or check hours, go to utulsa.mywconline.com. For more info visit the Helen N. Wallace Writing Center webpage. Accounting & CIS Support During the school year, the Accounting and Computer Information Systems department has grad assistants working in it that are able to help students with various ACCT and CIS courses. Details about available tutors and their hours will be posted in Fall 2022. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT