Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Admissions / My first semester: From terror to gratitude My first semester: From terror to gratitude December 1, 2020 By: Adrienne Sauer I arrived at The University of Tulsa on August 26 — terrified. After moving in all my stuff, rearranging my room and bidding my parents adieu, I sat in my dorm room. My head was full of questions: Will I make friends? Will my classes be hard? Will I be able to survive on my own? On top of everything, COVID-19 loomed. Would I be able to make friends with a mask on? Would my classes be hard online? Would I be able to survive on my own without getting sick? With my parents after moving into my dorm room The first few hours seemed to last for days, but the following weeks flew by. I attended orientation and made friends. I began classes and survived virtual learning. I ate actual meals, woke up before noon and did my laundry. My semester was going better than expected – it seemed almost too good to be true for college during a pandemic. Then I got a call . . . Then I got a call from the Alexander Health Center. More accurately, a text from a close friend and a call a couple of days later. I had been exposed to COVID-19. This was always a possibility in my head. There were constant reminders: wearing a mask, signs about capacity and traffic flow, limited business hours, single rooms. Although I was scared, I was prepared to quarantine; I had accepted the risk by being on campus. Quarantine came with unique challenges, but it helped me appreciate all TU has given me. Spending time with my friends at Hurricane Plaza After finding out about my exposure, I quickly signed up for a COVID-19 test for the following day. I woke up, rolled out of bed and walked in the near-freezing rain to the Lorton Performance Center (LPC). There, I received a test that I have become all too familiar with. Sitting on a bench against the large windows of the LPC, I leaned back my head and felt the swab find its way up my nose. The test did manage to draw a few tears from my eyes, but it was over before I knew it. I bundled up and trudged back through the rain to my dorm. As I sat and did homework, my stomach growled. It was time for lunch, but how was I supposed to get food without entering public spaces like the Student Union? Luckily Food Services came to the rescue. With a quick call, I was able to set up food delivery for my two weeks in quarantine. They delivered two meals a day in the lobby of my dorm, which made for the most exciting part of my day. My life in quarantine With my initial COVID-19 test complete and my food secured it was time to stay inside. I decided to stay in my dorm room to keep my suitemate company, and I did not want to risk exposing my family at home. The first day of quarantine went by fairly fast; at least I had the excitement of my initial virus test! However, the following two weeks seemed endless. My daily routine consisted of doing asynchronous classwork (in my pajamas), getting my first meal from the lobby (in my pajamas), attending my synchronous classes virtually (in my pajamas), grabbing my second meal from the lobby (in my pajamas) and watching hours of television with my suitemate (in my pajamas). Each day concluded with changing into a different pair of pajamas and falling asleep. As mundane as it felt, the only large difference in my quarantine routine from my regular one was the wardrobe. Within a couple of days, I mastered my routine. Online asynchronous classwork did take some adjusting to at the beginning of the semester, but by the time of my quarantine, I had a study plan that already worked for me. For my synchronous courses, I had no trouble switching to online-only delivery; all my courses were prepared for virtual students. School was manageable during quarantine, but I had an abundance of time to spare. Taking stock My suitemate and me It was a conflicting time. I missed socially distant picnics on the Old U and daily walks taking in the beautiful TU campus, but I somewhat enjoyed pausing life for a few weeks. After receiving the clearance call from the Alexander Health Center, I could not wait to enter the outside world. However, I was going to miss playing Just Dance with my suitemate and dressing up in various costumes just to watch TV. We had found a way to enjoy our quarantine; leaving was bittersweet. I was thankful to have spent two weeks with a good friend, and even more thankful TU had introduced us. Being stuck inside, I was able to reflect on my short time on campus. I made friends with masks on, I conquered my classes online and I was surviving on my own. But had I survived without getting sick? Lucky for me, my initial COVID-19 test came back within 24 hours and was negative. The following week, I was selected for random testing and had another negative test result. At the conclusion of my quarantine, I had to get tested a final time, resulting in another negative COVID-19 test result. I was ecstatic to find out I was in the clear, and even more excited to know I had not put anyone on campus at risk. I reentered campus with immense gratitude for what it had given me. I departed campus on Nov. 22 for the Thanksgiving break, no longer terrified of being here, but, rather, a little nervous to leave. Adrienne Sauer is a first-year student from Springfield, MO. She is majoring in arts, culture and entertainment management, with an emphasis on cultural and public administration. Adrienne enjoys thrift shopping, exploring museums and spending time with her friends. Admissions, Arts & Sciences, FYI: First-Year Intel -- The TU Freshman Blog Zone, Stories, Student Stories Alexander Health Center, COVID-19, Missouri, quarantine 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT