Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Services HQ / Housing & Dining / Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions HOUSING & DINING Current Student Housing Selection Incoming Student Housing Selection Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing & Dining Requirement Welcome to Campus Dining Residence Hall Life Apartment Life Greek Housing Accessible Campus Housing Gender Inclusive Living Living Learning Communities Below are frequently asked questions related to housing and dining selection. If you are unable to find your answer please email campusservices@utulsa.edu General Selection Questions a What are living learning communities? These common-interest living communities offer you exclusive learning opportunities with faculty and staff around shared passions to apply what you learn in-class to everyday life. Some of the dynamic co-curricular communities include: “University Honors” (Hardesty Hall and Campus apartments) for students enrolled in the TU Honors Program. “Esports & Gaming” (West Suites) offers a unique program for students interested in gaming, either as a member of university-sponsored Esports teams or as a recreational gamer. “First-Year Residential Experience” (FYRE) living-learning community, housed in Fisher South, promotes a smooth transition into college. Students can apply for a Living-Learning Community on their housing agreement, but please note that space is limited. By choosing an LLC option you will not self-select online at a later time but will receive priority placement from our office with suite/apt mate matches in the corresponding community. For more information on LLC’s, please visit the LLC website. a How do matched roommates/suitemates self-select an assignment? The roommate with the earliest start time will make the selection and choose the assignment for all matched roommates and suitemates. a What is the current student self-selection priority system? #1 Self-Selection Priority – Retaining current space Students who are eligible to retain their current space, have the highest priority to retain their current assignment. These areas are not eligible to retain their current assignment: Fisher South Hall (First-Year Residential Experience) Hardesty Hall 2nd Floor (First Year Living) Suites dedicated to Living-Learning Communities for students choosing to not continue in those communities (informed by email). #2 Self-Selection Priority – Current Apartment Resident (Switchers) All apartment residents that complete a housing and dining agreement by March 8, 2022 will select in random order within this classification order (based on annual then academic agreement): 1. Law/Grad, 2. Seniors, 3. Juniors, 4. Sophomores, 5. Freshman. #3 Self-Selection Priority – General Housing Lottery All other students that complete a housing and dining agreement by March 8, 2022 will select in random order within this classification order (based on annual then academic agreement): 1. Law/Grad, 2. Seniors, 3. Juniors, 4. Sophomores, 5. Freshman. #4 Self-Selection Priority – First come, first served All other students that complete a housing and dining agreement after March 8, 2022 and by March 29, 2022 at 11:59pm will self-select in order of application. a When can I match with a suite mate or roommate in My College Roomie? All incoming students can use My College Roomie to make friends groups and interact with other incoming students starting December 15, 2021. Once students complete a housing and dining agreement (available February 15, 2022), they are able to match as roommate/suitemates (they are the same thing in this system) with other incoming students that have a completed housing and dining agreement. a How long after my self-selection start time do I have to make my selection? Current students will continue to have access until May 1. After that time please contact campusservices@utulsa.edu Incoming students are given 7 days to make their housing selection. After the time expires, an assignment will be made automatically. Once an assignment is made, a confirmation of the assignment will be sent to the student’s utulsa email address. Housing applications submitted after July 15th will be assigned a room by Campus Services. a Will I be charged a single room rate if I chose not to have a roommate? All housing charges are based on the 2022-2023 Housing Rates. a When will I be able to purchase my parking permit? Parking permit registration will open for housing students within 24 hours of making a selection or receiving an assignment confirmation email. For commuter students, the parking timeline is TBA. a When do I need to pay the housing application fee? New students to campus housing will pay the housing application fee before they see the Housing and Dining Agreement in Housing Self-Service. Current students residing in campus housing have already paid this will not be required to pay an application fee. a When will I receive my online self-selection start time? Current Students: Current students who have submitted their Housing & Dining Agreement by March 8th will receive an email on March 11th at 5 pm with their self-selection start time. All others who submit their agreement after that date will select starting April 1st-May 1st, first come, first served. Incoming Students: The first round of self-selection start times will go out on June 1st to students who have submitted their Housing & Dining Agreements by May 31st. After that, you will receive your self-selection start time at 9:00 am on the next business day. Housing applications submitted after July 15th will be assigned a room by the Office of Housing & Dining Services. All incoming housing and dining agreements submitted on February 15th will receive the highest incoming selection priority times – this specific day of applicants will receive a random selection start time during the earliest incoming selection period. For agreements received after February 15th, all incoming students will select their assignment in the order their agreement was received. Please note, roommates will select with the start time of the earliest agreement submission. a Are Halls and Sorority houses open for Winter Break? All Halls and Sorority Row will be closed for the Winter Break period. Halls and Houses close on December 16, 2022, at 3:00 p.m. and reopen on January 6, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. a Is the $250 housing application fee refundable for new incoming students? New incoming students may withdraw their housing application and request a refund of the housing application fee by June 1, 2022. The request must be received at campusservices@utulsa.edu by June 1, 2022. After June 1, the application fee is non-refundable. a What is Study Abroad Semester Apartment Storage? Students who plan to return to the same apartment after their study abroad semester can sign up for Semester storage. Then they can leave all their belongings in the apartment and simply leave for the semester, and their roommate’s housing rate remains unchanged. A lock can be installed on the bedroom upon request for $40. a What is Gender Inclusive and Mixed Gender Housing at LaFortune House? These options allow residents the ability to share the same bedroom and a non-gender specific suite bathroom at LaFortune House regardless of sex, gender or gender identity. This means students of different sexes or genders can live together within the same residence hall suite on a designated floor/wing. If interested, these options are available through the online self-selection process. a Do I need to login to complete the housing agreement? Yes, you will need your TUnetID (ABC1234) and Password. If you don’t know your TUnetID, the IT help desk can provide it for you. Please have your Student ID (Ex. 1234567) handy and call 918-631-3500 or email help@utulsa.edu and provide your student ID number and phone number and the help desk will return your call. If you don’t know your Student ID number, please double check your admissions emails or contact your admissions counselor. a Do I need to pay my enrollment deposit before signing up for housing? Students do NOT need to pay the enrollment fee before they participate in housing selection. a What if I decide to live at home after I move in? The housing agreement is a commitment to live on campus for the entire academic year from the date it is signed and submitted. a As an incoming student I am planning on pledging a Fraternity or Sorority, what is the process of moving into the house? Because the Greek recruitment happens after everyone has moved into University Housing, please complete the housing agreement and self-selection process as described. Then once you have completed Greek recruitment, please follow this process and timeline for First-year Greek Moves. a What is TU’s Housing and Dining Requirement? Retention research shows that living on campus can greatly enhance a student’s educational experience and success. Thus, all first year student are required to live in University Residence Halls and second year students are required to live on campus and both must participate in a University-provided meal plan unless they are formally exempted to reside in the primary residence of their parent(s) or legal guardian(s) in which the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) reside full time and which is within a 20-mile radius of the campus. Students fulfill the requirement after spending two years living and dining on campus (post high school). Academic credit hours and/or class status do not exempt one from the policy. This policy applies to traditional first and second year students and international students. It also applies to transfer students who have not completed two years at another university (post high school). (Completing two (2) years of residency/dining post high school, not via earned credit hours fulfills the requirement.) Married students and students 21 years of age and older prior to the start of the license period are exempt. All first- or second-year students under 21 years of age desiring to live at home with parents/legal guardian(s) should complete a Housing Residency Exemption Form. This form should be completed in housing self-service, a parent or legal guardian’s drivers’ license or state-issued ID is required for upload. a Can incoming student and current students match as suite mate or roommate? Yes, but it requires submitting a request to campusservices@utulsa.edu. University Apartments a As an incoming freshman, can I live in an apartment with my sibling? Yes, this can be arranged. Please email your requests to campusservices@utulsa.edu and we will be happy to assist. a Are campus apartments furnished? All apartments are unfurnished. All apartments have kitchen appliances including a refrigerator, stove/oven, microwave, dishwasher, garbage disposal. All apartments have full-size laundry machines in a utility area. a Do I pay for the electric in my apartment? Yes, you must maintain an electric account for your assigned apartment for the entire housing occupancy schedule, including Summer storage. Failure to start and maintain an account will result in utility bill chargeback and additional administrative fee. Student s contact PSO directly at psoklahoma.com or 888-216-3523. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT