Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sexual Violence Prevention & Education / Getting Care / Helping a Friend Helping a Friend SEXUAL VIOLENCE PREVENTION & EDUCATION Reporting Sexual Violence Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Advocacy Alliance Campus Climate Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies & Laws Alcohol & Consent Frequently Asked Questions Having a friend, family member, or someone you care about disclose abuse to you can be very difficult. It is not always easy to know what to say or do, but this section will provide you with some general guidance. This page will also provide you with information on the immediate and long-term responses to sexual violence. The most important things you can do when a survivor discloses abuse or assault to you are to believe them and to listen to them. Most of us have been taught to learn more or question a person when they tell us a story, problem, or issue. However, in this case it is very important not to ask a lot of questions as it may seem as if you don’t believe them and may re-traumatize them if they aren’t ready to share what has happened. Never imply that the survivor of the abuse or assault could have prevented it or that s/he contributed to it in any way. Ask: “How can I help?” Support your friend in whatever way they need and in whatever way you are willing to help. By asking them what they need, you are giving them some control over a situation in which they most likely feel powerless. This also helps you to know what will be helpful to them. Say: “I believe you.” Even if you are skeptical that the assault occurred, it’s not your job to make that decision, nor is it your job to investigate what happened. Your job is to support your friend. Telling them you believe them and offering to be there with them is one of the most important things you can do. Remind yourself: “Everyone reacts differently.” Survivors of assault and abuse will all react differently, and it may not be in a way you expect. Try not to assume anything based on your friend’s behavior, as we all find ways to cope with acts of violence in different ways. If your friend seems to “be fine” that doesn’t mean they are not impacted or that the assault or abuse did not occur. Letting your friend know you’re there and willing to help, regardless of how they seem to be handling it, can help a lot. Tell them: “I’m here if you want to talk.” Let your friend know that you are there if and when they want to talk about what happened. Don’t force them to tell their story, because they may not be ready to share it. But, letting them know you’re there when they are ready can provide a lot of support and reassurance to them. Discuss: “Let’s figure out what might be helpful for you.” Talk with your friend about their options. Remember to provide the information in a way that allows them to make their own decisions. If they aren’t ready to report the abuse or to receive help, that’s their decision. Visit our resources section for a list of on campus resources and off campus resources. Offer: “Would you like me to go with you?” If you’re comfortable with it, offer to go with your friend if they decide to receive medical attention or to report their abuse or assault. If you aren’t comfortable with it, that’s okay! Remember that you can also offer to find another friend or to call DVIS for them to get them an advocate. Be patient. Everyone will recover from an assault or abuse at their own pace. Sometimes, it may seem like your friend has recovered only to show minor to severe responses to the assault sometime later. Remember to never ask a friend to “get over it” or imply that they should be “recovered by now”. Ask yourself: “Am I ok?” Helping a survivor of assault or abuse can be very difficult. Take care of yourself and consider talking to someone about your own wellbeing. The TU Counseling and Psychological Services Center is free and confidential to all students and confidential as well. Immediate and Long Term Responses to Sexual Violence Survivors of sexual violence can respond to their assault in a wide variety of ways, and it is important to remember and accept however they respond. Sexual violence trauma violates a person physically and emotionally and we will all respond differently to this. Additionally, these events are traumatic not because they are rare, but because they overwhelm the internal resources that usually give individuals a sense of control, connection, and meaning (Bryant-Davis, 2015). Responses to sexual violence can be physical, emotional, and social and can include: Shock and/or denial Intense fear, anxiety, shame, self-blame, and/or guilt Feelings of isolation, powerlessness, and/or hopelessness Anger Inability to focus, depression, flat affects (severely reduced emotional expressiveness), difficulty sleeping, increased sleeping, and/or changed sleep patterns. Intrusive memories or thoughts about the assault or assailant Inability to trust others, including family and friends, distancing self from others, decreased desire for physical intimacy/touching. Humor, delayed responses, and continued contact with the perpetrator can also be responses. Remember that everyone responds to their assault differently and will find their own ways of coping with the stress and invasion to their self. If your friend starts distancing themselves from you or becomes angry with you, check your words and actions to make sure you haven’t unintentionally victim-blamed (have any of your statements or questions implied that your friend could have prevented or avoided their assault?). If you have, apologize and offer them your support and belief. If you haven’t remember that anger and distancing are common effects of being assaulted or abused and you might be a handy target. Try not to take the anger personally and continue to be there for your friend. Even if they are angry with you, knowing there is someone there for them can help them tremendously. If you have questions about any of the material on this page, please call or email Kelsey Hancock at 918-631-2324, or kelsey-hancock@utulsa.edu. References CASA House: Centre Against Sexual Assault National Sexual Violence Resource Center (NSVRC) Orchowski, L. M., Untied, A. S., & Gidycz, C. A. (2013). Social Reactions to Disclosure of Sexual Victimization and Adjustment Among Survivors of Sexual Assault. Journal Of Interpersonal Violence, 28(10), 2005-2023. doi:10.1177/0886260512471085 Rape Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN) Thema Bryant-Davis, 2005, Thriving in the Wake of Trauma: A Multicultural Guide, Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers, 2–3. Ask Us 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT