Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Security / Crime Reports Crime Reports CAMPUS SECURITY Safety Measures Severe Storms & Tornadoes SafeZone App Services Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Anonymous Reporting Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) REPORT SEXUAL ASSAULT NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE Daily Crime Log, Fire Log and Incident Reports Daily Crime Log, Fire Log & Incident Reports Campus Security provides information on crimes, fires and incidents that occur on the Main Campus, North Campus, Oxley Health Sciences Campus and TU owned/controlled properties in accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act. The purpose of the Daily Crime and Fire Log is to record all criminal incidents, alleged criminal incidents and fire incidents that are reported to the Campus Security Department. The Daily Crime and Fire Log lists crimes, alleged crimes and fire incidents that occur on campus, areas immediately adjacent to campus, as well as off-campus Tulsa properties that support Tulsa’s educational mission. The Log provides crime and fire information on a timelier basis than the annual statistical disclosures. A list of 60 days of activity is available online or by request at the Campus Security Department, (Hurricane Athletic Building, Mabee Gym, East side, 3115 E. 8th St.). Data older than sixty days is available by making a request to Campus Security. This information will be provided within two days. Crimes may be temporarily withheld from the Daily Log under the following circumstances: The disclosure will jeopardize the confidentiality and safety of a victim or the integrity of an ongoing investigation The disclosure may cause a suspect to flee or evade The disclosure may result in the destruction of evidence The information required to be listed on the Daily Log includes: Date/Time the crime or fire was reported Date/Time Frame the crime or fire occurred. (When a crime is reported and the time of the incident is not known, the time will appear on the log as 12:00. This is a function of our software system.) General location of the crime or fire Nature of the crime Disposition of the case Annual Crime and Fire Safety Report Download the complete Annual Security Report for 2021. Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act Under the federal Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, formerly the Student Right to Know and Campus Security Act, The University of Tulsa must annually distribute statistics on the reported occurrences of offenses that occurred on campus. Read more about the Jeanne Clery Disclosure Act Clery statistics for The University of Tulsa Clery statistics for North Campus at The University of Tulsa Clery Compliance at TU Clery Compliance Committee The charge of this committee is to develop and implement policy, procedure and educational programming and support, as it pertains to the University of Tulsa’s Clery compliance. This committee strives to foster a culture of compliance through one vision for the entire University. The diversity represented through membership and participation in this committee is critical in our efforts to maintain Clery compliance. Committee meetings allow for the review of updates to laws and policies connected to the Clery Act. In addition, it also serves as a forum to gather and share data for the Annual Fire Safety and Security Report. The creation and completion of tasks put forth by this committee shows Tulsa’s diligence and continued good faith efforts to maintain compliance. Matt Warren VP Risk Management, Chief Compliance Officer Cheryl Dixon General Counsel Clayton Staton Director of Campus Security Kelsey Hancock Clery Compliance Coordinator Kathleen Smith TIX Coordinator Barbara Abercrombie VP and Chief Human Resources Officer Jennifer Airey Interim Provost Laura Semenow Director of the Center for Global Engagement Steve Ososkie Campus Security Michael McClendon Dean of Students Crista Troester Executive Senior Associate Athletic Director Melissa France Associate VP Campus Services Matt Polson Associate VP Environmental Health and Safety Campus Security Authorities Review the Campus Security Authority Policy CSA Policy Designated Campus Security Authorities should report crime using this form. Campus Security Authority (CSA) is a Clery-specific term that encompasses four groups of individuals and organizations associated with an institution. A member of a campus security department; Individuals having responsibility for campus security in some capacity, but are not members of a campus security department (e.g., an individual who is responsible for monitoring the entrance to University property); People or offices that are not members of a campus security department, but where University policy directs individuals to report criminal offenses to them or their office; or Officials having significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including but not limited to, student housing, student discipline, and campus judicial proceedings. The University designates CSAs using the criteria established in the Clery Act. Who is not a CSA? The following non-CSA positions / functions include but are not limited to: faculty member without responsibility for student and campus activity beyond the classroom; physicians/nurses in the Health Center who only provide care; clerical or administrative support staff; cafeteria staff; facilities maintenance staff; information technology staff, licensed mental health or pastoral counselors, when acting within the scope of their license or certificate; and other like functions. For questions about whether a specific position qualifies as a CSA, please e-mail the Clery Compliance Coordinator at clery@utulsa.edu or contact 918-631-2324. Fire Reports Per federal law, The University of Tulsa is required to annually disclose statistical data on all fires that occur in on-campus housing facilities. In the event of an actual fire, you should immediately call 911. To report fires that have already been extinguished, or if you find evidence of such a fire in an on-campus student housing facility, contact Campus Security at 918-631-5555. It is critical to document all reports of residential fires in the annual report. Fire Report Fire Safety Specs Sexual Violence Reporting Sexual violence, sexual harassment, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking are criminal acts that violate the standards of our community and are unacceptable at TU. Reporting acts of sexual violence allows the university to take immediate steps to investigate the incident(s) and eliminate the harassment/violence, prevent its recurrence, and provide support to the survivor. Read more about Sexual Violence Reporting 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT