Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Event Planning / Event Policies and Guidelines Event Policies and Guidelines EVENT PLANNING Event Policies and Guidelines Catering Catering Exemption Policy Self-Catering Guidelines Audio/Video Needs Room Reservations/Scheduling Decorating Guidelines Conference Services Contacts MAKE A RESERVATION CATERING EXEMPTION FORM Topics General-Guidelines Advance-Notice-Requirement Alcohol Statement Attendance Audio/Video Electrical Power Cancellations/Changes Catering/Dining Services Limited Exceptions (TU Departments & Student Orgs) Charges Confirmations Event Management Event Times Fire/Safety Codes Fund Raising/Ticket Sales, etc. Insurance Outdoor Use Policy Security Smoking Staffing Costs Storage Tentative Reservations Termination of Agreement Use of Non-building Equipment General Guidelines The reservation policies guide is written for a wide variety of users; thus, any time the phrase “sponsoring organization” is used, it means the event planner, student organization or campus department, or the responsible person making reservation arrangements as an off-campus client, alumni or as a TU member making reservations for a non-TU event. Most reservation requests for the upcoming semester will only be considered after the academic courses have been announced for that semester. Because meeting space needs to be available to a wide campus audience, recurring events (e.g., weekly meetings and events) may only be reserved for four such recurring events in advance. Additionally, events may not use the same location for more than four consecutive days. The accomplishment of the educational mission of The University of Tulsa will have first priority in all decisions concerning the use of space, indoor or outdoor. The use of any area will not be authorized if such use may disturb the conduct of university activities. Return to top menu Advance Notice Requirement Please submit reservation requests a minimum of 14 calendar days prior to the event date. Reservation requests made less than 14 calendar days out may not be guaranteed; however, every effort will be made to accommodate all events. These requests can be submitted to EventHelp@utulsa.edu for review. PLACING REQUESTS EARLY INCREASES THE CHANCES OF SECURING DESIRED EVENT DATE(S) AND LOCATION(S) AND ENABLES US TO BETTER SERVE ALL YOUR EVENT NEEDS. PLEASE HELP US HELP YOU – PLAN AHEAD. Return to top menu Alcohol Statement The University of Tulsa’s alcohol policy states: “The University of Tulsa is an educational and social community wherein its members and their guests interact in a variety of activities. It is acknowledged that at some of these activities the consumption of alcoholic beverages will occur. So that these activities can be reasonably governed and in order to promote responsible conduct with respect to alcohol consumption, specific policies have been established by the University to conform with state and local laws and in keeping with the mission of the University.” The sponsoring organization will be responsible for enforcing all TU and the building’s alcohol policies and their intent. A complete copy of the TU alcohol policy can be obtained from the Office of Student Affairs, Hardesty Hall, or found in the TU Student Handbook. All events that request to have alcoholic beverages sold or served must use Dining Services. An alcohol event registration form will also need to be completed and security will be required for the event (charges apply). All other sources of alcohol (e.g., BYOB) are not allowed. Dispensing of alcohol must end 30 minutes prior to the end of the event. Should the sponsoring organization need assistance in enforcing the alcohol policy, please contact the facility staff member on duty. They can assist in having person(s) removed from the event or to close the event if necessary. Security officers are required at events where alcohol may be consumed. Refer to the section on “Security” for further details. Persons who are visibly intoxicated or otherwise impaired will be denied admittance to the event as well as event/university property. Beer/alcohol drinking contests are not allowed in/on university grounds or at university-sponsored events off campus. All alcohol consumption must be confined to the area in which it is served (e.g., beer served in a specific area may not be taken out of that area). The responsible person/organization or officers/department will be responsible for enforcing: The Oklahoma state laws as they relate to the distribution and consumption of alcohol The University of Tulsa alcohol policy All building policies The prevention of illegal consumption of alcohol at the event. Return to top menu Attendance It is the responsibility of the sponsoring organization to inform and update the event reservation/facility staff of the number of attendees, the relationship the participants have with the university, and the nature or purpose of the event(s). Any form of misrepresentation of the above items may be cause for the termination of the reservation agreement and the loss of reservation privileges for 12 calendar months. Events at which non-TU participants may be in attendance may require prior approval from the appropriate university staff for the venue. These event(s) may be subject to security and insurance requirements. Return to top menu Audio/Video Please discuss audio/video (A/V) needs when making the room reservation request. Different needs and technical expectations may be better suited to specific facility locations, rooms, and/or a particular room configuration. A/V planning should take place before drawing and submitting the room set-up sheet as they affect the way the room should be laid out. Please provide this information at least 14 calendar days prior to the event date. Shorter notice requests cannot be guaranteed; however, every effort will be made to accommodate your need. Associated costs for attending technicians will be passed on to the sponsoring organization. Rental of equipment must be contracted by the client with the vendor. The facility staff cannot be responsible for delivery, set-up operation, strike or storage of equipment that has not been arranged with the university booking agent. Return to top menu Electrical Power If the event needs more electrical power than the usual wall outlets, please allow at least 10 business days advance notice for special electrical needs to be arranged. Facilities Management will charge for both the connection and disconnection of advanced power distribution. Return to top menu Cancellations/Changes Cancellation policies will be explained at the time of booking and on all rental agreements, depending on the location being requested. The university holds the right to postpone/cancel all events due to inclement weather or threats against the community deemed necessary by the University Risk Management team. Return to top menu Catering/Dining Services The University’s Dining Services provides food and beverage service in support of all activities on campus. Arrange catering needs with Dining Services 10 business days in advance of the event (918-631-2145). Shorter-term arrangements can be provided, but menu limitations may result due to limited availability of food items. Dining Services and the Union Event Reservation/Facility Office are two separate departments. If you need to make any changes regarding the event attendance or need to cancel an event and you have already placed the food order, please be sure to notify both departments. The university may allow certain events to bring in their own catering needs. Make sure you discuss with the Event Reservation staff and University Dining Services to determine exemption procedures. Departments and student groups desiring a catering exemption must inform the university booking agent at the time the reservation is booked. Return to top menu Limited Exceptions (TU Departments & Student Orgs) Exemptions will be granted if the scope of the catering is under $100 and if organization members are assuming the complete responsibility for purchase, set-up, service, and clean-up, as well as resultant liability responsibilities for compliance with reasonable food handling practices. A minimum $50 clean-up fee will be assessed if university staff must provide clean-up services after self-catered events. Non-TU groups must use University Dining Services for all catering needs. The university operates under an exclusive agreement with the University Dining Services department. Return to top menu Charges Chargeable items include security officers, overtime for after-hours events (i.e., after 11 p.m.), certain cleaning needs and some multimedia and A/V support. Off-campus clients, alumni and non-TU functions hosted by TU members must also submit a deposit (total room rental fee) 10 business days prior to the event date. All other chargeable items will be invoiced upon event conclusion. Return to top menu Confirmations Reservation requests are subject to availability and cannot be confirmed until all of the reservation policies and guidelines have been agreed upon by the authorized contact and the advisor/department head. The university booking agent must also have received: Copies of all reservation confirmation(s) signed by the appropriate contact (non-TU events only) Copies of all relevant setup sheets and related information at least 10 business days before the event Official start and end times of the event(s) Anticipated attendance/attendees The event may automatically be canceled if the above information is not received by the university booking agent by the fifth business day prior to the event(s). Off-campus clients, alumni and non-TU functions hosted by TU members must also submit: Deposits (total of all room rental fees) at least 10 business days before the event A certificate of insurance at least 2 weeks before the event Return to top menu Event Management All events held on university property that is hosted, sponsored or organized by a university organization are required to have the organization’s faculty advisor present at the event for the duration of the event. Off-campus organizations must also have the appropriate sponsor present. Alcohol, illegal substances, cigarettes and tobacco products, glass containers, pets or weapons may not be brought into an event. This includes any type of firearms, explosives (including fireworks), kerosene or any type of flammable fluid. All event attendees may be subject to a visual search and/or a metal detector. They may also be subject to a visual search of their handbag/backpack, etc. Persons involved in fights or other confrontations and incidents, including underage drinking or noncompliance with a university staff member, will be required to leave the facility and/or university premises immediately and will not be allowed re-admittance. In addition, the entire event may be subject to immediate termination. The university reserves the right to deny use of any facility or service at any time or to impose limits on the scope, conduct, audience size or location of any event in order to satisfy the guidelines and policies of the venue and/or the university. The Event Reservation/Facility staff may also require as a condition of use, and at the cost of the requesting party, the services of additional maintenance, custodians, technical and/or security personnel. Return to top menu Event Times Additional labor costs incurred from events running past the intended end time will be assessed to the sponsoring organization. In addition, events scheduled outside normal building hours will be assessed additional labor costs. Return to top menu Fire and Safety Codes All City of Tulsa ordinance fire and safety must be enforced at all times, especially as they relate to maximum room occupancy, electrical codes, etc. Return to top menu Fund Raising/Ticket Sales, etc. This section applies to officially recognized university groups only. All reservations/events that are designed to create income (e.g., via ticket sales, registration fees, donations, fundraising) for a TU organization/department must follow these guidelines: The funds that are collected must be used to further the purpose of the organization. All the funds that are collected must be deposited into the organization’s university account. If the above guidelines are not met, 100% of all applicable reservation (rental) fees will be assessed. Upon request from the university booking agent, the organization/department will submit full financial statements, disclosing the distribution of said funds, which relate to the events listed in the reservation agreement. Return to top menu Outdoor Use Policy Motorized vehicles must remain on paved drives. No motorized vehicles are allowed on the turf areas. You must submit a maintenance request for the area of the event to have irrigation and electrical locates done before tents or anything is staked into the ground. Please include in your request the date of installation of the equipment so we can finish the locates beforehand. No digging of any type is allowed. Open fires for cooking are not allowed, only self-contained charcoal, gas, or electric devices may be used for cooking food. The following services are available from the Physical Plant on a chargeable basis. A “Request for Service” with the appropriate account number must be submitted at least 10 working days in advance of the scheduled event to arrange for these services: Electrical power – Physical Plant needs to know what each device is that will need power. If electrical service is provided by the Physical Plant, a Physical Plant Electrician is required to be present during the activity or event. If the event is held during non-working hours (evenings, weekends, or holidays) the user will be charged overtime hourly wage rates (time and one-half) for the Electrician. Water – Physical Plant needs to know what you will need water for and where it will be located in the space you have reserved. Setup Stage. We have 24 sections that are 4′ x 8′ and are 36″” tall. Please state in the request how you want it setup, how big you need it, and where exactly you want it setup in the area you have reserved. Setup Tables & Chairs (Physical Plant only has a limited amount). Special Services/Custodial Services – Hourly labor rates are charged to the user for these services during normal working hours. If any of these services are required during evening, weekend, or holiday hours, the user will be charged overtime hourly wage rates (time and one-half) for the Special Services employee(s). Trash Cans The following services are available from the Physical Plant at no charge: Need sprinklers off during event. Please submit a “”Maintenance Request”” online before the day of the event and include the time and duration of the event and where on the reserved area exactly will you need the sprinklers off. Tables & Chairs you will pickup (Physical Plant only has a limited amount) – Call the Physical Plant at 918-631-2245 and speak with Shipping & Receiving to reserve them ahead of time. The Physical Plant does not provide: Tents (Call ABCO Rents). Large Amounts of Tables & Chairs (Call ABCO Rents). Cookers. Users of the reserved areas are responsible for any and all damages and may be assessed for the following: Damages to underground utility and/or irrigation systems Damages to turf, trees, or shrubs Clean up of trash or debris left after event is over All trash and debris must be cleaned up by the user(s) within 12 hours of the conclusion of event unless arrangements have been made with the Physical Plant to provide clean-up services. Anything not cleaned up within this 12 hour period will automatically be cleaned up by the Physical Plant and the user(s) will be assessed for all charges. Excessive amounts of trash or debris will result in additional charges being assessed by the Physical Plant. All policies for the use of alcohol established by the University must be followed. A copy of these policies is available from the office of Student Affairs. The sponsoring organization agrees to abide by all policies and will assume responsibility for any and all charges that may occur as a direct or indirect result of the activity or event. Return to top menu Insurance If you or your organization/department is hosting, inviting, sponsoring or hiring a non-TU person, group, etc. to your event(s), you may be required to purchase general liability and property damage insurance certificate for up to $1 million. The certificate must also state “The University of Tulsa is named as additional insured.” Insurance certificate and/or any contracts must be received at least 2 weeks prior to the event(s), or the event is subject to cancellation. Off-campus clients must secure the insurance. Return to top menu Security The university booking agent determines the need for security presence. However, at least one officer for the first 100 people in attendance is required for all events where alcohol is present. The number of guests determines the necessity and/or the event is considered an “open event” (i.e., open to campus or public). Additionally, when such an event has more than 100 people present, an additional officer is required for each 50 people in attendance. Security needs will be arranged by the university booking agent. Sponsoring organizations are not allowed to arrange for their own security. Please provide at least 10 business days to arrange security officers. Last-minute requests cannot be guaranteed and may jeopardize the event confirmation. Officers are required to be on duty from at least 30 minutes before the scheduled event time (per the reservation confirmation) until 30 minutes after the conclusion of the event. Security costs are the responsibility of the user and will be billed at $25/hour per officer (4 hours minimum charge per officer). Return to top menu Smoking The University of Tulsa had adopted a campus-wide smoke-free policy for all indoor areas. Smoking may take place outdoors, but cannot occur within 25’ of building entrances, exits, air intakes or windows. Return to top menu Staffing Costs At least one building representative will be present at all events, from at least one hour prior to the event start time through at least 30 minutes after the conclusion of the event. More than the minimum number of personnel stated above may be needed to fully service an event. If additional personnel (e.g., temporary custodians, office staff on overtime) are required, associated labor costs will be assessed to the sponsoring organization. Labor cost will be assessed for events that extend beyond established building hours. Return to top menu Storage Storage space is not available. Decorations, equipment, etc. of any kind need to be delivered, set up, and removed within the times listed on the reservation confirmation. Return to top menu Tentative Reservations Tentative reservations will be allowed for up to two locations and two days for the same event and may be held for 10 days from the date the event was reserved. Multiple reservations for the same event will be considered tentative reservations. All tentative reservations will automatically be canceled if not confirmed 30 days prior to the event. Return to top menu Termination of Agreement Failure to comply with the policies/guidelines stated in this reservation policies guide or in the reservation confirmation may result in the termination of the event. Return to top menu Use of Non-building Equipment The university has a variety of equipment (tables, chairs, podiums, etc.) in house to meet event needs, and event planners are encouraged to use/rent the equipment. If you need to rent/procure equipment from an outside source, the delivery, set-up and removal must occur within the times listed on the event confirmation. The University Reservation/Facility staff cannot be responsible for delivery, set-up, operation, or strike of non-equipment. Storage space is not available. Decorations, rental items, equipment, and all other items brought into the venue for an event must be removed from the building within the times listed on the reservation confirmation. Any damage caused by non-building personnel (e.g., outside vendors, contractors) will be the financial responsibility of the sponsoring organization. Return to top menu Decoration Policy FLAMES The use of an open flame is determined by the university booking agent and restricted to the stationary use of candles in enclosed holders (glass/water) to be used as table decorations for dining. Each candle must be placed inside a non‐flammable container, and the flame of the lighted candle must be below the rim of the container. Flammable materials such as hay are not permitted in the building. All decoration materials must be made from non‐flammable material or treated and maintained in a flame-retardant condition by means of a flame-retarding process. TAPING & PINS No decorations can be affixed to the walls, windows, floor, doors or any surface of the facility. Decorations must be free-standing or be confined to tables assigned to the event. Duct/packing tape may not be used to affix items to carpet. LINENS Linens must be used on all banquet and food service/buffet tables. Linens can be rented from the following: Dining Services (Blue or White) 918‐631‐2145 ABCO 918‐583‐6557 Party Pro 918‐622‐8102 Plastic linens may also be used/purchased. Banquet style (60″ rounds) and serving tables (6′ long x 2.5′ wide) When removing the table linens, fold linen edges inwards (toward the center of the table); this will keep trash/food items contained and control spilling onto the carpet. FLOWERS & PLANTS Flowers and table centerpieces are welcome. Please note that flower petals may not be placed on carpet or dance floors. Plants must have a container for water drainage and must be set on plastic. CEILING DECORATIONS Fastening to any of the ceiling areas is allowed only with prior approval from the building representative. Some ceiling areas cannot be used. If permission is granted, the facility staff should do the work, if available. At least three full business days advance notice is required. A nominal fee will be applied for staff assistance. Availability depends on scheduling requirements. ADVERTISEMENTS All advertisements must be approved by the building representative before posting. Signs are not allowed to be taped, tacked, stapled, or nailed to any surface. Banners with grommets may be hung from the center railing with string or a small rope. Permission to hang decorations or banners on the railing must be approved by the university booking agent. Events that utilize lobby space may use a table provided by the facility to display event or organizational information. If you wish to provide additional signage for your event, please speak with the university booking agent. The facility has a few easels that may be used on the day of an event to display additional event information. SPRINKLED DECORATIONS All forms of confetti, glitter, birdseed, sand, rice and silly string are prohibited in all areas in and around university buildings. There might be exceptions for certain areas. BUBBLES Bubbles may not be used in the lobbies or near/on the stairs (tiled floors). BLEEDING DECORATIONS Decoration items that leak color when wet (e.g., crepe paper) or may cause discoloration of furniture, walls or floor surfaces are not allowed. BALLOONS Helium balloons are allowed in the building if they are securely anchored to a stationary object and will not be given away or sold. Helium balloons may not be given out to guests on an individual basis. All balloon bouquets will need to be removed from the facility upon the conclusion of the event or deflated and placed in a garbage can. The charges incurred for the removal of any balloons left behind or that float to the ceiling will be the responsibility of the sponsoring organization. LOBBY FURNITURE AND A/V EQUIPMENT The university’s furniture and A/V equipment are in assigned positions. No furniture or decorative objects within the venue may be moved from their respective positions without permission. No furniture or equipment may be removed from the building. No additional furniture may be brought into the facility without prior approval. FIRE CODE Decorations may not block doors, fire extinguishers, sprinklers, emergency equipment signage, emergency exits or lighting systems. FOG MACHINES The use of fog machines are reviewed by university booking agent. Some buildings may not allow them. PAINTING No painting may be done in the facility or outside on the sidewalks or parking lots. DELIVERY, SET‐UP, and CLEAN‐UP Delivery, set-up, and removal of all decorations, rental items and equipment must occur within the times listed on the event reservation confirmation. All decorations must be removed immediately following the event. Storage space is not available The loading dock must be cleared of all debris. The loading dock area is for the loading and unloading of vehicles only. No parking is allowed at the loading dock once loading/unloading is complete. Not all situations will be covered in this guide. Any questions regarding the guidelines not included here can be directed to the university booking agent. DAMAGES/CLEAN‐UP & RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL CHARGES Any damages or loss that occur as a result of an event(s) or caused by anyone attending the event, including non‐university caterers, vendors, volunteers, invitees to any area of the university, including but not limited to damages to the exterior, figures, meeting rooms, furniture and equipment are the financial responsibly of the sponsoring organization. Please leave the facility as you found it. Pick up and dispose of all trash accumulated during the event. Cost incurred for excessive clean‐up will be assessed to the sponsoring organization. Decoration violations will result in a FEE assessment ($50 minimum) or the actual cost of repair if higher. Return to top menu Classroom/Lab Policies Do not unplug any computer from the wall or the tower. You will be or have been supplied with a username and password to log into the PC and network. Always remember to log out of all computers and turn off all projectors when leaving. Some rooms may not allow food/drinks. If they do, it is your responsibility to throw away and trash and leave the room clean/how you found it. These rooms are located in academic buildings, so please be courteous with noise levels while using these rooms. There are other classes and offices around you. Each classroom/building may have specific policies for their use that will be discussed before confirmation. Any equipment/technology in the classrooms is supported by the IT Help Desk. For technical support, call 918-631-3500, Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Return to top menu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT