Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / CaneCareers / Recruiting Policies & Guidelines Recruiting Policies & Guidelines CANECAREERS Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Fairs Career Labs & Events Placement Outcomes & Statistics Recruiting Policies & Guidelines Meet Our Staff Contact Us UPCOMING EVENTS CaneCareers is an active member of the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) and adheres to NACE’s Principles for Ethical Professional Practice, which provide recruitment professionals with a framework for maintaining a fair and equitable recruitment process and supports responsible decision-making by candidates. OFFER/ACCEPTANCE POLICY Extending an offer for an internship, a full-time position, or related opportunity is a serious commitment that we expect employers to honor. Rescinding offers that have been extended to The University of Tulsa students is a practice that will not be tolerated. Violation of this policy will prompt a review, and the potential termination, of the recruiting relationship. Similarly, accepting an offer for an internship, a full-time position, or a related opportunity is a major commitment and students should only accept an offer if they intend to honor it. When a student accepts an offer, they are expected to cancel all other scheduled interviews (if applicable); it is inappropriate for students to continue interviewing or applying for other opportunities once they have accepted an offer. If students are uncertain as to whether they should accept an offer, they are encouraged to consult with a CaneCareer’s Career Coach to discuss their offer and options, including requesting an offer extension. Reneging (i.e., accepting an offer, then declining it) can severely damage the student’s reputation, not only in the short-term, but also for the duration of their career. Additionally, reneging also has negative implications on the University’s relationship with the employer and can affect opportunities for future University of Tulsa students. Students who renege on an offer may have their access to Handshake suspended and they may become ineligible to participate in any University-sponsored recruiting activities (e.g., campus interviews, career fairs, networking events). If there are extenuating circumstances that may impact an offer extended (by employers) or accepted (by students), we ask that either party consult with the Assistant Director of Employer Relations before taking action. MISREPRESENTATION POLICY If any information provided in a student’s University of Tulsa Handshake account, resume, or other application materials presents inaccurate or fraudulent information, access to Handshake and/or participation in some or all of The University of Tulsa recruiting activities may be withdrawn. Students may also be subject to discipline for such misrepresentation. Examples of misrepresentation include falsifying information provided during an interview, at a recruiting event, in a written resume or cover letter, or in Handshake profiles, resume books, or uploaded resumes. Employers who believe they have encountered candidates from The University of Tulsa who have misrepresented themselves during the recruiting process should contact CaneCareers. RECRUITING ACTIVITIES POLICY To ensure the quality of our services, and to minimize risk to The University of Tulsa students, alumni, and other users of our services, CaneCareers has outlined this policy to govern all recruiting activities that occur on The University of Tulsa campus and that are sponsored by CaneCareers. The guidelines below are in accordance with, and a supplement to, the Principles for Professional Ethical Practice established by the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE). Section I: Definition of Recruiting Activities Recruiting activities include, but are not limited to, on-campus: career or internship fairs; interviews; information sessions or meetings; company presentations; information tables; presentations and guest panel discussions; postings for jobs, internships, fellowships, or post-graduate service opportunities; and other advertised opportunities communicated to students through bulletin boards, posters, mail announcements, and other campus communication methods. Section II: Communication Organizations are expected to go through CaneCareers for their recruiting purposes and refrain from contacting other University of Tulsa departments, offices, programs, faculty, staff, or students directly. This is to ensure compliance with this policy and centralize communication on-campus. Section III: Minimum Requirements CaneCareers will sponsor recruiting activities that meet the following conditions: All organizations seeking to recruit students for any activity or employment position must comply with all federal, state, and local equal employment opportunity regulations (including the ADA) and the University’s nondiscrimination policy. This requirement includes, but is not limited to, a requirement that the organizations have and enforce policies prohibiting sexual harassment. All job postings must supply the position title, description, and qualifications; a company/organization description; and appropriate application instructions. Anonymous postings will not be accepted. All organizations recruiting for employment purposes must have a public, formal website and the recruiting contacts must have an email addresses directly affiliated with the organization they are representing. Postings for internship positions must require or prefer enrollment in a bachelor’s degree program. All “for-profit” private-sector employers wishing to post an unpaid internship position must review and state in writing that they satisfy the criteria set forth by the Department of Labor Fair Labor Standards Act for unpaid internships. The following factors are reviewed to determine whether the intern is the “primary beneficiary” of the relationship: a. The extent to which the intern and the employer clearly understand that there is no expectation of compensation. Any promise of compensation, express or implied, suggest that the intern is an employee—and vice versa. b. The extent to which the internship provides training that would be similar to that which would be given in an educational environment, including the clinical and other hands-on training provided by educational institutions. c. The extent to which the internship is tied to the intern’s formal education program by integrated coursework or the receipt of academic credit. d. The extent to which the internship accommodates the interns’ academic commitments by corresponding to the academic calendar. e. The extent to which the internship’s duration is limited to the period in which the internship provides the intern with beneficial learning. f. The extent to which the intern’s work complements, rather than displaces, the work of paid employees while providing significant educational benefits to the intern. g. The extent to which the intern and the employer understand that the internship is conducted without entitlement to a paid job at the conclusion of the internship. Postings for full-time positions must require or prefer completion of a bachelor’s degree. Posting of part-time employment positions is permitted only for organizations located within the Green Country – Northeast Oklahoma area. Posting of materials or other forms of solicitation for recruiting purposes must be approved by and coordinated through CaneCareers. Section IV: Excluded Recruiting Practices CaneCareers will not sponsor recruiting activities for opportunities if: The opportunity involves on-campus solicitation including, but not limited to, the posting of materials and/or sale of products or services. The organization is sponsoring an individual to establish their own business/organization for the purpose of selling products or services, and/or recruiting other individuals to establish their own business/organization. Compensation for the opportunity is exclusively commission or fees/percentage of sales from others under their sponsorship in the organization. The job, internship, fellowship, or post-graduate opportunity requires an individual to pay a fee—either directly or through the raising of funds—to participate. The employer requires an initial payment or investment, account balance, or similar fiscal requirement, with the organization itself serving as an umbrella or parent corporation. The initial investment may include but is not limited to: requirement to attend unpaid orientation or training sessions; direct payment of a fixed fee; payment to attend orientation or training sessions; and/or the purchase, leasing, or renting of a starter kit, sales kit, or presentation supplies. The opportunity negatively affects the academic progress of a student or encourages a student to discontinue their studies. The employer fails, for any reason, to provide necessary information needed to post a job vacancy or internship opportunity (e.g., job description, qualifications, or application instructions). The employer engages in activities that violate local, state, or federal law. Upon request, the employer is unable or unwilling to provide written documentation of registration with a Better Business Bureau. Upon request, the employer refuses to provide references to vouch for their organization. Section V: Start-Ups CaneCareers has established these criteria for identifying appropriate entrepreneurial employment opportunities for promotion through its services. Start-ups must have progressed sufficiently in their business development process so that they can: 1. Provide a company name, business (non-residential) address, website and email address, and identify a principal as the key contact. 2. Verify that they are not seeking potential partners or investors. 3. Confirm that they have obtained the necessary business licenses and Tax ID’s as well as sufficient funding, including identifying their funding model and investors, if requested. 4. Offer positions for pay, not just for equity. 5. Provide clearly defined organization and position descriptions in Handshake. Those ventures who cannot meet these guidelines may re-contact CaneCareers at a later stage to discuss access to services. Section VI: Marijuana and Cannabis Industries The University of Tulsa and CaneCareers do not allow marijuana or cannabis related organizations to recruit on campus or permit positions that involve the use, production, testing, or distribution of recreational or medical marijuana to be posted in Handshake, on campus properties, or on any other University of Tulsa platform. The use, possession, and distribution of marijuana is illegal under federal law. As a recipient of federal funds, The University of Tulsa is required to comply with federal requirements, including the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989. Marijuana use, possession, and distribution are prohibited on campus and as part of university activities. Section VII: Third-Party Agencies A third-party agency or recruiter represents a candidate or an employer client, and is not the principal employing organization. This includes, but is not limited to, organizations such as contract recruiters, career development consultants, career-marketing firms, and temporary or contract agencies. CaneCareers is interested in providing all possible employment opportunities to our students. We will work with and provide services to selected third party and contract agencies and/or recruiters who agree to comply with the following policies and procedures: If requested by the University, the agency will reveal the identity of the employer being represented and the nature of the relationship between the agency and the employer, and permit CaneCareers to verify this information by contacting the client. If CaneCareers has an existing relationship with the client, we will inform the third-party agency and decline to post the position. The agency will provide a position description for valid openings. In accordance with the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the agency will release candidate information only with the written permission of the employment candidate and only to the identified employer. Section VIII: Service and Volunteer Recruiting (pre-graduation) The recruitment of current University of Tulsa students for unpaid service and/or volunteer opportunities is generally restricted to local community partners. If organizations have a need for current volunteers, they should contact True Blue Neighbors at 918-631-3535 to have an exploratory conversation. Section IX: Reporting of Data When requested, a recruiting organization may supply to CaneCareers information regarding University of Tulsa students successfully recruited. This includes students hired to fill full-time, internship, or other related positions for the organization. Information may include, but is not limited to, student name, title, position’s division or unit within the organization, geographic location of position, employment start date, or compensation. Section X: Campus Solicitation Policy External organizations are prohibited from using campus facilities or property to sell products or services, advertise for an event, advocate for a cause, solicit support for an issue, or share political materials. Section XI: Solomon Amendment The University of Tulsa welcomes military recruiters on campus. Military recruiters seeking student recruitment information should contact the Office of the Registrar. Section XII: Disclaimer The University of Tulsa’s CaneCareers reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to deny any organization or recruiter access to the services offered by CaneCareers for violations of these policies, as well as reasons including but not limited to: Any violation of state or federal laws. Misrepresentation of employer information or absence of information. Complaints by students or alumnae. Harassment of University of Tulsa students, alumnae, staff, or faculty. Requiring personal information at the time of application, such as bank and social security numbers. Fraud. Breach of confidentiality as required by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Section XIII: Policy Changes & Updates The University of Tulsa reserves the right to interpret, change, and/or update this policy without notice. EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING EXPERIENCES - ASSUMPTION OF RISK COVID-19 The guidelines in this form are intended to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission to students participating in experiential learning, given the highly contagious nature of COVID-19 and the possibility of transmission by asymptomatic individuals, the University cannot guarantee that adherence to these guidelines will entirely prevent such transmission. Every employer accepting a student for experiential learning, internship, or volunteer experience during COVID-19 where students are place will provide this document and ask them to acknowledge their responsibilities. The employer, students, and CaneCareers should all retain a signed copy of the document for their records. Experiential Learning Experiences Assumption of Risk 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT