Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Association / Government Government https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIr-1kvBy20&t=4s STUDENT ASSOCIATION About Us Government Organizations Resources Executive Elections are held in the spring. Senate elections are held in the fall and spring. The Executive Branch presides over The Student Association, acts as liaison between administration and students, and assists students with event planning, operational, and program-specific needs. Cabinet is the programming sector of Student Association. The Judicial Council is the body responsible for the interpretation and upholding of the Student Association Constitution and its Standing Rules. Student Association Senators are elected by students to represent academic colleges, residence halls, apartments, and commuters. The Senate represents your voice on campus and helps fund your organizations. Executive Branch The Executive Branch Presides over The Student Association Liaison between administration and students Assists students with event planning, operational, and program-specific needs President – Duties & Powers Appoint members to the Cabinet through campus wide application process Preside over all meetings of the Executive Committee and Cabinet, and exercise the power to call meetings and oversee the business of the Student Association; Coordinate the duties performed by the Cabinet members; Prepare the budget for the fiscal year of his or her term, and present it to the Student Senate by the first meeting of the Student Senate of the fall semester; Provide information and recommendations at the Student Senate meetings in matters concerning the student welfare and the expenditure of the budget; Oversee the execution of the statutes enacted by the Student Senate; Sign or veto bills and resolutions passed by the Student Senate within six days of passage; Recommend for removal, to the Student Senate, any person he or she has the power to appoint; the person shall be removed with a two-thirds vote of the Student Senate; Be a non-voting, ex-officio member of all boards, councils, committees, and commissions of the Student Association. Have the power to create ad hoc committees provided that he or she notify the Senate of their formation. Vice President – Duties & Powers Advise and assist the President; Serve as President of the Student Association Student Senate; Organize the composition of the Senate Standing Committees; Be a non-voting, ex-officio member of all Senate Standing Committees; Have the power to appoint members of the Student Association to vacant Senate seats. Appointments can only be made for seats corresponding to the current academic semester. All appointees are subject to Senate approval by a majority vote. Recommend for removal, to the Student Senate, any member of the Senate; the person shall be removed with a two-thirds vote of the Student Senate. Secretary – Duties & Powers Maintain all documents, records, and files of the Student Association and arrange for permanent preservation of its archives; Take minutes at all official Senate and Cabinet meetings, and send the minutes to all members of the Student Association and all appropriate University offices; Maintain accurate attendance records for the Senate and Cabinet; Be responsible for checking fulfillment of the requirements for all Senate, Cabinet, and Judicial members; Be a non-voting, ex-officio member of all the Senate Standing Committees. Oversee and continually update the online SA Calendar. Manage the online google groups for Senate and Cabinet. Treasurer – Duties & Powers Acquire and compile the reports on all appropriations and disbursements of the Student Association; Supervise the disbursement of all monies appropriated by the Student Senate; Assist the Vice President in overseeing the Organizational Strategic Plan funding process every semester; Head the Funding Review Committee Advise and assist the President in preparing the budget; Compile and maintain the account of expenditures; Compile a monthly budget statement for each Cabinet member and the Senate; Serve as an ex-officio, non-voting member of all Senate Standing Committees. Director of Cabinet Operations – Duties & Powers Hires all Cabineteers Overseesand manage all items for purchasing Oversees the cabinet budget Draftssafety plans Finalizes the event calendareach semester Oversees matricesand post-assessment forms Oversees Cabinet meetings Compilesmarketing information to send to Student Association Marcom Connects Cabineteers to other branches of SA and TU Administration Director of Student Org Outreach – Duties & Powers Coordinates and participates in outreach activities for SA chartered student organizations, provides information on SA programs and services. Conducts and facilitates the SA-Presidents council meetings. Collaborates with SOC in programming, as well as maintaining an updated list of student organizations and their contact information. Main point of contact between SA and Student Organizations. Ownershipof the SA-Presidents Council Microsoft team. Constant maintenance of the Presidents Council Microsoft team. Director of Senate Operations – Duties & Powers Head Programming Officer Oversee all Senate events in accordance with mission and goals Oversee all communication to senators Manage Senate calendar Learn and advise on all purchasing procedures Knowledge of inventory system Learn and advise on all event planning procedures First contact for support of committees Assist the Vice President Organizational Funding Process Oversee Senate’s assessment of the executive committee Communicate and meet regularly with Director of Student Activities Director of Internal Marketing – Duties & Powers Oversee and coordinate all marketing and promotions for Student Association news, events and initiatives Maintain Student Association’s technology and social media Director of Recruitment – Duties & Powers Identifies prospects for membership. Develops strategies to promote membership to prospects. Develops marketing and promotional material to attract new members in collaboration with the SA Director of Marketing. Director of Membership – Duties & Powers Conducts survey of members who do not renew to determine areas for improvement. Identifies opportunities for member engagement Develops and implements the onboarding process for new members. Serves as Chief Elections Officer: Knowledge of election code Oversee and appoint elections committee Create and share appropriate election and transition timelines Conduct candidate informational meetings Plan election events Organize election booths and maintain election software (Harvey) Assist Chief Justice in reviewing election results Assess election procedures semesterly Elections Senate elections are held in the fall and spring. Executive Elections are held in the spring. Applications are available here. Contact sa.elections@utulsa.edu. Election Results Executive Elections 2021 Certified Results Spring 2020 Senate Certified Results Spring 2020 Senate (Arts and Sciences) Certified Results Spring 2020 Confidence/No Confidence Results Fall 2019 Senate Certified Results Spring 2019 Exec Certified Results Spring 2019 Senate Certified Results Fall 2018 Senate Certified Results Spring 2018 Exec Certified Results Spring 2018 Senate Certified Results Fall 2017 Senate Certified Results Spring 2017 Exec Certified Results Spring 2017 Certified Results Fall 2016 Senate Certified Results Spring 2016 Exec Certified Results Spring 2016 Certified Results Fall 2015 Senate Elections Spring 2015 Exec Certified Results Spring 2015 Certified Senate Results Fall 2014 Certified Results Cabinet Cabinet is the governing section of Student Association that serves as the student programming board. Our programming team of Cabineteers put on free on-campus events, such as Homecoming and The International Bazaar, to help all students at TU feel a part of the TU community. Cabinet members are divided into four focus committees: Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Safety & Wellness, Community Engagement, and The Arts. Contact sa.cabinet@utulsa.edu. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Programming focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion, and intercultural experiences. Safety & Wellness Programming focused on student safety on campus, in the community, and virtually. Student health and wellness for the student’s mind, body, and soul. Community Engagement Programming focused on connecting students to the University of Tulsa community. The Arts Programming focused on the visual, literary, and performing arts. Judicial The Judicial Council is the body responsible for the interpretation and upholding of the Student Association Constitution and its Standing Rules. It also is the final arbiter in concerns involving Student Association elections. Contact sa.judicial@utulsa.edu. Chief Justice Lauren Agpoon Important Links SA Student Hub Senate Student Association Senators are elected by students to represent academic colleges, residence halls, apartments, and commuters. The Senate represents your voice on campus and helps fund your organizations. Your Senator can write legislation on a range of issues affecting student life at TU. We want to know what you would like to see done on campus! Email any general questions to the SA Vice President, sa.vp@utulsa.edu. All students are encouraged to attend an SA Senate meeting. Meetings are held on Tuesdays at 9:00pm in Helmerich Hall Room 105 or on Microsoft Teams. Resources for Student Organizations Monetary Allocations By filling out an Organization Strategic Plan (OSP), student organizations can get funding from SA for events through our allocations process. SA can help fund the cost of food, equipment, and entertainment, as well as travel, transportation, registration or conference fees, and more! If you have questions about chartering an organization, see the contact information under SOC. If you have questions about funding or the OSP process, reach out to MAC. Senate Committees Monetary Allocations Committee (MAC) The Monetary Allocations Committee collaborates with student organizational representatives throughout campus in determining the proper amount of appropriated funds necessary for the organization’s success. The MAC facilitates training to navigate the funding process, coordinates with students in developing sound fiscal strategies for events, and sponsors bills on their behalf in the senate. Questions concerning this committee will be directed to the MAC Chairperson, sa.mac@utulsa.edu. Government Operations Committee (GOC) The Government Operations Committee is responsible for updating all of SA’s governing documents, and interviewing all appointments made in order to provide recommendations to the Senate. Questions about this committee can be directed to the GOC Chair, sa.goc@utulsa.edu. University Improvements Committee (UIC) The University Improvements Committee identifies areas of campus life that could benefit from change, and writes Resolutions in order to suggest such changes to the appropriate parties. Questions about this committee, or ideas for how to improve campus, can be directed to the UIC Chair, sa.uic@utulsa.edu. Student Organization Committee (SOC) The Student Organization Committee assists new clubs in getting chartered by Student Association and experienced clubs in their programming and growth. Questions about this committee can be directed to the SOC Chair, sa.soc@utulsa.edu. Important Links SA Student Hub 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT