Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Student Life / Student Code of Conduct Student Code of Conduct STUDENT LIFE Student Handbook and Policies CaneCares Statement on Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities Student Code of Conduct Social Media Policy Disabilities Accommodation Policy & Notice of Absences Alcohol and Drug Policy Hazing Policy Weapons Policy Policy for Computer Use Digital Millennium Copyright Act Policy Intellectual Property Rights Conduct of Academic Research Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX Student Complaint Policy Respect for Religious Diversity Contact Student Life The Student Code of Conduct Policy outlines acceptable and unacceptable behavior at The University of Tulsa. The policy is effective until a revised policy has been approved. In addition to checking with the Office of Student Life for any revisions to this policy, please be aware that all higher education institutions are subject to revisions in federal law and regulations. TU acts in compliance with federal requirements as they become effective, even if not always in conformity with the university’s own statements, policies and codes as adopted and published. Under the provisions of the Student Code of Conduct, students and appropriate university staff members who believe they have been victims of, witnessed or have information about violations should submit a complaint form to initiate an appropriate investigation. The full text of the Student Code of Conduct can be found below. Have questions or concerns? Contact Scott Gove, assistant dean of student Rights & responsibilities, at scott-gove@utulsa.edu or 918-631-2386. Revision: February 21, 2022 (Addition of Care & Concern Policy) Revision: April 4, 2022 (Clarify dismissal sanction) Definitions Accused student (or Respondent) – any student accused of violating the Student Code of Conduct. Campus and campus grounds – any buildings or grounds owned, leased, operated, controlled, or supervised by the University. College – any academic division of the University. Complainant – person(s) or entity making a complaint or referral regarding a student or student group who allegedly violated policy. When a student believes that they have been a victim of another student’s misconduct, the student who believes they have been a victim will have the same rights under this Student Conduct Code as are provided to the Complainant, even if another member of the University community submitted the complaint itself. Conduct Board Chairperson – a University member trained in the conduct review process to adjudicate cases. Drugs and Paraphernalia – The University adheres to the Drug‐Free Workplace Act and the Drug‐Free Schools and Communities Act. Faculty Member – any person hired by the University to conduct classroom or teaching activities who is otherwise considered by the University to be a member of its faculty. FERPA – the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. The privacy and confidentiality of all student records shall be preserved in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 as amended. Fraternity and Sorority housing – any housing, University owned or otherwise, designated for members of fraternity and sorority chapters. Institution and University – The University of Tulsa and all its undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools and colleges, divisions, and programs. Investigation – the process of making an institutional inquiry into a claim or allegation of actions(s) which may be in violation of The Student Code of Conduct, TU policy, and/or applicable federal, state, or local law or ordinance. Such inquiry by may include, but are not be limited to: gathering information from individuals with knowledge about such claim or allegation; review of documents or other tangible information relating to the claim or allegation; review of any information already available in a public domain (i.e., postings/photographs on social media, such as Facebook, text messages, emails, webpages, and/or other social media) or other information discovered or provided that is deemed relevant to such inquiry by TU. Investigator – the person(s) who conducts the investigation of the compliant or incident. May – used in the permissive sense. Policy – the written regulations of the University as found in, but not limited to, the Student Handbook, The Policies & Procedures Handbook for School of Nursing, Sports Medicine Handbook, Student‐Athlete Handbook, Undergraduate and Graduate Bulletins, College of Law Handbook containing the Policies and Regulations and Law School Student Code of Conduct, The on‐line Guide to Living on Campus, Office of Research and Sponsored Programs: Policies, Procedures, Guidelines, or ACAC Allen Chapman Student Union Facilities booklet also may apply to you. Public place(s) – includes, but is not limited to any dining hall, lobby, hallway, lounge, study area, stairwell or restroom of on‐campus buildings, fraternity or sorority housing, or any outdoor areas on campus grounds. Recognized Organization – any organization who has been designated by the Student Association as having either a probationary, temporary or full charter. Respondent – a student or student group who has allegedly violated policy. Shall – used in the imperative sense. Students – any person for whom the University maintains educational records, as defined by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 and related regulations, and who is currently enrolled in ANY course and/or is part of a degree‐granting program even though conduct may occur before classes begin or after classes end, as well as during the academic year and during periods between terms of actual enrollment (and even if their conduct is not discovered until after a degree is awarded.) Persons who are not enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship with the University are considered students as are persons living in University housing facilities although not enrolled in the University. Student Conduct Administrator – a University official authorized on a case‐by‐case basis by the Dean of Students (or their designee) to review allegations and impose sanctions upon any Student(s)/Student Organization found to have violated the Student Code of Conduct. The Dean of Students may authorize a Student Conduct Administrator to serve simultaneously as a sole Student Conduct Administrator or as one of the members of the Student Conduct Board. The Dean of Students may authorize the same Student Conduct Administrator to impose sanctions in all cases. The Dean of Students is that person designated by the University President to be responsible for the administration of the Student Code. (A person’s status in a particular situation shall be determined by the Student Conduct Administrator.) Student Organization – an organization comprised mainly of students who are organized by the University students, recognized by the University, who have complied with the formal requirements for University recognition/registration or substantively involved in campus life/activities of the University. University – The University of Tulsa University Student Conduct Board – a pool of trained faculty, staff, and students from which a conduct hearing panel is selected. Any person or persons authorized by the Dean of Students to determine whether a student has violated the Student Conduct Code and has been deemed responsible to recommend sanctions that may be imposed when rule violations have been committed. University Community – any student, faculty, administration or staff member at the University. University Premises – all land, buildings, facilities, and other property in the possession of or owned, used, or controlled by the University (including adjacent streets and sidewalks.) General Standard of Conduct The University of Tulsa holds high expectations for student conduct. The pursuits of each student and the high ideals of the University will be served best when students interact with one another and the University in an atmosphere of mutual respect, dignity, trust, and honor. Specifically, it is incumbent upon each University of Tulsa student to: Respect order, fairness, morality, and the rights of others. Obey the laws of the land and the regulations, rules, and policies of the University. Conduct their activities with high regard for the ideals of higher education, which include personal honor, academic honesty, and intellectual freedom. Failure to fulfill these expectations will be sufficient cause for the University to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Any student found to have engaged in the following conduct will be subject to disciplinary action or involuntary withdrawal (See policy on Involuntary Withdrawal) by the University. Prohibited Conduct The list of prohibited conduct is non-exhaustive and the University reserves the right to initiate procedures for other types of student conduct deemed inappropriate. Academic Misconduct – Policies are established, published and enforced by each college and the Office of the Provost. Alcohol – Violating the University’s alcohol policy. This includes, but is not limited to, such behaviors as the manufacture, possession, purchase, distribution, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on or off campus for those under 21 years of age other than where the law provides; public intoxication of any person regardless of age on or off campus; the unlawful provision of alcohol to others; and the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages in public areas on campus, with the exception of days and locations approved by the Dean of Students for those persons 21 years of age and older. Such exceptions to the alcohol policy will be handled in accordance with the Procedures for the Sale and Service of Alcohol, which may be accessed online here. Assault/Threats of Harm – Engaging in behavior that endangers or threatens to endanger the health or safety of any person. Examples include but are not limited to fighting or assault in any form. Discrimination – Harassing any member of the community related to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status, sexual orientation, or gender identity and expression. Due to the University’s commitment to freedom of speech and expression, harassment is more than insensitivity or conduct that offends or creates an uncomfortable situation for certain members of the community. Dishonesty ‐ Acting dishonestly with the intent to mislead, defraud, or deprive University officials, hearing boards, students, faculty members, or members of the community at large of rights to information, accuracy of record, or property. Dishonesty includes, but is not limited to: the intention to produce counterfeit documents; possession of equipment with the intent to produce counterfeit documents; forgery; falsification of records; lying; falsification of checks, money orders, misuse or falsification of University documents by actions such as forgery, alteration, or improper transfer, or other financial‐related documents; unauthorized entry into University facilities; and falsification and or manipulation of computer data. Drugs and Paraphernalia – The University adheres to the Drug‐Free Workplace Act and the Drug‐Free Schools and Communities Act. The University of Tulsa prohibits employees and students from taking part in the following activities while on University premises or on University business. (Employee or student involvement in such activities is considered gross misconduct and is therefore subject to disciplinary action up to and including immediate dismissal.) Prohibited activities are as follows: Possession and/or use of any Federally Illegal Drug, or any possession or use of any prescription drug or other controlled substance except under the direction of a licensed physician. Marijuana, including Medical Marijuana, is prohibited on campus in all circumstances. Manufacture or distribution of any Federally Illegal Drug is prohibited, including Cannabis in any form. Being under the influence of any Federally Illegal Drug, prescription or non‐prescription drug, or other controlled substance to the point of endangering one’s own health or safety. Any possession or use on University Premises of paraphernalia used to facilitate the use of any Federally Illegal Drug or other controlled substance in violation of this policy. This includes but is not limited to marijuana pipes, bongs and scales or other measuring devices. Any act which causes a person to ingest any Federally Illegal Drug, prescription drug, or other controlled substance without their effective consent. Any violation of these Student Conduct Policies while under the influence of any Federally Illegal Drug, prescription drug, or other controlled substance in violation of this policy regardless of age. Endangering Health or Safety – Taking or threatening action that threatens or endangers the safety, physical or mental health, or life of any person, whether intentionally or as a result of recklessness or gross negligence. Ethics Code & Computer Use – Violating any of the University’s Ethics Code & Computer Use Policies. This includes but is not limited to transmitting unsolicited information that contains obscene, indecent, lewd, or lascivious material; using University resources for any commercial venture; or violating the Copyright law in any manner. Fire-Arson – Intentionally setting a fire in or around University property. Fire-Equipment – Tampering with or misusing fire fighting equipment, including fire suppression systems (i.e., sprinklers), call boxes, emergency exits, or warning devices, or creating any hindrance of emergency procedures that is a threat to the community. Fire-Exceeding Capacity – Having more guests in an occupied space than is safely allowed by university policy or city code. Fire-Hazard – Creating a fire-related hazard. Harassment or Threat of Harassment – Engaging in harassment, whether physical, psychological, verbal, written or digital‐based, which is beyond the bounds of protected free speech, and directed at specific individual(s), and likely to cause an immediate breach of the peace; conduct which threatens the mental health, physical health or security of any person or persons including stalking, intimidation, or threat that unreasonably impairs the security or privacy or another member of the university community. Hate Crimes – A criminal offense that manifests evidence that the victim was intentionally selected because of the perpetrator’s bias against the victim. Hazing – Any intentional, knowing, or reckless act, occurring on or off the campus of an educational institution, by one person alone or acting with others, directed against a student, that endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for the purpose of pledging, being initiated into, affiliating with, holding office in, or maintaining membership in any organization whose members are or include, students in an education institution. Such acts may include, but are not limited to, use of alcohol, and creation of excessive fatigue, paddling, punching, or kicking in any form. Identification – Possessing and/or using false identification or another person’s identification. TU IDs may not be used by anyone but the student pictured on the ID card for the use of TU facilities for the use of TU facilities. ID cards by not be altered. Likewise, personal accounts programmed onto TU ID cards are for use at the discretion of the student on campus or at authorized locations off campus, pursuant to the rules under which the accounts were formed. Interference – Interfering with or disrupting any University teaching, research, administrative, disciplinary, public service, learning, or other authorized activity. Irresponsible Conduct – Engaging in irresponsible conduct or behavior that does not model good citizenship or reflects poorly upon The University of Tulsa community. Joint Responsibility – Actions of one’s guest(s) that violate University policies, including but not limited to this Code. Murder/Non-Negligent Manslaughter/Manslaughter by Negligence – The willful (non-negligent) killing of one human being by another. Refusal to Comply – Failure to comply with legitimate directives of authorized University officials, law enforcement or emergency personnel, identified as such, in the performance of their duties, including failure to identify oneself when so requested; or violation of the terms of a disciplinary sanction. Students are expected to respond promptly to all correspondence from the University and its officials and are expected to maintain current mailing address (with the Registrar’s Office) and monitor utulsa email as the official TU correspondence. Retaliation – Any adverse action or threat taken or made against an individual, including through third parties and/or legal counsel, for making a report of a policy violation or participating in in any investigation or proceeding related to any policy. Retaliation includes threatening, intimidating, harassing, or any other conduct that would discourage a reasonable person from seeking services, receiving protective measures and accommodations, and/or reporting policy violations. Retaliation also includes maliciously and purposefully interfering with, threatening, or damaging the academic and/or professional career of another individual before, during, or after the investigation and resolution of a report of a policy violation in response to and/or on account of the report of the policy violation. (This provision applies to reports made or information provided in good faith, even if the facts alleged in the report are determined not to be accurate.) Riotous Behavior ‐ Participation in a disturbance with the purpose to commit or incite any action that presents a clear and present danger to others, causes physical harm to others, or damages property. Proscribed behavior in the context of a riot includes, but is not limited to: Knowingly engaging in conduct designed to incite another to engage in riotous behavior; and Actual or threatened damage to or destruction of University property or property of others, whether done intentionally or with reckless disregard; and Failing to comply with a directive to disperse by University officials, law enforcement, or emergency personnel; and Intimidating, impeding, hindering, or obstructing a University official, law enforcement, or emergency personnel in the performance of their duties. This rule shall not be interpreted as proscribing peaceful demonstrations, peaceful picketing, a call for a boycott, or other forms of dissent. Sexual Misconduct ‐ All forms of sex and gender-based discrimination, harassment, abuse, violence, and sexual assault (whether digital, emotional, psychological or physical in nature) as well as unwelcome sexual conduct, dating violence, domestic violence, interpersonal violence, stalking (including cyber-stalking), coercion, and exploitation. Sexual misconduct violates our institutional values and its presence in the community presents a barrier to fulfilling the University’s scholarly, research, educational, patient care, and service missions. When sexual misconduct is reported to the University, the Title IX Coordinator will determine if the alleged misconduct falls within the jurisdiction of the University of Tulsa Title IX Policy. If not, the case will be managed subject to the procedures set forth in the Student Code of Conduct. Solicitation ‐ University buildings and/or campus spaces may not be used to raise money for any individual or organization other than an officially recognized campus organization (faculty, staff, or student) or nonprofit charitable organization off campus. Organizations wishing to use University space must obtain proper approvals in order to do so. The Dean of Students must approve all off-campus solicitation. Room-to-room or apartment solicitation/non-housing flyers is not permitted under any circumstances. Immediately report any attempted solicitation to Campus Security at 918-631-5555. Posting or hanging materials on any external university structure (e.g. hallways, public facing windows, balconies, sliding doors, etc.) or on lawns, grounds or exteriors of a campus building is prohibited. Theft ‐ Attempted or actual theft or the unauthorized use/possession, and/or damage to University of Tulsa property or services or other personal or public property, on or off campus. Transit devices ‐ Improper use, possession, storage and/or charging of electronic skateboards, self-balancing boards, hoverboards, Segways, Skywalkers, motorcycles, bicycles, electric scooters, and/or similar devices. Trespassing/Unauthorized Presence ‐ Unauthorized entry into or on university property. Unlawful Entry/Attempted Forcible Entry/Forcible Entry ‐ Unlawful Entry, Attempted Forcible Entry or Forcible Entry. Vandalism/Destruction of Property – Actual or threatened damage to or destruction of University property or property of others, whether done intentionally or with reckless disregard. Violation of University Rules ‐ Violation of other published University regulations, policies or violations of federal, state, or local law. These University regulations, policies or rules include, but are not limited to, those which prohibit the misuse of computing resources, harassment, rules for student groups or organizations, and residence hall rules and regulations. Firearms, Air Rifles, Weapons, Explosives and Fireworks – Weapons of any kind: firearms, paintball guns, air rifles, ammunition, knives with blades longer than four inches, fireworks, gasoline or other explosive materials are not permitted in any University building, on the campus grounds, or in vehicles on campus (except as provided herein) unless authorized by the University President (or their designee) or as required by law.To the extent required by Oklahoma law, a lawfully possessed and stored handgun may be kept in vehicles parked in University parking spaces. Effective November 1, 2019, to the extent required by Oklahoma law, a lawfully possessed and stored firearm, machete, blackjack, loaded cane, hand chain or metal knuckles may be kept in vehicles parked in University parking spaces. Such weapons may not be removed from the vehicle. Firearms are strictly prohibited in on-campus housing. Students and employees who wish to bring firearms or other weapons to campus even for a short duration of time must immediately register them with Campus Security and turn them over for storage, unless the weapon is one permitted to be lawfully kept in a parked vehicle as provided above. The University strongly encourages storing weapons with Campus Security, rather than in parked vehicles. Violation of this policy will result in a minimum $250 fine and disciplinary action. Refer to “Concealed Weapons” in this section for further details. Concealed Weapons – Consistent with Title 21 Oklahoma Statutes sections 1277(F) and 1290.22, it is prohibited for anyone to carry a concealed weapon on the University of Tulsa’s campus, except: under specified conditions as set out in University of Tulsa policy, if authorized by the University President (or their designee), or as required by law. Violation of The University of Tulsa’s policies pertaining to concealed weapons will result in a minimum $250 fine and disciplinary action. Please contact the Office of Human Resources or the Office of Student Affairs for questions or additional information. COVID-19 Student Standards The University of Tulsa is committed to mitigating the spread of COVID-19 on campus and within the TU community. The COVID-19 Student Conduct Standards are enacted for the 2021-22 academic term and were revised on August 30, 2021 as general guidelines. Framework The aim of education is the intellectual, personal, social, and ethical development of the individual. The educational process is ideally conducted in an environment that encourages reasoned discourse, intellectual honesty, openness to constructive change, and respect for the rights of all individuals. Self-discipline and a respect for the rights of others in the university community are necessary for the fulfillment of such goals. The Student Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) is designed to promote this environment at The University of Tulsa and an expectation of students who choose to join the university community. These COVID-19 Student Conduct Standards (“Conduct Standards”) have been adopted by The University of Tulsa to promote health and safety on campus and among our student body. These Conduct Standards supplement the Code of Conduct and violations will result in educational intervention and / or disciplinary sanctions up to and including loss of on-campus privileges. Conduct Standards: Practice good personal hygiene and frequently wash your hands for 20 seconds with antibacterial soap. If soap and water are not readily available, clean your hands with a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Follow all posted procedures for entering and exiting buildings on campus. Conduct daily symptom monitoring and check your temperature before leaving your residence each day. Please stay home, do not enter any buildings on campus and call the COVID-19 Hotline at 918-631-2900 for further evaluation if you are: feeling ill or unwell; have a fever of 100.4 or higher; have been in contact with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19; or if you have been asked to self-quarantine or self-isolate by a health care provider or health agency. Cover coughs and sneezes: if you are in a private setting and do not have on a cloth face covering, remember to always cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze or use the inside of your elbow. Throw used tissues in the trash. Immediately wash your hands or utilize a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Routinely clean and disinfect surfaces and objects that are frequently touched. This may include cleaning objects/surfaces not ordinarily cleaned daily (e.g., doorknobs, light switches, classroom sink handles, countertops). Engage in responsible behavior and conduct when off-campus and observe local and state health guidelines pertaining to COVID-19 at all times. Follow all University policies and procedures enacted pursuant to the TU Safe Return to Campus Plan or otherwise adopted by the University.  Conduct System Abuse Abuse of any University student conduct system, including, but not limited to: Failure to obey the notice of a student conduct body or University official; Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information before a student conduct body; Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of a student conduct proceeding; Institution of a conduct proceeding knowingly without cause; Attempting to discourage an individual’s proper participation in or use of a University student conduct system; Attempting to influence the impartiality of a member of the University Student Conduct Board prior to, and/or during the course of a conduct proceeding; Harassment (verbal or physical) and/or intimidation of a member of the University Student Conduct Board prior to during, and/or after a conduct proceeding; Failure to comply with one or more sanctions imposed under the code of student conduct; Influencing or attempting to influence another person to commit an abuse of the University Student Conduct system Prohibit retaliation against a complainant especially in connection with a complaint of sexual harassment or violence. Failure to comply with confidentiality obligations as required by federal law, state law, or university policies and procedures. Examples of violations of the General Standard of Conduct may include, but are not limited to, the following: Physical abuse or assault upon another Threatening the safety of self or others Damage to the property of another or the University Theft of property or other things of value Intentional misrepresentation of facts or information on University documents or given to University personnel Misuse of University equipment, funds, identification/debit cards Using TU computer resources to illegally download copyrighted material (see Ethics Code and Policy for Computer use) Defacing University property, including library materials Violations of the alcohol or drug policies The use of threatening or obscene language toward another Sexual harassment which includes sexual violence and sexual assault Activities that violate University policies of nondiscrimination in regard to race, religion, national origin, ethnic origin, age, gender, handicap, or status as a veteran Harassment as defined by the University’s Harassment Policy Complaint Intake Process Any person may file a report of misconduct by submitting a report through CaneCares. In every report of student misconduct or interpersonal violence, the Office of Student Life will make an immediate assessment of any risk of harm to individuals or to the campus community and will take steps necessary to address those risks. Examples of such measures include, but are not limited to, campus activity restrictions, no contact orders, loss of campus access (living), and trespass ban throughout the duration of the conduct process. As part of the complaint intake and initial assessment of the facts, as applicable to the type of conduct at issue and the source of the report, the Office of Student Life will: Assess the nature and circumstances of the allegation; Respond to any need to address immediate physical safety and emotional well-being; Notify any complainant of rights and resources available, including: the right to contact law enforcement and seek medical treatment if necessary; The importance of preservation of evidence; Information about on- and off-campus resources; Range of available safety and remedial measures; Explanation of the procedural options, including informal remedies-based resolution and formal resolution through the University Student Conduct Board (USCB); University prohibition on retaliation Assess conduct for the need for a timely report fulfilling Clery Act regulations and, as required, report incident for inclusion in the university’s daily crime log; Review conduct history of respondent for potential patterns of conduct; Conduct pre-hearing interview and review check-list with Reporting Party if judicial proceedings are enacted; Conduct pre-hearing interview and review check-list with Responding Party if judicial proceedings are enacted. USCB is notified of upcoming hearing and date is scheduled convenient to all parties Student Conduct Proceedings The University uses formal and informal resolution options when students and/or student organizations are charged with or suspected of violations of university policy. The conduct procedures outlined herein, apply to all student conduct proceedings arising from alleged violations of University policy, including the Code of Student Conduct, except where an alternative procedure is specifically provided for by the University policy at issue. Conduct subject to academic standards under the policies of a specific program (i.e., law, nursing) may also be subject to review under additional disciplinary procedures of that program. The President (or designee) and Dean of Students have the right to proceed summarily to find misconduct and impose sanctions in cases of serious consequence, where they determine such action is in the best interests of the University. Administrative and Informal Resolution If the University is the complainant or there is no individual complainant: Notice of Allegations and Procedural Options The accused student shall be notified in writing of the allegation of misconduct. The written notice shall include the student’s right to dispute the allegation, either through administrative resolution or hearing before the USCB. Where deemed appropriate in their sole discretion, the Case Administrator (Dean of Students or designee) may include in the written notice a proposed sanction to be imposed if the student chooses not to contest the allegation. The accused student shall have no less than five (5) business days from when the written notice is issued to decide to dispute the allegation. If an accused student disputes the violations at issue, the accused student has the right to a hearing by a conduct panel of the USCB but may voluntarily elect administrative resolution as provided herein. If the student elects an administrative resolution, the student waives the right to a hearing and the related procedural guarantees provided by the USCB. In any instance where the accused student does not contest the violations at issue, the Case Administrator may issue a finding of misconduct and decide the appropriate sanction rather than have the complaints referred to the Conduct Board for a hearing. The student shall have the right to appeal the sanction (see #3, below). Investigation and Findings (where student contests misconduct) If the student disputes being responsible for the alleged misconduct, the Case Administrator (or designee) will conduct an investigation into the complaint. The Case Administrator will meet, virtually or in person, with the accused student, who will have the opportunity to provide a response to the allegations. The student may also submit a written response to the allegations. If the student declines to meet, the Case Administrator may proceed with making determinations of responsibility and sanction. The Case Administrator shall determine if the accused student is responsible for violating University policy and the sanction(s) to be imposed. The Case Administrator shall notify the student of the decision in writing. Appeal Within (5) business days of the Case Administrator’s final decision, the student may request an appeal to the Provost (or Provost’s designee) but may do so only upon the grounds that the sanction is grossly disproportionate in light of the offense committed and the disciplinary history of the student. If an accused student does not admit to the violations at issue, the accused student has the right to a hearing by a conduct panel of the USCB but may voluntarily elect an informal resolution as provided herein. If the student elects an informal resolution, the student waives the right to a hearing and the related procedural guarantees provided by the USCB. The Case Administrator (or designee) will conduct an investigation into the complaint. The Case Administrator will meet, virtually or in person, with the accused student, who will have the opportunity to provide a response to the allegations. If the student declines to meet, the Case Administrator may proceed with making determinations of responsibility and sanction. The Case Administrator shall determine if the accused student is responsible for violating University policy and the sanction(s) to be imposed. The Case Administrator shall notify the student of the decision. If there is an individual (non-institutional) complainant: Notice of Allegations and Procedural Options The accused student shall be notified in writing of the allegation of misconduct. The written notice shall include the student’s right to a hearing before the USCB, and the option to resolve the complaint informally with the mutual consent of the complainant. Informal Resolution by Mutual Consent At any time prior to a USCB hearing, with the consent of the complainant, an accused student may waive the right to proceedings by the USCB and elect to proceed through informal resolution by mutual consent. The Case Administrator will attempt to support the parties involved in reaching an informal resolution by mutual consent on a basis acceptable to the Case Administrator. As a condition of the informal resolution process, the Case Administrator shall obtain the mutual consent of the parties to share the results of the informal resolution with the other party, including any sanctions imposed, as well as the completion status of such sanctions. Such disposition shall be final and there shall be no subsequent proceedings. If the matter cannot be disposed of by mutual consent, the matter may be referred to the USCB. The Case Administrator may later serve in the same role for the USCB proceeding. Formal Resolution (USCB Hearing) USCB Membership The USCB of the University shall be composed of the Dean of Students (or designee) as a permanent member and of an additional 12 to 14 members appointed for one-year terms as follows: At least four (4) faculty members selected by the President of the Faculty Senate. At least four (4) University Staff members recommended by the President of the University (or designee). Four (4) undergraduate students appointed annually by the President of the Student Association with the approval of the Student Senate. The Dean of Students (or designee) shall appoint the Chair of each hearing panel. If the Student Association fails to appoint members, the Dean of Students (or designee) may select students to fill the positions. If there is a vacancy among the members of the USCB, the Dean of Students (or designee) may appoint a temporary member. All student members are subject to the approval of the Dean of Students. All members may be re-appointed to serve more than one term. Hearing Panels Each panel will consist of five USCB members. The USCB Hearing Process Quorum For USCB hearings virtually or in person, three (3) members (in any combination) of the Conduct Board constitute a quorum. If the Conduct Board is unable to attain a quorum within a reasonable period of time, the Dean of Students (or designee) may appoint temporary members as needed. If fewer than three (3) voting members of the Conduct Board are present at the opening of a hearing, the hearing may be postponed until three (3) voting members can be convened, or, upon written agreement of the chairperson, complainant, and respondent, the requirements in this subsection may be waived. Any member of a hearing panel may voluntarily recuse him or herself from a particular proceeding. Participation of a hearing panel member can also be challenged by a complainant or respondent. If there is no quorum due to a member’s recusal or removal, the hearing will be delayed until an alternate member of the USCB can be selected. Jurisdiction The USCB has jurisdiction over all student offenses except where an alternative procedure is specifically provided for by the University policy at issue (e.g., Title IX). An offense is any act or omission by a student or student organization that violates University policies and regulations as stated in the Student Code of Conduct; the Statement of Student Rights, Freedoms, and Responsibilities; or any other official University document or publication. It shall also be regarded as an offense if a student violates federal, state, or local laws as they might pertain to the student’s relationship to the University. The USCB shall have original jurisdiction to hear complaints respecting student offenses, and the USCB shall have appellate jurisdiction regarding the conduct procedures of the Interfraternity Council (IFC) and residence hall disciplinary proceedings. The jurisdiction of the USCB is non-exclusive and shall not deprive the President or Dean of Students of the right to proceed summarily in cases of serious consequence, where the Dean of Students determines such action is in the best interests of the University. The USCB serves as the final level of appeal for student complaints. USCB Hearing Participants The University Conduct Case Administrator The University Conduct Case Administrator (Dean of Students or Designee) organizes the hearing procedures, including recruiting the panel, communicating to all parties about the hearing date and time, and distributing case materials to all parties. The Case Administrator is responsible for deciding upon matters related to witnesses, evidence, and procedures. The USCB chair and/or the Case Administrator may exclude from a hearing any person in attendance who disrupts a hearing. The Case Administrator may consult with the USCB and other University officials as necessary. Complainant Person(s) or entity making a complaint or referral regarding a student or student group who allegedly violated University policy. Respondent A student or student group who has allegedly violated University policy. Advisors In a USCB hearing, the respondent(s) and/or complainant(s) may have a non‐attorney advisor of their choice. The advisor may generally assist the respondent(s) and complainant(s) during the hearing. The advisor may attend the University Conduct Board Hearing but will not question witnesses, provide statements or speak on behalf of a student. Neither the complainant nor the respondent is obligated to meet with an advisor. The respondent(s) and complainant(s) will specify whether an advisor will be assisting them, and if so, provide the name of the person chosen. Attorneys If a USCB hearing involves allegations of sexual misconduct or allegations of conduct that could constitute a capital/life offense under Oklahoma criminal law, the respondent(s) and/or complainant(s) may be accompanied by an attorney. The attorney may not participate in the hearing. The attorney may advise their client with respect to their testimony. Any attorney in attendance will comply with all guidelines for the USCB hearing process. If a party desires to be accompanied by an attorney, that party will provide the Case Administrator with the attorney’s name, address, and phone number at least four (4) days prior to the date of the hearing. The University may have an attorney present at the hearing. USCB Pre‐Hearing Procedures Notice and Investigation The University will conduct an investigation into the alleged misconduct. Such investigation may include by conducting interviews, collecting documents and records, and collecting or examining other evidence. No less than fourteen (14) days before the hearing, the Case Administrator will provide the respondent(s) with written notification of the charges, and the time and place of the hearing, virtually or in person. The Case Administrator shall conduct a pre-hearing interview and review the pre-hearing checklist with each party. No less than seven (7) days prior to the hearing, the complainant and the respondent must each present to the Office of Student Life copies of all documents to be introduced at the hearing as well as written copies of any witness testimony that will be presented in person or by summation, including a brief summary of anticipated testimony. No less than five (5) business days before the hearing, the Case Administrator shall provide the parties with a copy of any investigative reports generated by the University with respect to the matter, copies of any documents to be introduced at the hearing by either party, and a list of those witnesses whose testimony will be presented in person or by summation through a Conduct Officer, including a brief summary of the anticipated testimony. Witnesses The respondent(s) and complainant(s) will provide the Case Administrator with a written list of witnesses they would like to appear at the hearing at least five (5) days prior to the hearing by 9:00 AM. The Case Administrator will notify the parties of any witnesses who have been selected to appear at the hearing. Character witnesses are not permitted. Fact witnesses must provide a written statement summarizing their proposed testimony to the Case Administrator at least seven (7) days prior to a Conduct Board Hearing. The “complainant” (including the University in situations where the complainant does not wish to proceed on their own) and the “respondent” are each responsible for notifying their own witnesses of the time, place, and date of the hearing. The University shall notify members of the student community that failure to appear as a witness may result in a charge against them under the Student Code of Conduct for failing to comply with requests from University staff. If, after the deadline described herein, either party believes that there is new information which may substantially influence the outcome of the hearing, they may make a written request to the Case Administrator that the information be admitted to the hearing. USCB Hearing Procedures USCB hearings proceed as follows virtually or in person: The Conduct Board may make an audio and/or video recording or verbatim stenographic record of the proceedings upon its own initiative or by request of either party. The chair of the USCB panel reads the charge(s) and informs the respondent(s) of the right to remain silent. The Case Administrator is available to answer any questions posed by the USCB Chair. The Complainant may make an opening statement. The Respondent may make an opening statement. The respondent(s) and the complainant(s) may ask questions of all witnesses who are called to the hearing. It may be required that all questions be directed through the Chair of the USCB panel. At the discretion of the Chair of the USCB panel, witnesses may be recalled. The complainant may make a closing statement. The respondent may make a closing statement. Formal rules of process, procedures, and/or technical rules of evidence, such as are applied in criminal or civil court are not used in Conduct Board proceedings. The Conduct Board examines the evidence and the testimony of any witnesses, including the respondent and complainant. The Conduct Board shall determine by a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing whether the respondent has committed a violation of the University policy or policies at issue. A preponderance of the evidence means that the Conduct Board must determine whether, based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing, it is more likely than not that the respondent committed the alleged violation. If an accused student, with notice, does not appear before a Student Conduct Board Hearing, the information in support of the complainant shall be presented and considered even if the accused student is not present. This includes situations where the student withdraws from the University pending a hearing. USCB Deliberations: Determination of Responsibility Following the closing statements, the University Student Conduct Board shall deliberate in executive session (only hearing panel members and legal counsel for the University may be present during the session) to reach a decision and to determine if the respondent(s) is responsible for violation(s) of the University policy or policies at issue. If so, the Conduct Board shall recommend appropriate sanction(s) up to expulsion from the University, including any accompanying terms (see Sanctions and Accompanying Terms), to the Dean of Students. The Conduct Board shall determine by a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing whether the respondent has committed a violation of the University policy or policies at issue. A preponderance of the evidence means that the Conduct Board must determine whether, based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing, it is more likely than not that the respondent committed the alleged violation. If the Conduct Board makes a determination of responsibility against the respondent, then the Case Administrator may inform the USCB of any prior disciplinary finding(s) and sanction(s) against the respondent prior to the Conduct Board’s determination of the appropriate sanction. If the respondent is found not responsible, the board shall close the case, subject to the appeal rights set forth below. If a majority of the Conduct Board finds that it is more likely than not that the student is partially/fully responsible for an alleged offense, the Conduct Board shall recommend a sanction. The Dean of Students reserves the right to increase or decrease the severity of any sanction recommended in the conduct review process. The decision(s) of the USCB shall be made by majority vote and will be forwarded to the Dean of Students. Within five (5) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Dean of Students (or designee) will notify in writing the respondent(s), and the complainant(s) as permitted by applicable regulations, of the outcome of the case. This notification shall include the following information: Finding of fact; The basis for finding responsibility or non‐responsibility; and If finding the respondent responsible, the reasons for the recommended sanction, if any. USCB Appeals Within five (5) business days of notification of the hearing outcome, either party may appeal the decisions in the case (unless having previously agreed to accept the original decision without an option for appeal), including any sanctions imposed. An appeal must be in writing and shall set forth the specific reason(s) for the appeal. Written copies or summaries of all proceedings appealed to the USCB shall be filed with the Dean of Students prior to any appellate proceedings on such complaints. Except as required to explain the basis of new information, an appeal shall be limited to a review of the verbatim record of the Student Conduct Board hearing and supporting documents for one or more of the following purposes: To determine whether the Student Conduct Board hearing was conducted fairly in light of the complaints and information presented, and in conformity with prescribed procedures giving the complaining party a reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present information that the Student Code was violated, and giving the accused student a reasonable opportunity to prepare and to present a response to those allegations. Deviations from designated procedures will not be a basis for sustaining an appeal unless significant prejudice results. To determine whether the decision reached regarding the accused student was based on substantial information, that is, whether there were facts in the case that, if believed by the fact finder, were sufficient to establish that it is more likely than not that the respondent committed a violation of the University policy or policies at issue. To determine whether the sanction(s) imposed were appropriate. To consider new information, sufficient to alter a decision or other relevant facts not brought out in the original hearing, because such information and/or facts were not known (and could not have been reasonably known) to the person appealing at the time of the original Student Conduct Board hearing. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Dean of Students shall appoint from the membership of the USCB a Review Panel comprising one faculty member, one administrator, and one student. The University may submit to the Review Panel a written response to the student’s appeal, with any supporting information. The Review Panel shall have power, by majority vote, to affirm or overrule the findings, and in the event it affirms, may modify the sanction originally imposed or recommended. Decisions of the USCB Review Panel are final. Retention of Records; Release Unless a record of a sanction imposed in the proceedings becomes and remains a part of the student’s permanent University record, no information about the complaint or the proceedings therein shall, without the consent of all students accused in the complaint, be disclosed to any person except: As provided by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). In response to an order of subpoena of any court or administrative agency having authority to issue such an order of subpoena; in response to any other order with which The University of Tulsa, or any employee of The University in their official capacity is bound to comply. In any conduct, administrative, or other legal proceedings where such information would be relevant and reasonably necessary to defend the interest of The University of Tulsa, or any employee of The University in their official capacity. Sanctions The following sanctions may be implemented individually or in any combination by the USCB or the Dean of Students. The Dean of Students reserves the right to increase or decrease the severity of any sanction recommended in the conduct review process. Sanctions shall be issued in writing and include a completion date, if applicable, as well as the consequence for failing to complete any sanction by the deadline. Students who fail to complete their sanctions within the allotted time period may additionally be subject to having their registration cancelled and/or having a hold placed on their official University records, which may prohibit them from registration, re‐enrolling, or receiving transcripts. Students who fail to timely complete sanctions levied for acts of violence will be expelled from the University. Disciplinary action will be taken immediately when a sanction is not completed on time. The USCB or the Dean of Students is empowered to take disciplinary action or to recommend disciplinary action befitting the situation. The following is an outline of the courses of action available to the USCB, the Dean of Students, and Conduct Administrators, upon recommendation and approval by the Dean of Students, which may be administered separately or in combination in order to achieve the desired sanction: Warning, Reprimand, or Admonition: Verbal or written notification to the student that their conduct has been unacceptable and requires immediate improvement. Further incidents of misconduct may result in additional disciplinary measures. Education: A student may be directed to complete educational training, perform community service, or undertake other such restorative/rehabilitative measures as appropriate. Restitution: A student may be directed to pay, or in some way compensate for damages resulting from their misconduct. Punitive Fine: A student may be directed to pay punitive damages resulting from their misconduct. Such a monetary fine would be payable to The University of Tulsa or other appropriate entity. Probation: There are three forms of probation: Membership Probation — A student’s membership in a particular student organization or intercollegiate sport may be modified if unacceptable conduct recurs. Recurrence of unacceptable behavior may result in suspension from the organization or team. Residence Hall Probation — Imposed when conduct in a residence hall has been unacceptable and bears improvement. Recurrence of such unacceptable conduct may result in removal from the residence hall or other disciplinary measures. Disciplinary Probation — written notification that conduct has been unacceptable. The student is normally placed on disciplinary probation for a specific period. Disciplinary probation also may entail withdrawal of certain privileges such as certain extraocular activities including student leadership opportunities and/or study abroad. If the student is involved in misconduct during their probationary period, the question of their suspension from the University will be raised automatically. Withdrawal of Privileges: Certain student privileges can be withdrawn by the appropriate conduct body. Interim Suspension: In certain circumstances, the Dean of Students or a designee, or the Resident Hall Conduct Administrator may impose a University or residence hall suspension prior to the Student Conduct Board Hearing before a Student Conduct Board. Interim suspension may be imposed only: To ensure the safety and well‐being of members of the University community or preservation of University property; To ensure the student’s own physical or emotional safety and well‐being; or If the student poses an ongoing threat of disruption of, or interference with, the normal operation of The University. During the interim suspension, a student shall be denied access to the residence halls and/or to the campus (including in-person classes) and/or all other University activities or privileges for which the student might otherwise be eligible, as the Dean of Students or a designee may determine to be appropriate. The interim suspension does not replace the regular process, which shall proceed on the normal schedule, up to and through a Student Conduct Board Hearing, if required. Suspension: Suspension of a student from the University indicates that a student’s behavior has been unacceptable to a considerable degree. Suspension may be invoked immediately following appropriate proceedings or at the end of a particular academic session. A student usually will be suspended for a specific period. Following the expiration of this time, the student may petition the suspending body for permission to re‐enroll in The University. Student rights and privileges cease upon Suspension. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree: Admission to or a degree awarded from the University may be revoked for fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of University standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious violations committed by a student prior to graduation. Withholding Degree: The University may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the process set forth in the Student Conduct Code, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any. Dismissal/Expulsion: Dismissal is complete separation from the University. A student may be dismissed for unusual misconduct or after repeated violation of University regulations. Dismissed students are generally not permitted to attend the University after being dismissed. Only in exceptional circumstances will readmission be considered. Dismissed students are not permitted to reapply for admission to the University unless the dismissed student’s request to reapply is reviewed by a special committee comprised of the Dean of Students, General Counsel, and Provost (or a designated representative from each office). Considerations of the special committee will include, but will not be limited to, the nature and severity of the conduct which caused the student’s dismissal, the amount of time that has lapsed since the conduct, and whether there has been any demonstrated rehabilitation of the conduct which caused the dismissal. The special committee’s decision is final and not appealable. Other disciplinary actions as may be deemed appropriate The following sanctions may be imposed upon groups or organizations: Those sanctions listed above. Loss of selected rights and privileges for a specified period of time. Deactivation, loss of all privileges, including University recognition, for a specified period of time. The principles underlying these sanctions are as follows: The University is committed to providing an environment that makes a positive contribution to the health, safety, and welfare of its students. Students have a significant duty and responsibility to ensure their actions and behaviors contribute to such an environment. To the extent that students’ actions or behaviors put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. To the extent that the actions or behaviors of member of student organizations put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. Virtual Investigation Proceedings To protect the safety of students and campus personnel from COVID-19, TU has followed the guidance of government and public health leaders to reduce density and in-person interactions on its campus. The institution is providing this Notice of these minor and temporary modifications to the Student Code of Conduct to inform what has changed and what remains the same. The Notice is meant to help students move forward to address accusations in a way that allows them to take responsibility or demonstrate that they are not responsible, remove transcript holds (where applicable), enable them to register for courses or graduate (where applicable) and otherwise obtain finality and closure in these cases. TU recognizes that it is in the interest of respondents and the institution to resolve open cases in a thorough and expeditious manner. Without instituting virtual processes, cases may need to be held over until the Fall 2021 semester or later before they can be closed, which may impact your education or the ability of the University to reimburse lost expenses once a new semester is undertaken. The institution will endeavor to prioritize cases where the student has a registration hold for the Fall 2021 semester. If a case is in process, and the student is participating in good faith, the student may request a modification of the hold with the Registrar’s Office to allow for registration. Where necessary, the Office of Student Life can confirm this status with the Registrar. Where appropriate, sanctions will be modified to include sanctions that a student can complete at home, such as digital educational modules and community service that may be conducted at a distance. Students will not be required by the institution to complete in-person community service that could put the student, the location of the service, or any other party at a health or safety risk. The institution will, as a matter of course, modify any sanction upon reasonable request to either extend the time of completion of the sanction to a time in which the public health risks have passed or to select another method of community service that does not require in-person contact. The institution will provide students access to video call links, documents, photographs, videos, and other evidence related to the case via Microsoft Teams and/or OneDrive. Any evidence in the student’s personal possession that the student wishes to add to OneDrive may be directly emailed to the Case Manager. Students and their advisors may not copy or share information uploaded to this account. Violations of the rules governing transmission and review of documents through the storage account are separate conduct violations and may result in further disciplinary action and sanctions. All Code of Conduct digital proceedings will be recorded. Distance and digital communication make record keeping and note taking more difficult and, in order to ensure consistency and standards in the process, the institution will record all investigative meetings. Recordings shall be a part of the student’s record. Those Recordings remain the property of TU and may contain personal information of the respondent and other students, so they cannot be shared with anyone other than the participating student’s advisor. Violations of the rules governing the review of recordings are a separate conduct violation and may result in further disciplinary action and sanctions. Any requests for technological accommodations based on a disclosed disability must be conveyed to the Office of Student Life and/or Student Access 48 hours before scheduled proceedings. If an advisor and/or support person is permitted under the Student Code of Conduct, you have the right to have them accompany you to these meetings or hearings. Rules about the number and participation of advisors under the Student Code of Conduct remain in place. Our staff remains available to answer any questions you have about the conduct process and this Notice. Please contact Dean of Students at dean-of-students@utulsa.edu. Rights and Responsibilities of Student Organizations How do Student Organizations Relate to The University of Tulsa’s Student Code of Conduct? As with any community, the University has established standards of conduct for its members. As members of the University community, students are expected to adhere to all published rules, regulations, and policies. Students are also members of the Tulsa community and are obligated to the laws of the city, county, state, and nation. The Student Code of Student Conduct Rights and Responsibilities outlines the rights of students and many of the standards of conduct (responsibilities) expected within The University of Tulsa community. The community standards set forth in The Student Code of Conduct, Rights and Responsibilities contribute to the best environment for students to live and learn. The enforcement of community standards allows the University to maintain and strengthen the ethical climate on campus and to promote the academic integrity of the University. Our goal in administering the non‐academic misconduct process has education at the forefront. If you have specific questions about the Student Code of Conduct or non‐academic misconduct at The University of Tulsa, please contact the Office of Student Affairs at 918/631‐2327. Student organizations are expected to adhere to the policies outlined by The University of Tulsa. Student Organizations: Sanctioning Guidelines The following sanctions will be applied if it is determined by means of The University’s Student Code of Conduct, Policies and Procedures that the actions or behaviors of any member(s) of a student organization (that has an application and selection process for membership) places the health, safety, or welfare of others in jeopardy in connection with any organization activity of any kind whether authorized or not and regardless of where the activity occurs. Generally, sanctions will be applied in sequential order based on repeated violations. However, the University reserves the right, based on the nature and severity of the actions or behaviors, to apply more stringent sanctions even if lesser sanctions have not been previously applied. If a violation were to occur in which resulted in an individual being disabled or a loss of life, the organization would immediately be disbanded with no opportunity to be re‐established for a minimum of ten years. The following sanctions may be imposed upon groups or organizations: Those sanctions listed in Section D. Sanctions for Organizations (below). Loss of selected rights and privileges for a specified period of time. Deactivation, loss of all privileges, including University recognition, for a specified period of time. The principles underlying these sanctions are as follows: The University is committed to providing an environment that makes a positive contribution to the health, safety, and welfare of its students. Students have a significant duty and responsibility to ensure their actions and behaviors contribute to such an environment. To the extent that students’ actions or behaviors put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. To the extent that the actions or behaviors of member of student organizations put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. IFC sanctions may take precedence for violations involving Fraternities. Sanctions for Organizations First Incident in an Academic Year The University would determine the average size of the organization’s three most recent membership classes encompassing an entire academic year, i.e. fall and spring semesters. In the next recruitment cycle following the incident which would either be the fall and spring semester or the spring and fall semester, depending on the date of the violation, the organization’s membership class capacity would be reduced by 33% based on the previous three years’ average. Every prospective member would be required to receive information from the organization during the recruitment period indicating this fact along with a general description of the circumstances that prompted the sanction. Second Incident in a Three‐Year Period Following the First Sanctioned Violation In addition to the sanction for a first violation, a second violation within three academic years would result in the membership class in the next recruiting cycle following the incident (which would either be the fall and spring semester or the spring and fall semester, depending on the date of the violation), to be reduced by an additional 50% based on the previous three years’ average. Additionally, in the case of fraternities and sororities, no freshmen from that membership class would be allowed to move into the fraternity or sorority house in fulfillment of The University’s residency requirement. Third Incident in a Three‐Year Period Following the Second Sanctioned Violation In addition to the sanction for the first and second violation, a third violation within any three academic years would immediately cause the University to rescind its recognition of the organization for a period of two years. The organization could no longer have any relationship with the University, be involved in any activities that were identified in any way 17 as being associated with the organization, and in the case of fraternities and sororities, members would no longer be permitted to live in the organization’s housing facility. The following sanctions may be imposed upon groups or organizations: Those sanctions listed above. Loss of selected rights and privileges for a specified period of time. Deactivation, loss of all privileges, including University recognition, for a specified period of time. The principles underlying these sanctions are as follows: The University is committed to providing an environment that makes a positive contribution to the health, safety, and welfare of its students. Students have a significant duty and responsibility to ensure their actions and behaviors contribute to such an environment. To the extent that students’ actions or behaviors put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. To the extent that the actions or behaviors of member of student organizations put the health, safety, and welfare of others at risk, the University has a duty and obligation to respond appropriately. Student Organizations: Sanctioning Guidelines The following sanctions will be applied if: it is determined by means of The University’s conduct policies and procedures that the actions or behaviors of any member(s) of a student organization (that has an application and selection process for membership) places the health, safety, or welfare of others in jeopardy in connection with any organization activity of any kind whether authorized or not and regardless of where the activity occurs. Generally, these sanctions will be applied in sequential order based on repeated violations. However, the University reserves the right, based on the nature and severity of the actions or behaviors, to apply more stringent sanctions even if lesser sanctions have not been previously applied. If a violation were to occur in which resulted in an individual being disabled or the loss of life, the organization would immediately be disbanded with no opportunity to be re‐established for a minimum of ten years. First Incident in an Academic Year The University would determine the average size of the organization’s three most recent membership classes encompassing an entire academic year, i.e. fall and spring semesters. In the next recruitment cycle following the incident which would either be the fall and spring semester or the spring and fall semester, depending on the date of the violation, the organization’s membership class capacity would be reduced by 33% based on the previous three years’ average. Every prospective member would be required to receive information from the organization during the recruitment period indicating this fact along with a general description of the circumstances that prompted the sanction. Second Incident in a Three‐Year Period Following the First Sanctioned Violation In addition to the sanction for a first violation, a second violation within any three academic years would result in the membership class in the next recruiting cycle following the incident which would either be the fall and spring semester or the spring and fall semester, depending on the date of the violation, to be reduced by an additional 50% based on the previous three years’ average. Additionally, in the case of fraternities and sororities, no freshmen from that membership class would be allowed to move into the fraternity or sorority house in fulfillment of The University’s residency requirement. Third Incident in a Three‐Year Period Following the Second Sanctioned Violation In addition to the sanction for the first and second violation, a third violation within any three academic years would immediately cause the University to rescind its recognition of the organization for a period of two years. The organization could no longer have any relationship with The University, be involved in any activities that were identified in any way as being associated with the organization, and in the case of fraternities and sororities, members would no longer be permitted to live in the organization’s housing facility. Violations of the general Standard of Student Code of Conduct may include, but are not limited to the following: Exclusion from certain extra‐curricular, co‐curricular, intramural, intercollegiate, or student activities and organizations; Verbal and/or written warning; Reprimand; admonition; restitution; Punitive fine; Membership, residence hall, or disciplinary probation; Withdrawal of privileges; suspension; Expulsion; dismissal. Individual Student Sanctions Applies to all students Outlines expectations for the behavior and responsibilities for both students and organizations. Involuntary Separation Policy The University of Tulsa cares deeply about its students and provides a variety of programs and services on campus to support them. However, some students exhibit behaviors which call into question their ability to function successfully or safely in their role as a student member of the University community. In those instances, the University may take action which considers the welfare of the individual student and the University community and the integrity of the learning environment. This policy describes the types of behaviors that the University may need to address, and the procedures which may be used. In rare circumstances, the Dean of Students or designee may determine that a student must be involuntarily separated from the University. Those who are involuntarily separated for any reason are not allowed to participate in any University activities, attend classes, reside in or visit on‐campus student housing, and may not be on campus except to attend a meeting or hearing related to their separation. Involuntary Separation shall remain in effect for a minimum of one calendar year. Students who desire campus housing on their return from an Involuntary Separation are responsible for notifying the Office of Housing and Residence Life of their intention with sufficient advance notice. The University cannot guarantee on‐campus housing will be available upon return to the University. The procedures for Involuntary Separation from the University will be used only after reasonable attempts to secure voluntary separation have been exhausted. An Involuntary Separation may be imposed if a student is unwilling or unable to request a voluntary leave of absence, and such a separation may be necessary to protect the safety of the University community and the integrity of the University’s learning environment. A student will be subject to Involuntary Separation when there is a reasonable possibility the student’s behavior will result in: Imminent danger to the University community, or Disruption of the learning environment, or Causing significant property damage, or The inability to meet their responsibilities as a student, or The inability to care for their daily physical needs without assistance and the student has failed to secure such assistance. In most such cases these situations can be addressed by the student’s decision to voluntarily withdraw from the University. However, if the student is unwilling to voluntarily withdraw, the Dean of Students or designee may invoke the University’s right to involuntarily separate the student from the University. The Dean of Students or designee will stipulate conditions which must be completed. The student must comply with the written stipulations in order to be readmitted to The University following an Involuntary Separation. An Involuntary Separation may be implemented immediately by the Dean of Students or designee if the Dean of Students or designee determines that the student’s behavior falls into any one or more of the categories above. The Dean or designee may seek the advice and counsel of others in making this determination. The students who are to be involuntarily separated shall be given an opportunity to personally appear or have a representative appear on their behalf before the Dean of Students or designee within two (2) University business days prior to the effective date of separation to review the following issues. The representative must be a member of the University community and attorneys are not permitted to participate in the meeting to discuss: The reliability of the information concerning the student’s behavior, and/or Whether or not the student’s behavior poses a danger of causing imminent harm to members of the University community or integrity of the learning environment, causing significant property damage, or substantially impeding the lawful activities of others. Following the meeting, the Dean of Students will notify the student in writing indicating whether the Involuntary Separation will or will not proceed. Appeal Process If a student believes that a decision for an Involuntary Separation made by the Dean of Students or designee is unreasonable or that the procedures used were unfair, the student may appeal. The appeal must be made in writing to the Vice President for Student Services or the Vice President’s designee, within five (5) University business days. Appeals should clarify what facts the student believes were not considered or explain what procedures where unreasonable or unfair. Once notified of the Involuntary Separation, the student has five (5) University business days to submit their appeal. The Vice President or designee will respond in writing to the student’s appeal within three (3) University business days. The response will clarify whether the Vice President or designee concludes that all relevant facts were considered and led to fair and reasonable conclusions. Exceptions to these deadlines may be made at the discretion of the Vice President or designee. Unless the Vice President or designee determines otherwise, the student will remain separated from the University for a period of one calendar year and must comply with stipulations provided by the Dean of Students before returning to the University. Request for Re‐Enrollment A student who has received an Involuntary Separation or who withdrew voluntarily may be allowed to return to the University if they satisfy the stipulations for return and completes the following procedures in consultation with the Dean of Students. Written request: A written request for re‐enrollment must be submitted to the Dean of students or designee. The student’s re‐enrollment request will be reviewed by the Dean of Students or designee. The University reserves the right to establish that a student must meet certain criteria or stipulations prior to resumption of enrollment. The criteria include but are not limited to compelling information that the behavior that precipitated the need for the Involuntary Separation has been resolved to the degree that it will no longer adversely affect the University community or integrity of the learning environment. The criteria or stipulations will be identified at the time the Involuntary Separation is imposed. Student interview: The student must schedule an interview with the Dean of Students or designee to review the completion of stipulations and to determine if the student is ready to resume living in the residential community and/or return to the University. The Decision: Based upon the evaluation and interview processes, the Dean of Students or designee will make a decision about the student’s readiness to resume or remain living in the residential community and/or return to the University. The decision will also take into account the impact on the community if the student returns, as well as University resources available to support the student. The student will receive a written notification of the decision. Approval to return may include specific conditions and/or requirements for continued enrollment. Care and Concern Policy I. Purpose This Care and Concern Policy outlines the manner in which University will endeavor to reduce or manage behavior that presents an immediate danger to the life, health, welfare, safety, or property of any member of the college community (“Concerning Behavior”). University expects and encourages students to maintain a reasonable concern for the life, health, welfare, safety, and property of every member of the college community. Concerning Behavior is a serious threat to the campus community which will result in an immediate response pursuant to this policy. The above-stated purpose of this policy is not to punish already troubled students; rather, the policy is intended to provide structure for responding to Concerning Behavior—without superseding confidentiality and reporting obligations that apply to health professionals—in order to address risks to the entire campus community’s health and safety which arise when students display Concerning Behaviors. II. Policy A. Behavior Intervention Team Determinations In the event the University is presented with a credible report that a student has engaged in or displayed Concerning Behavior, the University Behavior Intervention Team (“BIT”) will determine an appropriate response. The BIT, in consultation with other University personnel, will consider the recommendations of evaluating or treating professionals, the availability of resources to meet the student’s needs, and concern for the well-being of the campus community in determining the appropriate response. The BIT, where appropriate, may take steps, including contacting the student’s parents (see the Parental Notification Policy) and/or other appropriate parties in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals. In the event the BIT determines that an immediate involuntary withdrawal is necessary, the University will take action in accordance with its Involuntary Withdrawal policy. B. Formal Assessments If the BIT determines that a formal assessment is warranted following a credible report of Concerning Behavior (including, but not limited to, threats of harm to any campus community member, threats of suicide, attempts at suicide, excessive drug or alcohol use, anorexic or bulimic behavior, disruption of class, or destruction of property), the BIT will recommend that the student enter into a University Care and Concern Contract. This Contract requires the student to attend four, one-hour sessions of personalized, individual assessment with a licensed mental health professional, who will be either a staff member in the University Wellness Center or a private practitioner, as the student chooses. The chosen professional will conduct a comprehensive and in-depth assessment of the Concerning Behavior in order to reduce or manage such behavior. Such assessment will include review of the student’s Concerning Behavior, any precipitating incident(s), prior attempts or threats, and current thoughts the student has related to personal well-being and the well-being of others. The first assessment will occur within one week of the BIT’s receipt of a credible report of Concerning Behavior. The three remaining assessments will occur at weekly intervals thereafter unless the treating professional determines otherwise. The professional will determine the ultimate timeframe for completing assessments based on the needs of the student. Failure to comply with the prescribed timeframe may be viewed as a violation of the Care and Concern Contract and could result in disciplinary action, academic encumbrance, suspension and/or administrative withdrawal. If a student requires hospitalization following an incident of Concerning Behavior, the first assessment will occur within one week after the student is released from the hospital, should the student seek to return to classes. Pursuant to the Care and Concern Contract, the student authorizes the treating professional to provide the University BIT with a written Mandated Risk Assessment Summary, including reports of instances in which the student threatened or attempted to engage in efforts to harm him or herself or any other member of the campus community, or expressed a preoccupation with harming him or herself or any other member of the campus community. The purpose of the assessment is not to cure or diagnose underlying conditions. Based on the professional’s final Mandated Risk Assessment Summary, provided the student has reduced the behavior at issue sufficient to enable safe participation in the campus community, the student may return to classes as usual. A professional assessment is not formal counseling or therapy. The student may request the professional to undertake counseling and/or therapy in addition to the formal assessment, but the professional shall not engage in such counseling or therapy without the student’s consent. The University may take administrative action against a student for failure to enter into a Care and Concern Contract upon recommendation of the BIT. Further, nothing in this policy or the accompanying Contract limits the University’s right to take any other actions necessary for the health and welfare of the student and the entire campus community. Demonstration of continued Concerning Behavior that interferes with anyone’s safe participation in the campus community will be addressed in accordance with the University’s student judicial code, code of conduct, or other applicable University policies. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT