Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sharp Chapel / Weddings Weddings SHARP CHAPEL Campus Ministries Sharp Chapel History Memorial Trees Presbyterian Connection Weddings Rental Information The University welcomes the use of the Sharp Chapel for weddings of all denominations and faiths, as well as for interfaith weddings. Applicants need to be affiliated with the University of Tulsa to be married here. Affiliated members include students, faculty, staff, alumni, trustees and retirees, and their immediate family members (father, mother, sister, brother, grandparents, children). The staff at Sharp Memorial Chapel has organized all the info you need for your wedding at Sharp Chapel. Specific policies and guidelines set forth by The University of Tulsa governing campus conduct and the use of Chapel facilities are to be strictly followed. Contact Information After reviewing this information, we encourage you to contact Mary McKee at 918-631-2546. Hours Sharp Chapel office hours for the academic school year are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Wedding Planning Packet For details to planning a wedding at Sharp Memorial Chapel, download our wedding packet. Reservation Request If you’d like to reserve Sharp Chapel, please submit a reservation request. Chapel Facilities Sanctuary The sanctuary seats approximately 250-280 people; 250 on the main floor and 20 to 30 in the balcony. The sanctuary aisle is 75 feet long. There are a total of 38 pews on the main floor, 19 on either side of the center aisle. The walls are brown and buff colored stone. The floors are blue and grey slate. The wooden Tudor arches of the sanctuary extend 42 feet above the floor. Piano/Organ A concert baby grand piano and an organ are available in the sanctuary. The organ was designed and installed by the Schantz Organ Company of Orrville, Ohio. It has three manual consoles with 33 stops, for a total of 1,750 pipes and a set of 25 Deagan Chimes. The pipes and chimes are placed behind screens at either side of the great Chancel Window. They include classic flute and reed choruses, often used in 18th century compositions as well as some of the more recently developed tone colors for playing 19th century and contemporary works. Music Regulations apply. Josephine Meditation Chapel The prayer chapel seats approximately 20 people, with four pews that may be arranged to suit the couple’s preferences. Buford Atrium The Buford Atrium will accommodate up to 50 seated or 100 standing guests. Canterbury Suite Included in your rental for no additional fee, the bridal party may use the Canterbury Suite on the second floor for waiting or dressing. Food Catering Services University policy dictates that catering for all events on campus must be provided by Sodexo Dining Services. For catering information, please contact the Dining Operations Assistant at 918-631-2145. Additional Facility Information For information about other reception areas available on campus, contact Sharp Chapel, 631-2546. Decoration Regulations The bride and groom may use the florist of their choice. The following guidelines will help with planning the decoration and use of Sharp Chapel for a wedding. Furniture, (pulpit, lectern, pulpit chairs, tables, etc.) and/or Symbols (Bible, Baptismal font, candlesticks, etc.) may not be moved or displaced in any manner. This rule is non-negotiable, NO EXCEPTIONS! The communion table/altar may not be decorated. Communion may be served during your wedding service. Since this is a ritual and sacrament of the church, it is appropriate for these elements to be placed on the Holy Table. The elements are provided by either the couple or the minister/priest. If sacramental wine is used, it must be furnished by the minister/priest. No tacks, nails, wires, metal, tape or similar harmful items are to be used to attach flowers, ribbons, or other items to pews, walls or other furniture. The number of candelabra is limited to 3. This does not include the use of a unity candle. No lighted candles are to be carried in the Sanctuary. The university does provide two brass candle lighters. Persons lighting candles must be at least 12 years of age and/or over 5 feet tall. Candles or hurricane lamps are not to be attached to the pews or used in the aisles nor may they be placed in the windows. Lighted candles are to be used in the chancel area only. Please inform your florist of the specific three-hour time block for which you have rented the Chapel. Please do not ask permission to come in earlier than the specified time. It is not possible due to other scheduling commitments. The building will be unlocked at the beginning of the three-hour time block for which you have rented the Chapel. Please do not ask permission to come in earlier than the specified time. It is not possible due to other scheduling commitments. All personal and rented items must be removed prior to locking the facility at the end of the three-hour time block. If your reception is to be held on campus at a location other than Sharp Chapel all personal property should be removed from the Chapel before departing for the reception. The University of Tulsa assumes no responsibility for articles or equipment left unattended during or after the wedding and reception. Please call TU Security lost and found at 918-631-5555 to check on lost articles. Smoking is not permitted anywhere inside the chapel building. ` Food and beverages are not allowed in any part of the Sanctuary or Prayer Chapel. University policy forbids the serving and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the Chapel premises. ` Makeup may only be applied in the women’s restroom area. Birdseed, rice and/or real rose petals are not to be thrown or scattered inside or outside of building. (We allow silk rose petals to be scattered in the aisle by your flower girl if desired.) The rules presented in these guidelines apply to all individuals associated with your wedding. Download Wedding Guidelines (Full packet download in PDF) Sharp Chapel accommodates handicapped visitors, with an automated double doorway on the South side of the Buford Atrium and with widened stalls in the public restrooms. Minister Selection Couples are responsible for selecting and contacting the minister of their choice. Clergy or other properly recognized public officials who are registered with the County Clerk’s office are eligible to officiate at weddings in the Chapel. Should the couple wish to have a minister from outside the state of Oklahoma perform the ceremony, that person is required to register his/her credentials with the County Court Clerk’s office. The minister must either present credentials at the clerk’s office or mail a copy of credentials with a stamped, self-addressed envelope for return of book and page number to be used for the marriage license. Any further questions may be directed to the County Clerk’s office at 918-596-5452. Available Ministers MINISTER’S NAME CHURCH AFFILIATION PHONE Dr. Jeff Francis Presbyterian Sharp Chaplain 918-631-2546 Rev. Todd Freeman Presbyterian 918-592-5800 Steve Lewis Southern Baptist 918-494-3755 M. Miles Henry Non-Denominational 918-455-2470 918-494-3908 Music Regulations The couple is responsible for securing services of musicians for the ceremony. Decisions about music for the ceremony should be made in consultation with the minister conducting the service and the contracted musician(s). Organists and/or other musicians are paid directly by the bride and groom. Parking The Sharp Chapel is located at The University of Tulsa at 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104. Suggested parking areas include: The Westby Center Lot at 7th and South Evanston The Student Union Visitor Lot on 5th Place between Florence and Gary The McFarlin Lot at East 5th Place and South Florence Visitors to The University of Tulsa campus may park in any legal parking space. Map Location Maps of Campus Parking Map Photography The couple may select a photographer of their choice. It will be important to include the photographer in planning when the wedding pictures should be taken, and what amount of time should be allowed. For example, if wedding pictures are to be taken immediately after the ceremony, time should be allowed for the guests to leave the sanctuary and at least one half hour must be allowed for the photography. And, some time should be allotted to remove gifts, clothing, and all remaining personal property from the building. It is therefore recommended that the wedding begin no later than one and one half hours from the start of the three-hour time period. Any flash pictures should be taken before and after the ceremony. Please use existing light only during the wedding service, to minimize disruptions. Video cameras may be stationed in the balcony and on either side of the chancel area. The camera in the chancel area should be on a stationary tripod to avoid movement that might distract from the ceremony. Reception The Sharp Chapel Atrium is available to rent for receptions. The fees vary depending on the couple’s affiliation with the university (Rental Cost). The Atrium will accommodate up to 50 people seated, or up to 100 standing or in a receiving lines arrangement. Wedding receptions held in the Chapel must be catered by Sodexo Dining Services Department. (The wedding cake may be brought in by the wedding party.) Catering arrangements and details are available through the Dining Operations Assistant, at 918-631-2145 University policy forbids the serving and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the Chapel premises. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT