Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Provost / Assessment Initiatives Assessment Initiatives PROVOST Accreditation Program Accreditation Assessment Initiatives TU Commitment Student Achievement Data Student Success Faculty Senate Provost Staff Contact Office of the Provost Continuous Improvement Philosophy The University of Tulsa is committed to continuous improvement in all of its functions. Continuous improvement of student learning through the curriculum is a faculty- and data-driven process. University administrators provide assistance and resources to carry out curricular and co-curricular assessment activities; however, faculty steer the curriculum and student learning assessment process. From faculty engagement in assessment, teaching and learning improvement strategies emerge, which lead to higher levels of student achievement. Assessment is also done at the college and academic department levels, measuring the increasingly focused missions of these smaller units. The goal is to ensure that at every level the mission of the University is achieved and to find ways to continually improve the curriculum, teaching, and student achievement. Continuous Improvement Plan The University of Tulsa is committed to a culture of continuous improvement through the process of university assessment. The TU plan of Continuous Improvement occurs with regularity and constancy. Strategies for improvement are guided by evidence and aligned with the University mission. The institution evaluates university functions, so as to determine how well we are achieving our stated mission. The TU commitment to continuous improvement ensures the implementation of assessment processes that evaluate student learning, educational programs, co-curricular services and engagement activities. The Academic Continuous Improvement Process diagram shows the university processes for continuous improvement for assessment of the Tulsa Curriculum, annual assessments, periodic program reviews and co-curricular learning activities. The Accountability Plan is a visualization of faculty, staff, and administrative academic assessment responsibilities. Learning Outcomes Institutional Learning Outcomes are measurable University goals that align with the mission. Academic programs, Tulsa Curriculum, and co-curricular learning activities are aligned and assessed to ensure achievement. This important work was the product of the University Assessment Committee and approved by Deans’ Council and University Curriculum Committee. Institutional learning outcomes (ILOs), program learning outcomes (PLOs), and student learning outcomes for individual courses (SLOs) are used to establish institution, program, and course level student goals. To guide faculty in the development and continued improvement of learning outcomes, the University Assessment Committee developed Guidelines for Writing Differentiated Learning Outcomes. Use of the guidelines will help ensure that the institution maintains appropriate distinctions between learning outcomes for doctoral, master, bachelor, and certificate programs. As an institution, we have used the mission statement as de facto ILOs. Some of these are difficult to measure and so Institutional Learning Outcomes have recently been extracted from the TU mission statement and modified so that each of the outcomes is measurable. This important work was the product of the University Assessment Committee and approved by Deans’ Council and the University Curriculum Committee. Tulsa Curriculum The Tulsa Curriculum assessment process evaluates student achievement of the Tulsa Curriculum Outcomes in Block and Core courses through foundational and comprehensive course assignments using a common Course Assessment Report. The Tulsa Curriculum is a university framework developed by faculty to advance broad knowledge and intellectual concepts, which the University believes every college student should acquire. In summer 2018, the Tulsa Curriculum Review Committee was formed and charged with conducting a comprehensive review of the Tulsa Curriculum. The committee has completed its review of the Tulsa Curriculum and submitted recommendations to the Office of the Provost. The University Curriculum Committee will review the recommendations and implement changes in Fall 2021. To lay the assessment foundation for their work, TU conducts a course embedded assessment review of the Tulsa Curriculum annually. In fall 2018, faculty teaching in the Tulsa Curriculum Program finalized the Tulsa Curriculum Learning Outcomes. Annual Program Review The University of Tulsa demonstrates, through its ongoing assessment initiatives, a commitment to educational achievement and improvement of student learning. Institutional and program level methods focus on student attainment of The University of Tulsa mission. Institutional learning outcomes are measured at the college, program, and course level. The Annual Program Review process is a faculty-driven initiative that measures attainment of program learning outcomes for undergraduate, graduate, and professional programs. The Annual Program Assessment Report provides evidence that The University of Tulsa is satisfying its mission using information gained each academic year to evaluate the effectiveness of its academic programs and improvement of student learning. The review process also provides faculty with an opportunity to make programmatic and curriculum changes. Comprehensive Reviews All degree programs undergo comprehensive review. Law school reviews are guided by the American Bar Association (ABA) and their ABA accreditation. Graduate program review processes are described in the Graduate Program Review Guidelines. The newly formed Provost Program Review Committee has been charged with ensuring that TU’s academic programs enhance student learning and align with the University’s strategic priorities. This standing committee is tasked with evaluating all academic programs in all colleges at TU across a number of dimensions. The comprehensive undergraduate program review process involves all undergraduate academic programs to record and demonstrate achievement of program outcomes, student learning, retention, and degree completion. Programs are reviewed on a rotating basis. The requirement may be met either through external comprehensive program reviews conducted by specialized accreditation agencies or internal comprehensive program reviews conducted by college committees. Comprehensive undergraduate program reviews provide a mechanism for faculty and administration to evaluate the effectiveness, progress, and status of an academic program on a continuing basis through the feedback loop. Co-Curricular Assessment The University of Tulsa has a rich co-curricular environment that supports student learning and is assessed by direct and indirect measures. Co-curricular and student services programs are actively engaged in assessment and focus on the advancement of student learning through campus activities and services which contribute to the educational experience while supporting the University mission. Co-curricular learning activities are aligned with Institutional Learning Outcomes, creating a bridge between academic and student affairs. Co-curricular programming includes activities from the Division of Student Affairs, student clubs and organizations, fraternities and sororities, residence life, multicultural programming, community engagement, service learning, and the Department of Athletics. Institutional Outcome Assessment The University of Tulsa institutional assessment initiative, Institutional Outcome Assessment, uses direct assessment of students’ abilities to measure the accomplishment of institutional learning objectives. The following methods give feedback of student performance at multiple levels in various ways across the curriculum: The National Survey on Student Engagement (NSSE) and Faculty Survey on Student Engagement (FSSE) obtain experiential and perception information from freshmen, seniors, and the faculty who teach both groups. The Tulsa Curriculum assessment process evaluates student achievement of the Tulsa Curriculum Outcomes in Block and Core courses through foundational and comprehensive course assignments using a common Course Assessment Report. The Tulsa Curriculum is a university framework developed by faculty to advance broad knowledge and intellectual concepts, which the University believes every college student should acquire. HEIghtenTM scores are obtained from a standardized exam that is administered to students at the beginning and end of their undergraduate tenures. Student confidentiality is ensured by presenting test results in aggregate and by removing all identifiers from course-embedded artifacts prior to review. Student Evaluations Students are provided opportunities to give direct feedback to faculty about learning experiences at the course level through the end-of-semester course evaluations. Results of these activities are analyzed for trends and evidence of student growth and proficiency. Results are compared with national cohorts. Student confidentiality is maintained by removing identifiers from artifacts prior to analyzing data and presenting results to stakeholders. Collectively, these assessment activities provide faculty with a comprehensive picture of what is working well for students and faculty and areas where opportunities for improvement exist. For questions, please contact Monica Varner, Ph.D., Executive Director of University Assessment and Institutional Effectiveness, at 918-631-3263, continuousimprovement@utulsa.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT