Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Office of Title IX Compliance Title IX Coordinator Kathleen Smith Location Fisher West Room 203A Phone 918-631-2321 Email GET HELP NOW If you or anyone else is in immediate danger, call 911 or Campus Security at 918-631-5555. You can also speak to a Confidential Advocate at Domestic Violence Intervention Services anytime by calling 918-743-5763. File a Report with Title IX Coordinator Use CaneCares to report sex discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, and/or stalking to the Title IX Coordinator. Do not use this form to report an emergency or other urgent concern. Anonymous reports are permitted (unless you are a mandated reporter) but may limit the university’s ability to respond. GET INFORMED Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Title IX Policy Title IX Procedures Sex Discrimination Reporting Policy Pregnancy & Parenting Non-Discrimination Policy Notice of Rights under Title IX Non-Discrimination and Harassment Policy Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in the University’s educational programs and activities. TU is committed to providing an inclusive and welcoming educational and working environment for all members of its community. The University prohibits sex discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking. These behaviors are harmful to the well-being of our community members and our learning and working relationships. The University will respond to complaints or reports about such prohibited conduct with measures designed to stop and eliminate the prohibited conduct, prevent the recurrence of the prohibited conduct, and remedy any adverse effects of such conduct on campus or in University educational programs or activities. This site contains information for students, staff and faculty regarding Title IX resources and support services, policies, procedures, education and prevention programming at the university. Title IX Coordinator Kathleen Smith is the Title IX Coordinator at The University of Tulsa. She is responsible for coordinating the university’s efforts to comply with and carry out institutional responsibilities under Title IX, including promptly, thoroughly and equitably resolving reports of sexual misconduct to eliminate sexual or gender-based discrimination, prevent its recurrence, and remedy its effects. Reports or complaints of sexual or gender-based misconduct, or questions about TU’s policies, procedures, resources or programs, may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator. Email: titleix@utulsa.edu Phone: 918-631-2321 VAWA Handbook Reporting Options Students who have experienced, witnessed or have become aware of an incident of alleged sexual or gender-based misconduct have many options, including speaking with a Confidential Resource (see below), filing a report with the university, and filing a criminal complaint with police. Deciding among these options may be difficult, and students are encouraged to seek information from a Confidential Resource before deciding whether and how to proceed. Confidential Resources TU offers several confidential resources for students who do not wish to formally report sexual or gender-based misconduct to the university. The below services are available to students and will not result in a report being made to the Title IX Coordinator. Students are encouraged to make use of confidential resources when they are unsure about whether or not they want to report (or whether they are ready to report) sexual or gender-based misconduct to the university. Counseling and Psychological Services: 918-631-2200 Alexander Health Clinic: 918-631-2200 On-Campus Survivor Advocate: 918-631-2965 On-Campus Ordained Clergy and Chaplains contact Sharp Chapel at 918-631-2546 for a list of Campus Ministries and Churches, visit utulsa.edu/campus-ministries. Reporting to the University Students are encouraged to report sexual or gender-based misconduct directly to the Title IX Coordinator or a Deputy Title IX Coordinator, but may also report to any university employee who, in turn, will notify the Title IX Coordinator. University employees (with the exception of confidential resources) are mandated reporters and are required to disclose all details of a report (including the reporting party’s name) to the Title IX Coordinator. Alternately, students may submit an anonymous report directly to the Title IX Coordinator by using the University’s online reporting platform, CaneCares. When using CaneCares, a student may report as few or as many details as they prefer and may withhold identifying information. Anonymous reports may limit the university’s ability to respond to the report. Upon receipt of a report of sexual or gender-based misconduct, the Title IX Coordinator will: ascertain immediate safety needs of the reporting party and the campus community; advise the reporting party of their Title IX rights; connect the reporting party to requested campus and community resources; confirm whether the reporting party wishes to pursue or participate in a formal complaint against the accused; and determine whether the university has disciplinary jurisdiction over the accused. Reporting Externally The University process is separate and independent from the criminal process. Students are encouraged to file a report with police which will likely lead to a criminal investigation. If you would like support in notifying law enforcement authorities, University staff will assist you in doing so. You also have the option to decline notifying law enforcement. Students may report crimes directly to the Tulsa Police Department by calling 911 (emergency) or 918-596-9222 (non-emergency). Students may also report instances of sex and gender based discrimination directly to the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights at 1-800-421-3481 or by email to OCR@ed.gov. Medical Care If you’ve been sexually assaulted or experienced sexual violence, medical care may treat or prevent illness or injury. It is also an important way to preserve evidence, if you decide to press charges or to obtain assistance in applying for a protection order. For emergency care, contact 911 or Campus Security at 918-631-5555. To set up an exam with a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE), contact Domestic Violence Intervention Services (DVIS) at 918-743-5763. The Title IX Coordinator and Survivor Advocate (confidential) are available during business hours to assist students in setting up an appointment with a SANE nurse or to answer questions about the exam. Support Services The University is committed to providing ongoing support to students in connection with their experience, such as academic accommodations, housing modifications, employment modifications, free confidential counseling/psychological support, and access to free or low-cost healthcare options. Support Services are available to you even if you decide not to move forward with a formal complaint. Questions about a particular support service or student accommodation request may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator. Callisto The University of Tulsa is excited to announce the availability of Callisto, a free, third-party sexual assault prevention and protection resource for students. Callisto is a nonprofit organization that seeks to combat sexual assault and support survivors, and advance justice through technology. The Callisto online platform allows students to create an encrypted electronic record to privately store the details of an incident while they decide what to do next. If they choose to do so, survivors can also enter information about a perpetrator into a Matching System. If a “match” with another system entry is detected, survivors are connected to a Legal Options Counselor who can provide up to10 hours of free, confidential legal counseling. Callisto’s website also contains information on a range of resources and an Allies’ Guide, designed to help others support survivors. No information entered into the system is accessible to the University or Callisto staff, and the University is not notified when an account is created, a record is updated, or a “match” is identified. You can create an account today with the use of your @utulsa.edu email address. Internal Grievance Procedures The University of Tulsa is committed to providing a prompt, fair and impartial response to reports of Sex Discrimination pursuant to the University’s Title IX Policy. The University’s process for addressing Formal Complaints of Sex Discrimination are grounded in fairness and support for all parties and include procedural protections that ensure notice and meaningful opportunities to participate. Formal Complaints against students are addressed with reference to the Title IX Student Procedures. Formal Complaints against staff and faculty members are resolved with reference to the Title IX Employee Procedures. Conduct not specifically prohibited by the Title IX Policy may implicate other University policies and regulations. The University retains discretion to utilize other applicable policies and regulations, as appropriate. Education and Prevention The University is committed to providing the campus community with various programs throughout the academic year to educate people about recognizing and preventing sexual and gender-based harassment and misconduct. In addition to Violence Prevention Programming, the University educates students, staff, and faculty on Title IX rights and responsibilities, the sex discrimination reporting process, internal grievance procedures, as well as campus and community resources. To schedule a training, please contact the Title IX Coordinator. Faculty Resources Unless specifically exempted, all employees – including all faculty members – are required to report actual or suspected sex discrimination or harassment to the Title IX Coordinator in accordance with the University’s Sex Discrimination Reporting Policy and federal law. You may find it useful to provide language in syllabi to reflect your role as a mandatory reporter (see below). This may assist students in making an informed decision about sharing their personal experiences with you and other staff. You may also decide it is beneficial to review your role as a mandated reporter during the first day of class, to be transparent with students. If a student later discloses an incident of sexual or gender-based misconduct to you, you may review your role with the student again and continue to develop a trusting and supportive relationship, while upholding University policy and best practices. Model Language – Reporting Requirements “As a faculty member at The University of Tulsa, I am committed to facilitating a safe and inclusive learning environment for students. I also have mandatory reporting responsibilities. It is my goal that you feel able to share information related to your experiences during class discussions, in your written work or in meetings with me. I will keep the information you share with me as private as possible; however, as part of my job responsibilities, I am required to share information about sexual misconduct with the Title IX Coordinator. Students may speak with someone confidentially by contacting TUs Counseling and Psychological Services Center at 918-631-2200 or the 24/7 Domestic Violence Intervention Services Advocate hotline at 918-743-5763.” Model Language – Title IX Syllabi Language “Sexual misconduct is prohibited by Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972 (“Title IX”) and will not be tolerated within the TU community. Sexual misconduct encompasses all forms of sex and gender-based discrimination, harassment, abuse, violence, and assault, as well as unwelcome sexual conduct, dating violence, domestic violence, interpersonal violence, stalking, sexual coercion, exploitation and any act of retaliation based on a complaint of sexual misconduct. If you or someone you know has experienced any of these prohibited acts, or if you have questions about violence prevention resources available to you, please contact any of the following campus and community resources: Title IX Coordinator 918-631-2321 Survivor Advocate 918-631-2965 Office of Violence Prevention 918-631-2324 TU Counseling and Psychological Services 918- 631-2241 Campus Security 918-631-5555 Domestic Violence Intervention Services 918-585-3163 or 918-743-5763 Tulsa Police Department 918-596-9222 or 911 (emergency situations) For more information about your rights under Title IX, please visit our Policies and Laws page on the TU website or contact the Title IX Coordinator. Every student on our campus has the right to resources. Please come forward and ask questions, report, and help us eradicate sexual misconduct by stopping the silence surrounding it.” Inclusive Restroom Policy Inclusive Restroom Policy Effective Date: April 1, 2022 Supersedes: None Issuing Authority: University Compliance Responsible Officer: Title IX Coordinator I. Purpose April 1, 2022 None University Compliance Title IX Coordinator The University of Tulsa is committed to accessibility and inclusion in all aspects of its operations. Consistent with this commitment, the University supports the option of individuals to use the restroom that meets their individual needs or in which they feel safest. This Policy addresses access to restrooms that feel safe and comfortable to each individual, including considerations related to gender identity, those accompanied by a personal care attendant, and those with children. II. Application This Policy applies to all students, faculty, staff, and visitors on the University of Tulsa campus or other University property. III. Definition All Gender Restroom (AGR) refers to a restroom designated as inclusive of all genders. See the ADA Campus Map for AGR locations. IV. Policy Any individual on the TU campus and properties may use the restroom that feels safest and most comfortable to them. All Gender Restrooms provide a gender-inclusive option and may be used by individuals of any gender and gender identity. Additionally, no person shall be required to provide documentation of need, respond to invasive inquiries, or request ADA accommodation in order to access restroom facilities designated for use by a particular gender. Harassment or discrimination related to these accessibility guidelines is prohibited by University policy. Refer to the Title IX Policy and the Non-Discrimination and Harassment Policy for more information. Questions about the Inclusive Restroom Policy or complaints of harassment or discrimination may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator/Equal Opportunity Officer. V. Related Policies Title IX Policy Non-Discrimination and Harassment Policy Pregnancy and Parenting Non-Discrimination Policy for Students VI. Approval This Policy is approved by the undersigned and effective as of the date written below. Approved: Kathleen Smith, Title IX Coordinator/Equal Opportunity Officer Date Effective: 04/01/2022 Title IX Decision Maker Training Information regarding our Title IX Decision Maker Training can be found here. Other training materials include: Balancing Discretion and Fairness in Student Conduct Policies – March 3, 2021 Balancing Fairness and Exercising Discretion Part 2 Annual Title IX Training for Coordinators, Investigators and Title IX Team Members Title IX Decision Maker Training 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT