Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Outside Undergraduate Scholarships FINANCIAL AID Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Many foundations, organizations, companies and other entities offer various scholarships to students. In your Financial Aid Package, these are referred to as Outside Undergraduate Scholarships. Below is a listing of Outside Undergraduate Scholarship opportunities and other funding sources offered by entities outside of The University of Tulsa. The US Department of Labor has also created a website to assist in Scholarship searches. Please click here to access their website. DISCLAIMER: We accept no responsibility for the accuracy of the content contained in these websites. Armed Forces Scholarships Army ROTC Scholarships Award: Whether you’re a college-bound high school student or already attending a college or university, Army ROTC has scholarships available. Scholarships are awarded based on a student’s merit and grades, not financial need. Army ROTC Scholarships consist of two-, three-, and four-year scholarship options based on the time remaining to complete your degree. Please click here for more information or contact: colemald@oge.com Low VA Rates Military Scholarship Award: Twice a year, Low VA Rates awards two veterans, servicemembers, or dependents of an active-duty servicemember a $1,250 scholarship to help them pursue their education. Please click here for more information: www.lowvarates.com/2013-military-college-scholarship Navy Nurse Corps Award: The navy now pays up to $17,000 for the last two years of college to qualified nursing students. $5000 sign-on bonus available. Please click here for more information: www.navy.com Military Scholarships Award: Twice a year, as applications allow, we award two different veterans, servicemembers, or dependents of any active-duty servicemember of a $1,250 scholarship to help them pursue their education. https://lowvarates.com/scholarship// US Navy Health Profession Scholarship Program Award: The Navy offers scholarships for training in medical, dental and optometry and students have a guaranteed job upon graduation. More information about this program can be found here: https://www.navy.com/brochures Wells Fargo Veterans Scholarship Program Award: The Wells Fargo Veterans Scholarship Program provides scholarships to fill unmet financial needs of veterans after military benefits and other grants and scholarships have been packaged by their school. This financial support will allow veterans to focus on completing their education and reduce reliance on student loans. For more information, please click here: https://learnmore.scholarsapply.org/wellsfargoveterans/ College of Arts & Sciences Albert K. Murray Fine Arts Educational Fund Award: Grants are available to students on a quarterly basis. Students must be US citizens and registered as a full time student in an art degree program for the term a grant is received. The student may be at the bachelor’s, master’s, or doctoral level. Student’s GPA must be 2.5 or above. Due Date: End of September grants (applications due July 31), end of December grants (applications due October 31), end of March grants (applications due January 31), and end of June grants (applications due April 30). For additional information and/or an application packet contact: Dr. Marion C. Gilliland, Chair Scholarship Committee Phone: 740-796-4797 Fax: 740-796-4799 Degree Directory Academic Business Scholarship Award: Learn.org provides financial assistance to undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing bachelor level degrees in the fields of anthropology, sociology, psychology, political science, economics, history and social sciences. For more information, please click here: https://learn.org/pages/Social_Sciences_Bachelors_Degree_Scholarship.html The Sumners Foundation The Sumners Foundation is pleased to announce that the application process for At-Large Sumners Scholarships is now open for rising juniors for their junior and senior years at a Texas or Oklahoma college or university. Students must be U.S. citizens and permanent residents of TX, OK, NM, LA, AR, KS, MO or NE. The foundation is specifically looking for students who in their vocation or avocation will help further the democratic process. Award: $15,000 per year for each of the last two years of undergraduate study ($30,000 total). For more information, please click here: https://www.sumnersfoundation.org/scholarships/ TC Energy Scholarships TC Energy offers three different types of scholarships: Scholarships for Trades students Scholarships for STEM focused students Indigenous Legacy Scholarships – Meant for students from the Tribes where TC Energy does business and is open to students in any post-secondary program. Award: Scholarships awarded up to $5,000. For more information, please click here: https://www.tcenergy.com/community-giving/scholarships/US/#criteria Tenshon Scholarship Award: Tenshon offers scholarship opportunities for students who like to be awarded for putting their brains to work. Each year, students who are interested in the fields of architecture, design and/or engineering, research and design the possibilities found in the tensile fabric industry. The award is for $1,500 per semester. For more information and design details, please visit: www.tenshon.com/scholarship.html College of Business Accounting & Financial Women’s Alliance (AFWA) Award: The AFWA Tulsa Chapter is proud to announce a scholarship up to $3,000 for Finance and Accounting students who meet the criteria set forth. More information can be found here: https://www.afwa.org/scholarships/. Degree Directory Academic Business Scholarship Award: Learn.org provides financial assistance to undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing bachelor level degrees related to business management, information systems management, marketing, finance, accounting, human resource management and entrepreneurship. For more information, please click here: degreedirectory.org/pages/business_scholarship.html GFOA Scholarships Award: GFOA provides several scholarship opportunities for students interested in pursuing a career in state/provincial or local government finance. There are 11 different scholarships offered ranging from $5,000 to $20,000. Eligility: Students must be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States or Canada, must plan to pursue a career in state/provincial or local government finance and cannot be a past winner of a GFOA scholarship. For more information, please click here: https://www.gfoa.org/gfoa-scholarships Lighted Pathways Scholarship and Internship Award: Light a pathway to a successful future working as an investment, asset or financial manager! This opportunity hopes to expose interested African-American students to finance professions, asset management, and careers in the Boston, Massachusetts area. This opportunity has been broken into two parts: a scholarship and an internship. Please click here for more information on the scholarship and click here for more information on the internship. Eligibility: Rising sophomores or juniors; must have a 2.7 gpa or higher; enrolled at a four year institution and must be African-American or Identify as African-American. Minorities in Government Finance Scholarship Award: GFOA provides several scholarship opportunities for students interested in pursuing a career in state/provincial or local government finance. Encouraging and supporting educational opportunities for future government finance officers are integral to our mission of promoting best practices in local government. Eligibility: Must be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States or Canada and plan to pursue a career in state/provincial or local government finance. Additional criteria and more information on this scholarship can be found here: https://www.gfoa.org/gfoa-scholarships National Science Foundation, National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics Award: The National Science Foundation, National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics provides policy makers and the public high-quality information on the science and engineering enterprise. This internship is for a wide variety of fields including, but not limited to: Business Management, Communication and Graphic Design, Computer Sciences, Economics, Marketing, Mathematics and Statistics, and Survey Methodology. This internship is located in Alexandria, VA. You will receive a competitive stipend for living and other expenses. More information and the program application can be found here: NCSES Research Ambassadors Program. NCSES Research Ambassadors Program Opportunity Award: Are you looking for real world experience in cutting edge research from the world’s premier source for data and information in the science and engineering enterprise. As a participant with NCSES, you’ll receive a competitive stipend determined by your academic standing, discipline, and experience. More information and the program application can be found here: NCSES Research Ambassadors Program North American Van Lines Award: North American Van Lines is committed to supporting the community as well as the growth and development of the moving services and logistics industries. They are proud to award three qualified entrants a $1,000 Scholarship towards their degree. More information can be found here: http://www.northamerican.com/scholarship WTS Oklahoma Award: WTS Oklahoma is offering two different scholarships to undergraduate students that are currently enrolled in an undergraduate degree program in a transportation-related field, such as transportation engineering, planning, finance, or logistics and have plans to pursue a career in a transportation related field. This scholarship also has the opportunity for renewal for a 2nd year, with renewal application. For more information, please contact Jessica Gay, Scholarship Chair at 405.267.1281 or email jessica.gay@freese.com 2020 WTS Scholarship Flyer WTS Oklahoma Application Sharon Banks Scholarship 2020 WTS Oklahoma Application Molitoris Scholarship 2020 College of Health Sciences The Adam Ferrari Health Science Scholarship Award: The Adam Ferrari Health Science Scholarship empowers students who wish to study health science in college with the goal of providing better care for patients with physical disabilities. To apply for this $1,000 scholarship, eligible students must submit a 1000-word essay and meet the eligibility requirements. Applicants must be a high school senior that has already been accepted into an accredited college or university, or a current student enrolled at an accredited college or university full-time. Students must be pursuing a degree in health science and be interested in providing care for patients with physical disabilities in the future. Students must have a minimum GPA of 3.5. More information can be found here: https://www.adamferrarischolarship.com/. American Indians in Health Professions Preparatory Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in a compensatory/pre-professional general education course or curriculum, that will prepare them for acceptance into a health profession. Must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in one of the following priority career categories: Pre-Dietetics, Pre-Engineering, Pre-Medical Technology, Pre-Nursing, Pre-Pharmacy, Pre-Physical Therapy, or Pre-Social Work. Pre-Graduate Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in courses leading to a bachelor’s degree in specific pre-professional areas. Must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in one of the following priority career categories: Pre-Medicine or Pre-Dentistry. Health Professions Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in courses for specific health professions. This program requires a service obligation and/or payback requirement that the recipient incurs upon acceptance of the scholarship funding. For additional information and/or an application packet contact: Area Scholarship Coordinator Oklahoma City Area Indian Health Service HC 67, Box 132 Marietta, OK 73448 Phone: 580-276-5983 or 800-829-7044 Bartlesville Community Foundation Award: $10,000 per year Eligibility: Beginning in 2021, The Bartlesville Community Foundation will award multiple $10,000 scholarships to applicants who meet the criteria and are pursuing Nurse Anesthesiology or Chemistry/Chemical Engineering (at any level). Note: Students must have graduated high school from a Bartlesville / Dewey area home/high school. For additional information: http://bartlesvillecf.org/files/2020/06/Glenn-and-Anne-Dodwell-Memorial-Scholarship-Application-2021.pdf Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation Award: The Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation was established by Congress in 1986 to serve as a living memorial to honor the lifetime work of Senator Barry Goldwater, who served his country for 56 years as a soldier and statesman, including 30 years in the U.S. Senate. The Foundation looks to select students who have the potential to become tomorrow’s research leaders. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://goldwater.scholarsapply.org/ Foundation of the National Student Nurses’ Association, Inc. Award: Undergraduate scholarships are available to students currently enrolled in a state-approved nursing program leading to an associate degree, baccalaureate, diploma, direct-entry master’s degree, RN to BSN/MSN completion, LPN/LVN to RN, or accelerated programs. Eligibility: Students must be pre-nursing students taking courses to prepare for matriculation into a nursing program who are US Citizens or Aliens with a US Permanent Resident Status / Alien Registration Number. Students must establish financial need. High school students are not eligible to apply. More information can be found here: https://app.mykaleidoscope.com/scholarship/fnsna MedEvac Foundation International Scholarships Award: The MedEvac Foundation provides continuing education scholarships to helicopter air ambulance (HAA), fixed wing and critical care transport professionals. The MedEvac Foundation offers a variety of grants, safety initiatives, training and scholarships. Please click here for more information: https://medevacfoundation.org/professional-education-scholarships/ National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program Award: Students pursuing a career in primary health care are eligible to receive funding for their education in exchange for practicing in rural, urban, and tribal communities with limited access to care, upon graduation and licensure. The award includes funding for a maximum of 4 years of tuition, required fees, reasonable education costs and a monthly support stipend. Please click here for more information: https://nhsc.hrsa.gov/scholarships/prospective-scholars/index.html National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Award: The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases has established the Emerging Leaders in Data Science Fellowship to develop a cadre of talented data scientists who have a strong interest in applying their informatics and data science expertise to advance research in infectious and immune-mediated diseases. Master’s or Doctoral degree in related fields must be received before starting. Stipend: $80,990 – $91,958 annually; 100% Health Insurance; Travel & Training Allowance. More information and the program application can be found here: https://www.zintellect.com/Opportunity/Details/NIH-NIAID-DataScienceFellowship-2021. NCSES Research Ambassadors Program Opportunity Award: Are you looking for real world experience in cutting edge research from the world’s premier source for data and information in the science and engineering enterprise. As a participant with NCSES, you’ll receive a competitive stipend determined by your academic standing, discipline, and experience. More information and the program application can be found here: NCSES Research Ambassadors Program Novus Biologicals Scholarship Program Award: The Novus Biologicals Scholarship is for students pursuing education in a science related field (Life Science, Medical Science, Health Science). A $1,500 scholarship will be awarded to one student for the fall and spring semesters. More information about this program can be found here: https://www.novusbio.com/scholarship-program.html Nurse Corps Scholarship Program Award: Eligible nursing students can apply to the Nurse Corps Scholarship Program. If accepted, they pay the students’ tuition, fees and other educational costs. In return, upon graduation, the student will work at a Critical Shortage Facility (CSF). More information about this program can be found here: https://bhw.hrsa.gov/funding/apply-scholarship/nurse-corps TC Energy Scholarships TC Energy offers three different types of scholarships: Scholarships for Trades students Scholarships for STEM focused students Indigenous Legacy Scholarships – Meant for students from the Tribes where TC Energy does business and is open to students in any post-secondary program. Award: Scholarships awarded up to $5,000. For more information, please click here: https://www.tcenergy.com/community-giving/scholarships/US/#criteria US Navy Health Profession Scholarship Program Award: The Navy offers scholarships for training in medical, dental and optometry and students have a guaranteed job upon graduation. More information about this program can be found here: https://www.navy.com/brochures College of Engineering & Natural Sciences Amazon’s Black Employee Network College Scholarship Award: Amazon’s Black Employee Network (BEN) Scholarship is a new program designed to promote accessibility to higher education for high school students of Black or African descent. BEN is awarding 10 eligible high school students a $5,000/year ($20,000 total over 4 years) to make the most of their education. Eligibility: Student must be a US Citizen or permanent resident of Black or African descent, graduating high school in 2021 or recently graduated in 2020. Student must have an unweighted gpa of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Please click here for more information: https://learnmore.scholarsapply.org/amazonBEN/ Bartlesville Community Foundation Award: $10,000 per year Eligibility: Beginning in 2021, The Bartlesville Community Foundation will award multiple $10,000 scholarships to applicants who meet the criteria and are pursuing Nurse Anesthesiology or Chemistry/Chemical Engineering (at any level). Note: Students must have graduated high school from a Bartlesville / Dewey area home/high school. Please click here for more information: http://bartlesvillecf.org/files/2020/06/Glenn-and-Anne-Dodwell-Memorial-Scholarship-Application-2021.pdf Chevron / AISES Scholarship Program Award: The American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) helps students move forward in their educational journeys by providing a wide range of programs and scholarship opportunities. Students will complete a general application profile that will automatically match students only with the scholarship opportunities they are eligible for. Please click here for more information: https://www.aises.org/students/scholarships Desk and Derrick Educational Trust Award: The Desk and Derrick Educational Trust (ET) was created in 1982 for the purpose of awarding annual scholarships to students attending accredited colleges and universities offering degrees related to the petroleum, energy and allied industries. Eligibility: Students must have completed at least two years or be currently enrolled in their second year of undergraduate study at an accredited college or university. The student must be a full-time student with US citizenship, maintaining a grade point average of 3.2 or above on a 4.0 grading scale, demonstrate financial need and plan a career in the petroleum, energy or allied industry or research and development of alternative fuels such as coal, electric, solar, wind hydroelectric, nuclear and ethanol. Please click here for more information: http://theeducationaltrust.org/ DoD SMART Scholarship Award: The Science, Mathematics, and Research for Transformation (SMART) Scholarship Service Program is an opportunity for students pursuing a bachelor’s master’s or Ph.D. in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines to receive a full scholarship and guaranteed civilian employment with the Department of Defense upon degree completion. More information and the scholarship application can be found here: SMART Scholarship. DoE Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy (EERE) Robotics Internship Program Award: This is a 10-week summer internship program for students majoring in a field related to robotics. The program provides opportunities for high school seniors, undergraduate and graduate students and postgraduates to intern at federal national laboratories throughout the United States. More information and the scholarship application can be found here: DoE Robotics Internship Program DoE Scholars Program Award: US citizens pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree, or a student who has received their degree within 5 years of their starting date in a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics (STEM) discipline or have demonstrated interest or experience in a STEM field that supports the DOE missions can apply for this Scholars Program. More information and the application can be found here: DOE Scholars Application. Department of Homeland Security Transportation Security Laboratory Internship Award: The US Dept of Homeland Security Transportation Security Laboratory is offering summer internships for undergraduate and graduate students. As an intern, you will have access to unique facilities and subject matter experts in explosives detection and mitigation; receive hands-on experiences that will provide you with an understanding of the mission, operations and research; enhance your academic and professional preparation to pursue a career in disciplines that support the US Dept of Homeland Security. Click here for more information about the Transportation Security Laboratory and click here to apply for an internship. Deputy Scholarship for Women in Technology Award: Deputy is invested in building a more diverse and inclusive technology industry, which is essential for high-performing teams and innovation. This is a $2,000 scholarship awarded to a female in a technology major, aimed at reducing their day-to-day financial obstacles. Please click here for more information: https://www.deputy.com/deputy-scholarship International School of Hydrocarbon Measurement Memorial Scholarship Award: The International School of Hydrocarbon Measurement has been actively focused on the education and training of measurement and control personnel at all levels in the Oil and Gas Industry. The ISHM Scholarship Committee selects recipients from a list of qualified candidates from participating universities. Scholarship awards may be of any size and may be made to any number of students during any given time. Please click here for more information about the scholarship. Please click here to download the Scholarship Application. Mathematical Sciences Graduate Internship Award: Learn the application of advanced mathematical and statistical techniques to “real world” problems, whether you plan to pursue an academic or nonacademic career! Benefits: Up to $1,200 per week stipend, relocation up to $2,000. Eligibility: Full time doctoral student pursuing mathematics, statistics or applied math. Minimum of a 3.00 gpa. More information and the scholarship application can be found here: https://zintellect.com/Opportunity/Details/NSF-MSGI-2022 Mickey Leland Energy Fellowship (MLEF) Program Award: The Mickey Leland Energy Fellowship (MLEF) Program provides students with educational opportunities to gain real-world, hands-on research experience with the Department of Energy’ (DOE) Office of Fossil Energy. The MLEF program was created with the goal of improving opportunities for under-represented and minority students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. More information and the scholarship application can be found here: https://orise.orau.gov/mlef/ NCSES Research Ambassadors Program Opportunity Award: Are you looking for real world experience in cutting edge research from the world’s premier source for data and information in the science and engineering enterprise. As a participant with NCSES, you’ll receive a competitive stipend determined by your academic standing, discipline, and experience. More information and the program application can be found here: NCSES Research Ambassadors Program National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Award: The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases has established the Emerging Leaders in Data Science Fellowship to develop a cadre of talented data scientists who have a strong interest in applying their informatics and data science expertise to advance research in infectious and immune-mediated diseases. Master’s or Doctoral degree in related fields must be received before starting. Stipend: $80,990 – $91,958 annually; 100% Health Insurance; Travel & Training Allowance. More information and the program application can be found here: https://www.zintellect.com/Opportunity/Details/NIH-NIAID-DataScienceFellowship-2021. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) Award: The NIEHS Scholars Connect Program is designed to provide a unique opportunity for highly motivated science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) focused undergraduate students. Students will have an opportunity for hands-on mentored research experiences, as well as professional and personal development. More information and the program application can be found here: NIEHS Scholars Connect Program. National Science Foundation, National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics Award: The National Science Foundation, National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics provides policy makers and the public high-quality information on the science and engineering enterprise. This internship is for a wide variety of fields including, but not limited to: Business Management, Communication and Graphic Design, Computer Sciences, Economics, Marketing, Mathematics and Statistics, and Survey Methodology. This internship is located in Alexandria, VA. You will receive a competitive stipend for living and other expenses. More information and the program application can be found here: NCSES Research Ambassadors Program. Novus Biologicals Scholarship Program Award: The Novus Biologicals Scholarship is for students pursuing education in a science related field (Life Science, Medical Science, Health Science). A $1,500 scholarship will be awarded to one student for the fall and spring semesters. More information about this program can be found here: https://www.novusbio.com/scholarship-program.html OERB Petroleum Scholar Program Criteria: The OERB Petroleum Scholar Program grants scholarships to undergraduate students pursuing careers in the petroleum industry. Students must maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.75 (on a 4.0 scale) and be enrolled full-time in Petroleum Engineering, Geosciences or Energy Management. More information and the program application can be found here: OERB Petroleum Scholarship Program. Oklahoma Gas Association Scholarship Criteria: The Oklahoma Gas Association offers an annual scholarship in the amount of $1,000 to assist a deserving High School Senior with tuition, books, fees, or other related expenses. Eligibility: The student must have a minimum of a 3.0 grade point average and must be a dependent child, grandchild, or ward of an employee or retiree of an OGA member company in good standing. More information and the program application can be found here: https://okgas.org/Scholarship SIPES Foundation Scholarship Applications The SIPES Foundation has awarded scholarships to more than 220 outstanding earth science and engineering students since it was founded in 1981. Applications are accepted each year from currently enrolled, upper-division or graduate students majoring in any earth science, petroleum or geological engineering, who have an overall grade point average of 3.0 or higher and are U.S. Citizens. For more information, please click here: www.sipes.org Society of American Military Engineers (SAME) Award: The Society of American Military Engineers (SAME) is pleased to award two separate Scholarships. The JD Metcalfe College Scholarship: This $2,000 scholarship is awarded to three college Junior or Senior students majoring in Engineering, Biological Sciences and Physical Sciences programs. Please click here for more information: http://www.sametulsa.org/scholarship.html The Justin Noyes High School Scholarship: This $2,000 scholarship is awarded to three High School Seniors who intend to earn a degree in engineering, biological science or physical science. Please click here for more information: http://www.sametulsa.org/scholarship.html Society of Petroleum Engineers – Fort Worth Section The Fort Worth Section of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) is offering scholarships to undergraduate students that are from the North Texas area and that are pursuing a degree in petroleum engineering or related field. Scholarships of up to $3,000 per year are awarded annually and (once awarded) may be renewed through the recipient’s senior year in college. Eligibility: Students must be enrolling in and maintaining a full-time status in a curriculum leading to a degree in petroleum engineering or related program that will lead to a career in the Oil and Gas Industry. Students must also achieve a minimum of a 3.0 on a 4.0 scale each semester and must be from the Tarrant County (NorthTexas) or surrounding area. More information can be found here:https://connect.spe.org/fortworth/scholarships/scholarships Society of Women Engineers Award: The Society of Women Engineers (SWE) provides financial assistance to those who identify as a female/woman and are studying community college / baccalaureate or graduate programs in preparation for careers in engineering, engineering technology and computer science. Please click here for more information: https://scholarships.swe.org/applications/login.asp Tenshon Scholarship Award: Tenshon offers scholarship opportunities for students who like to be awarded for putting their brains to work. Each year, students who are interested in the fields of architecture, design and/or engineering, research and design the possibilities found in the tensile fabric industry. The award is for $1,500 per semester. For more information and design details, please visit: www.tenshon.com/scholarship.html TC Energy Scholarships TC Energy offers three different types of scholarships: Scholarships for Trades students Scholarships for STEM focused students Indigenous Legacy Scholarships – Meant for students from the Tribes where TC Energy does business and is open to students in any post-secondary program. Award: Scholarships awarded up to $5,000. For more information, please click here: https://www.tcenergy.com/community-giving/scholarships/US/#criteria Thermo Scientific Pierce Scholarship Program Awards: ThermoFisher Scientific wants to ensure future generations of science scholars through scholarship funding to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled in an accredited college or university for the year in which they are applying for. Students must have a declared major of biology, chemistry, bio-chemistry or a related life science field and must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. For more information, please visit: www.pierce-antibodies.com/PierceScholarship Truman D. Picard Scholarship Program The Truman D. Picard Scholarship Program is dedicated to the support of Native American students pursuing a higher education in Natural Resources. Please click here for more information and how to apply. Award: $2,500 for college students, $2,500 for graduate students and college seniors that are applying/accepted for graduate school, $2,000 for graduating high school students. U.S. Department of Energy’s Geothermal Technologies Program and Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education Award: The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education administers a variety of STEM internship and fellowship programs for undergraduate students at national laboratories and other federal research facilities across the United State. They offer summer, fall, and spring internships, as well as other longer term research opportunities to provide a hands-on laboratory experience. For more information, please click here: https://orise.orau.gov/internships-fellowships/undergraduates.html Women in Aerospace Foundation Award: The WIA Foundation is pleased to provide scholarships to women interested in a career in the aerospace field to pursue higher education degrees in engineering, math or science. One or more awards will be given each year to a rising senior in college, but to be applied during the upcoming academic year. Eligibility: Applicants must be interested in pursuing a career in the aerospace field and be a rising junior or senior working towards a bachelor’s degree in engineering, math or science. Applicants must be female of any nationality and have a college grade point average of a 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. For more information, please click here: https://www.womeninaerospacefoundation.org/foundation/ WTS Oklahoma Award: WTS Oklahoma is offering two different scholarships to undergraduate students that are currently enrolled in an undergraduate degree program in a transportation-related field, such as transportation engineering, planning, finance, or logistics and have plans to pursue a career in a transportation related field. This scholarship also has the opportunity for renewal for a 2nd year, with renewal application. For more information, please contact Jessica Gay, Scholarship Chair at 405.267.1281 or email jessica.gay@freese.com 2020 WTS Scholarship Flyer WTS Oklahoma Application Sharon Banks Scholarship 2020 WTS Oklahoma Application Molitoris Scholarship 2020 General Scholarships Abbott & Fenner Award: Abbott & Fenner, a leader in the consulting industry, is committed to helping those who have the desire and ambition to succeed. Eligibility: The A&F Scholarships are available to all high school juniors and seniors, as well as all students currently registered in any accredited post secondary institution. Please click here for more information: https://abbottandfenner.com/scholarships.php AES Engineering – General Scholarship Award: AES Engineering is pleased to be able to continue offering scholarships to motivated students to help in the furthering of their education. Eligibility: It is the belief of AES that achieving a high grade point average should not be the only criteria for determining who deserves to be helped. For that reason, they offer a scholarship that is awarded on the basis of character, as determined by an evaluation of the essays that are submitted. Please click here for more information: https://aesengineers.com/scholarships.php ASIST – General Scholarship Award: The EWI of Tulsa’s Adult Students in Scholastic Transition Scholarship will be awarding five scholarships in the amount of $2,000 each to non-traditional students. Eligibility: The ASIST Scholarship is a non-discriminatory, educational scholarship program for the benefit of nontraditional students pursuing an associates, bachelor, or master’s degree, or a technical/professional certificate. Selection criteria may include the following: Financial need, socially/physically/economically challenged adults; preference is given to those individuals with children residing in the home. Please click here for more information: https://app.mykaleidoscope.com/scholarship/asist Aspire of Green Country Oklahoma Award: $500/semester Eligibility: The student must be a high school or GED graduate and a resident of Osage, Wagoner, Creek, Rogers or Okmulgee counties. The student must be a single head of household (single, legally separated, divorced, widowed) and not co-habiting with ex-spouse, current spouse or partner; with sole custody of one or more children under the age of 21; The student must be pursuing a career-oriented course of study (full-time) and must not have already earned an undergraduate degree. The student must be a recipient of a Pell grant and have a low income at or near the current U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Service Income Guidelines poverty level. Deadline: Fall: August 20th; Spring: October 31st. For additional information, please call 866-973-0805 or email christine@aspireus.org. B. Davis Scholarship Award: This scholarship is available to all high school juniors and seniors, as well as all students currently registered in any post secondary institution. For more information and how to apply, please click here: http://www.studentawardsearch.com/scholarships.htm Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation Award: The Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation was established by Congress in 1986 to serve as a living memorial to honor the lifetime work of Senator Barry Goldwater, who served his country for 56 years as a soldier and statesman, including 30 years in the U.S. Senate. The Foundation looks to select students who have the potential to become tomorrow’s research leaders. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://goldwater.scholarsapply.org/ Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program Award: The US Department of State’s Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship is a grant program that enables students of limited financial means to study or intern abroad, thereby gaining skills critical to our national security and economic competitiveness. Eligibility: The Gilman Scholarship Program is open to U.S. citizen undergraduate students who are receiving Pell Grant funding at a two-year or four-year college or university to participate in study and intern abroad programs worldwide. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://www.iie.org/gilman Earnest Scholarship Award: The Earnest Company works with students and their families to apply for or refinance their student loans. For each loan refinanced, they put a percentage of the loan into the Earnest Scholarship to help students realize their hopes and dreams through further education. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://www.earnest.com/student-loans/scholarship FindAnsweringService.com Scholarship Award: The Find Answering Service company is offering a $1,000 Scholarship to a student enrolled or due to be enrolled as a full-time student at an accredited US college or university. Applicants are not required to have a minimum grade point average. Domestic, international and undocumented students may apply. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://findansweringservice.com/connectivity-scholarship/ GE-Reagan Foundation Scholarship Award: The GE-Reagan Foundation Scholarship Program rewards college-bound students who demonstrate exemplary leadership, drive, integrity and citizenship with financial assistance to pursue higher education. Each year, the Program selects numerous recipients to receive a $10,000 scholarship renewable for up to an additional three years – up to $40,000 total per recipient. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://www.reaganfoundation.org/education/scholarship-programs/ge-reagan-foundation-scholarship-program/ Great Value Schools Scholarship Award: Great Value Colleges believes that community service has the potential to enhance the value of a college education in profound ways. Community Service helps build empathy and compassion and provides skills such as networking, organization, project management, team building, and problem solving – all skills that are essential in today’s workforce. Great Value Colleges wants to encourage participation in Community Service by awarding a $1,500 Community Service Scholarship to students who show exceptional passion for community service and who’ve found concrete ways to enhance their education through service. Please click here for more information: https://www.greatvaluecolleges.net/community-service-scholarship/ Horatio Alger State Scholarship Award: The Horatio Alger Association funds need-based college scholarships for low-income youth to pursue their dreams through higher education. The State Scholarship is awarded to eligible students in all 50 states, who have specifically faced and overcame great obstacles in their young lives. Eligibility: Applicants must be a US Citizen, enrolled full time as a high school senior in the United States and have plans to enter a college no later than the fall following graduation. Students must demonstrate critical financial need, be involved in co-curricular and community service activities, display integrity and perseverance in overcoming adversity and maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.0. For more information and how to apply, please click here: https://scholars.horatioalger.org/about-our-scholarship-programs/state-scholarships/ Jaycee Foundation of Oklahoma Scholarship Award: $500 Eligibility: Applicants must be a US Citizen, a resident of the state of Oklahoma, demonstrate financial need and be 18 years of age or older and will have graduated high school prior to December 31, 2021. For more information, please visit their website here. To download and complete the application please click here. Junior League of Tulsa – Founders Scholarship Award: Two scholarships up to $2,500 to women who meet the following eligibility requirements: Attend a high school in the Tulsa area (Tulsa, Rogers, Wagoner, Osage, Creek or Okmulgee counties); maintain at least a 3.0 cumulative grade point average (GPA) based on a 4.0 scale; be a female, high school senior; exhibit a commitment to volunteering; and may not be an immediate relative of a Junior League of Tulsa member or sustainer. Please click here for more information: https://www.jltulsa.org/community/programs/apply-for-scholarship/ Junior League of Tulsa – Mrs. W. Albert Cook Scholarship Award: Two scholarships up to $2,500 to women interested in furthering their education as “non-traditional students” at an accredited college, university or technical trade school. The recipients will be selected based upon their commitment to their education and demonstrated financial need. Please click here for more information: https://www.jltulsa.org/community/programs/apply-for-scholarship/ Mesothelioma.com Scholarship Award: Mesothelioma.com is proud to award $4,000 to one student whose life has been impacted by cancer. The purpose of this scholarship is to provide financial assistance to college students in their pursuit of higher education. If you’ve battled a form of cancer yourself, or witnessed a loved one receiving treatment, please click here for more information: https://www.mesothelioma.com/scholarship/ NSF Fellowship Opportunity – Survey Researcher Award: The National Science Foundation (NSF), National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics (NCSES) provides policy makers and the public high-quality information on the science and engineering enterprise. As part of the fellowship, you will identify or draft measurement items, test these measures, and ultimately field a fully tested questionnaire on an online panel of respondents to generate data for a future Public Perceptions of Science (PPS) chapter in NCSES Science and Engineering Indicators (SEIs). You will draft measurements of a respondent’s level of science literacy, exposure to science, science information-seeking behaviors, and attitudes towards science. Applicants must be 18 years of age or older at the time of application and have received a Doctoral degree from an accredited college or university in a survey analysis related discipline. If you are currently pursuing a doctoral degree, degree must be received by May 2022. For more information, please click here: https://orise.orau.gov/ncses/ Office of Technology Transitions Entrepreneurship Program, U.S. Dept of Energy (DOE) The DOE OTT Entrepreneurship Program gives students the opportunity to participate in research, technical or policy-related projects under the mentorship of technology transfer specialists and OTT staff. They will come away with a better understanding of how technology transitions from the lab into practice, and gain insight into how this is influenced by the policies created and implemented by our federal government. Award: This is a fantastic opportunity for students who see themselves as entrepreneurs as well as scientists or engineers to expand their skills outside the classroom and beyond pure science and engineering…and get paid $700 / week to do it! If eligible, students may also receive up to $1,000 for inbound and outbound transportation expenses and a stipend supplement of $150/week. Eligibility: Candidates must be a U.S. citizen or a permanent resident, must be at least 18 years old by June 1, 2022, and must be enrolled as a full-time undergraduate student pursuing a degree in science, technology, mathematics, engineering, or business with an interest in entrepreneurship and technology commercialization. For more information, please visit https://orise.orau.gov/ott-entrepreneurship-program/. Oklahoma City Community Foundation Award: The Oklahoma City Community Foundation manages more than 200 scholarships. The Scholarships have various requirements and deadlines. For more information, please visit their website at: https://www.occf.org/scholarships/ Patti Johnson Wilson Foundation The Patti Johnson Wilson Foundation grants scholarships to full-time undergraduate students majoring in Music, Engineering, or Liberal Arts (Anthropology, Classics, English, History, Languages, Literature, Philosophy or Sociology). In granting scholarships, the Foundation trustees consider the academic record, financial need, professor’s letter of recommendation and the applicant’s desire to supplement their college expenses through part-time employment. The MINIMUM undergraduate gpa is 3.5 (on a 4.0 scale). Award: The typical scholarship awards range between $5,000 to $6,000 per academic year. Please click here to download the application. Please note that all applications must be received by the Financial Aid Office by March 18, 2022 for processing. Presbyterian Scholarship for Undergraduates Award: The Presbyterian Mission Agency provides scholarships to up to 120 college students per year. Eligible applicants will be PCUSA church members seeking a first associates or bachelors’ degree and attending an accredited college or university in the United States. Please click here for more information: https://www.presbyterianmission.org/ministries/theology-formation-and-evangelism/financialaid/undergraduate-opportunities/ Scholarship America https://scholarshipamerica.org/ SallieMae Scholarship Search www.SallieMae.com/ScholarshipSearch Stephen J. Brady Stop Hunger Scholarship Award: This program recognizes students who are finding creative solutions to eliminate hunger in America. Students from Kindergarten through graduate school are eligible to apply for a $5,000 scholarship with a matching $5,000 grant to the hunger-related charity of their choice. Please click here for more information: SodexoFoundation.org Sumners Scholars Scholarship Award: The Sumners Foundation provides scholarships for rising juniors for their junior and senior years at a Texas or Oklahoma College or University. Scholarships are $15,000 / year for each of those last two years of undergraduate work to cover tuition, on-campus room and board, fees, and books. Students must be US citizens and permanent residents of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Arkansas or Kansas. The application for the At-Large Sumners Scholarship is located on their website: www.sumnersfoundation.org. The pool of applications will be narrowed down and interviews will be conducted in May of 2022. The application deadline is April 19, 2022 at 5:00pm. Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP) Scholarship Award: The Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP) believes in doing all it can to help those within the industry with their educational pursuits. WiNUP currently has three fellowships available to women pursuing advanced degrees (beyond a bachelor’s degree), which will lead to careers in the utility industry or allied fields. Relevant fields must relate to a career in a utility related profession, such as engineering, business administration, accounting, environmental sciences, communication, information technologies, and so on. Click here for more information and how to apply. Minority Scholarships Amazon’s Black Employee Network College Scholarship Award: Amazon’s Black Employee Network (BEN) Scholarship is a new program designed to promote accessibility to higher education for high school students of Black or African descent. BEN is awarding 10 eligible high school students a $5,000/year ($20,000 total over 4 years) to make the most of their education. Eligibility: Student must be a US Citizen or permanent resident of Black or African descent, graduating high school in 2021 or recently graduated in 2020. Student must have an unweighted gpa of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Please click here for more information: https://learnmore.scholarsapply.org/amazonBEN/ American Indian Graduate Center American Indian Graduate Center (AIGC) is currently accepting scholarship applications for the 2022-2023 academic year. AIGC offers many curated scholarships, up to $30,000, for Native students pursuing undergraduate, graduate, and professional degrees. Student applications are due by June 1. For more information, please visit: https://app.smarterselect.com/matching/1346/start_page American Indians in Health Professions Preparatory Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in a compensatory/pre-professional general education course or curriculum, that will prepare them for acceptance into a health profession. Must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in one of the following priority career categories: Pre-Dietetics, Pre-Engineering, Pre-Medical Technology, Pre-Nursing, Pre-Pharmacy, Pre-Physical Therapy, or Pre-Social Work. Pre-Graduate Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in courses leading to a bachelor’s degree in specific pre-professional areas. Must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in one of the following priority career categories: Pre-Medicine or Pre-Dentistry. Health Professions Scholarship Program – Provides financial assistance to Federally or State recognized American Indian or Alaska Native Students enrolled full or part-time in courses for specific health professions. This program requires a service obligation and/or payback requirement that the recipient incurs upon acceptance of the scholarship funding. For additional information and/or an application packet contact: Area Scholarship Coordinator Oklahoma City Area Indian Health Service HC 67, Box 132 Marietta, OK 73448 Phone: 580-276-5983 or 800-829-7044 Chahta Undergraduate Scholarship Award: The Chahta Undergraduate Scholarship is a competitive scholarship to be awarded to Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma (CNO) students who have been accepted into or are currently attending the undergraduate program of their choice. This is a $2,000 scholarship awarded while the recipient is attending an accredited university. For more information, please click here: https://chahtafoundation.com/scholarship/chahta-undergraduate-scholarship/ Chevron / AISES Scholarship Program Award: The American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES) helps students move forward in their educational journeys by providing a wide range of programs and scholarship opportunities. Students will complete a general application profile that will automatically match students only with the scholarship opportunities they are eligible for. Please click here for more information: https://www.aises.org/students/scholarships Executive Women International Adult Students in Scholastic Transition (ASIST) Award: The ASIST Scholarship is a non-discriminatory, educational scholarship program for the benefit of nontraditional students pursuing an associates, bachelor or master’s degree, or a technical/professional certificate. Please click here for more information: https://apply.mykaleidoscope.com/scholarship/asist2022 Hispanic Scholarship Fund Award: Hispanic Scholarship Fund (HSF) empowers families with the knowledge and resources to successfully complete a higher education, while providing scholarships and support services to as many exceptional students as possible. Eligibility: Graduating high school seniors, undergraduate students (all years) community college transfer students and graduate students are all eligible to apply. Students must be a US citizen, permanent legal resident or DACA student of Hispanic heritage, with a minimum of a 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale and must plan to enroll full-time in an accredited university for the year they are applying for. Please click here for more information: https://www.hsf.net/scholarship Jackie Robinson Foundation Scholarship Award: The Jackie Robinson Foundation provides a multi-faceted experience designed to not only address the financial needs of minority students who aspire to attend college, but also to guide them through the process of higher education. Please click here for more information: https://www.jackierobinson.org/apply/ Lighted Pathways Scholarship and Internship Award: Light a pathway to a successful future working as an investment, asset or financial manager! This opportunity hopes to expose interested African-American students to finance professions, asset management, and careers in the Boston, Massachusetts area. This opportunity has been broken into two parts: a scholarship and an internship. Please click here for more information on the scholarship and click here for more information on the internship. Eligibility: Rising sophomores or juniors; must have a 2.7 gpa or higher; enrolled at a four year institution and must be African-American or Identify as African-American. Mickey Leland Energy Fellowship (MLEF) Program Award: The Mickey Leland Energy Fellowship (MLEF) Program provides students with educational opportunities to gain real-world, hands-on research experience with the Department of Energy’ (DOE) Office of Fossil Energy. The MLEF program was created with the goal of improving opportunities for under-represented and minority students in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields. More information and the scholarship application can be found here: https://orise.orau.gov/mlef/ TC Energy Scholarships TC Energy offers three different types of scholarships: Scholarships for Trades students Scholarships for STEM focused students Indigenous Legacy Scholarships – Meant for students from the Tribes where TC Energy does business and is open to students in any post-secondary program. Award: Scholarships awarded up to $5,000. For more information, please click here: https://www.tcenergy.com/community-giving/scholarships/US/#criteria Tribal Organizations Scholarships Cherokee Nation: www.cherokee.org Choctaw Nation: www.choctawnation.com Indian College Fund: www.collegefund.org Truman D. Picard Scholarship Awards: The Truman D. Picard Scholarship is dedicated to the support of Native American students pursuing a higher education in Natural Resources. For more information, please contact the Intertribal Timber Council or click here for more information. UNCF STEM Scholarship Award: The UNCF STEM Scholars Program is an initiative designed to identify and provide scholarship and academic support for African American high school students who aspire to earn STEM degrees and to pursue careers in STEM fields. The program awards 100 scholarships on an annual basis. Please click here for more information: uncf.org/stemscholars 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT