Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / University Advancement and Alumni Engagement / Where to give Where to give Why Give How to Give Where to Give Give Greater Engraved Bricks Donor Privacy Policy Gift Administration Policy MAKE A GIFT PLANNED GIVING TUALUMNI.com You may direct your charitable contribution to TU to the program, project, or department of your choice. Perhaps you have an affinity to a College or McFarlin Library. Maybe your passion lies with a particular sport. Or, like most of our alumni who received financial assistance when they were students, perhaps you would like to contribute to a scholarship fund to help a current TU student achieve his or her educational dream. No matter where your philanthropic interests lie, TU offers a multitude of giving opportunities for your consideration. Annual Fund Your gift to the TU Annual Fund provides the critical foundation of support the University needs to continue toward its goal of being recognized as one of the nation’s Top 50 institutions of higher education. The breadth of financial support from alumni is one of the benchmarks used in national rankings of universities through surveys such as those conducted US News and World Report and The Princeton Review. In other words, it doesn’t matter how big your gift is but, rather, that you are counted as donor to the University. It is impossible to overstate the importance of the TU Annual Fund and its impact on the day-to-day life at TU. Budgeted funds are earmarked for specific purposes and are often allocated before the fiscal year even begins. Annual Fund support, on the other hand, provides the needed flexibility to take advantage of unexpected opportunities or address unforeseen challenges that may have no other dedicated funding source. You may direct your gift to any area of the University you wish to support. These may include the general scholarship fund, any academic departments, your favorite athletic program, or to the University in general. Your support of the TU Annual Fund is greatly appreciated! Make a gift to TU Give Greater Give Greater One Day for TU is The University of Tulsa’s annual 24-hour fundraising challenge. Each year, our goal is to unite alumni, students, parents, employees, and friends through giving. During this campaign, you will have the ability to designate your gift to 90+ areas across campus. Learn more. Cane Crowd Cane Crowd is The University of Tulsa’s special project crowdfunding campaign. Each year, we highlight unique student, faculty and staff lead projects from across campus. utulsa.edu/canecrowd Endowed Funds An endowed fund generates earnings year after year, ensuring that ongoing financial support will be sustained at The University of Tulsa. Endowed funds create a continuing and meaningful tribute to their namesakes. Many alumni and friends have contributed funds created in memory of professors that have touched their lives. You can also honor friends and family through endowed funds. If you, your family or your organization is interested in establishing an endowed scholarship, please contact the Development Office at 918-631-2561. Henry Kendall College of Arts & Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences provides its students with a broad foundation of study in the fine and performing arts, humanities, and social sciences. The college offers more than 25 major areas of study in disciplines as diverse as the fine arts, communication, computer science, languages, and psychology. Gifts to the Henry Kendall College of Arts & Sciences may be made to the college’s general annual fund, to support a particular department, or to provide support to literary journals such as Nimrod or the James Joyce Quarterly. Make a gift to TU Collins College of Business Collins College of Business focuses on flexible programs, which meet the needs of its students, while providing graduates who meet the needs of the business and health care communities. The college offers undergraduates 13 major areas of study, including the recent establishment of a degree in Energy Management that now boasts an enrollment of more than 100 students. An additional 13 majors are offered at the graduate level, including a revamped Master of Business Administration program and joint MS/JD graduate degree programs in the areas of business administration, taxation, and finance. Gifts to the Collins College of Business may be made to the college’s general annual fund, to support a particular department, or to provide support to student-led efforts including Studio Blue (a marketing and design studio that focuses on providing support to area non-profit agencies) and the Student Investment Fund (a student-managed investment portfolio). Make a gift to TU College of Engineering & Natural Sciences As the largest of the academic colleges on the TU campus, the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences offers a challenging curriculum that encourages the development of problem-solving skills that require imagination and ingenuity, and a small student-to-teacher ratio of 11:1 that enhances the overall learning experience. These hallmarks are notably reflected in the impressive number of nationally competitive scholarships won by students in the college. Of the 111 national scholarships given to TU students in its history, 100 of them were awarded to ENS students. Gifts to the College of Engineering and Natural Sciences may be made to the college’s general Annual Fund, to support a specific department or to fund unique student-led service work projects such as building mobility devices for handicapped children, the student chapter of Engineers Without Borders or the Sustainable Engineering for Needy and Emerging Areas project. Make a gift to TU Oxley College of Health Sciences The College of Health Sciences is TU’s newest college, bringing together the School of Nursing, a physician assistant program, and the Departments of Athletic Training, Exercise & Sports Science and Communication Disorders. Additionally, the college houses TU’s faculty of Community Medicine and will advance the university’s strong partnership with the Laureate Institute for Brain Research. Interdisciplinary study is key to the College of Health Sciences, where students and faculty are encouraged to collaborate with other departments – and even other colleges – to find solutions. Health Sciences students can learn from their peers in engineering, law, psychology, computer science and business. Off campus, representatives from the college are encouraged to make a difference in the community where healthcare needs are many. Service learning is an important facet of a TU education, and Health Sciences is an field where a university can be a change agent. Make a gift to TU College of Law The University of Tulsa College of Law values its position within an excellent, private, doctoral-degree-granting university, and its partnerships with the community, the bench and bar, tribal nations and foreign institutions. The University of Tulsa College of Law prepares students from diverse backgrounds to excel in the legal profession through an intellectually rigorous program that promotes these core values: excellence in scholarship, dedication to free inquiry, integrity of character, professionalism, and commitment to humanity. Gifts to the College of Law may be made to the college’s general annual fund, to support a specific academic program, or to provide assistance to critical student learning opportunities such as national moot court competitions, professional internships, or for experiential learning in a university legal clinic. Make a gift to TU Graduate School The reasons graduate students select TU are often the very reasons they decided to pursue graduate studies in the first place. Our graduate students want to… Be exposed to some of the best minds in their chosen field. Learn as much as they can in that field. Advance in their careers. TU is in a unique position to offer our graduate students the best features of a small college and a large, comprehensive university. Small size and close student-faculty interaction Our graduate students are integral and vital members of research teams, and work individually with faculty members who are on the cutting edge of their fields. They also work closely with faculty members in charting their course for their graduate studies in completing their master’s or doctoral degrees. Flexible programs and professional opportunities TU is large enough to provide a wide variety of course offerings, faculty and professional advising, student services and extensive research opportunities. At TU, graduate students have opportunities to participate in research, internships or practica that give them first-hand experience in a particular discipline, while also affording them opportunities to publish their findings and present their research at conferences. Our students know what it is like to work in their field before they enter it as a professional. And in many cases, they have an offer to work in that field before they graduate. Make a gift to TU McFarlin Library At the heart of every great academic institution stands its library, and at The University of Tulsa, our own iconic McFarlin Library is no exception. As the TU’s Grand Dame since 1929, McFarlin has been the physical and academic center of our beautiful campus. In its 80-year history, McFarlin has bolstered the research of thousands of scholars, informed countless research papers, and acquired more than 170,000 rare books, manuscripts, and other materials that are held in the university’s special collections. As a critical component of TU’s $400 million Embrace the Future campaign, McFarlin Library has undergone a major restoration, returning the building to its original grandeur. The new 16,000-square-foot Pauline McFarlin Walter Academic Technology Center houses modern computing laboratories and online instruction space, allowing the four stately reading rooms to be remodelled and returned to their primary purpose. Extensive reconstruction has allowed for access to the library once again through the original west entrance from the Albert Plaza, as well as from the north through the new Bank of Oklahoma Atrium. The Frances W. O’Hornett Grand Foyer leads visitors to the Cortland and Martha Deitler Cafe on the Plaza Level, and offers access to contemplative study space in the nearby Gray Student Commons and the exquisitely restored Ann and Jack Graves Faculty Study. The financial resources needed to sustain a world class library like McFarlin are vast. However, through the generous support of friends, alumni, and other benefactors of The University of Tulsa, we are able to provide TU students and faculty with the academic resources necessary to succeed in their scholastic enterprise. Gifts to McFarlin Library can be made in several ways: The McFarlin Annual Fund for Excellence The McFarlin Fellows The Ben Graf Henneke Society McFarlin Signature Society Gifts to Special Collections and University Archives Make a gift to TU Athletics The University of Tulsa, an NCAA Division I member for all its 18 teams, joined the American Athletic Conference in July 2014. Before becoming a member of the American, Tulsa teams won a league-best 59 Conference USA championships in nine seasons. Tulsa has made numerous post-season appearances and earned individual national accolades across all sports programs in the last decade. Tulsa has won six national championships, four in women’s golf (1982 and 1988 NCAA and 1980 and 1982 AIAW titles) and two in men’s basketball (1981 and 2001 NIT). Gifts to the Department of Athletics may be made to the general annual fund, to the Golden Hurricane Club, to the Letterwinner’s Association, to any one or more of the 18 men’s and women’s athletic programs, or to a variety of student academic services. Make a gift to the Loyal Always True Fund Make a gift to the Golden Hurricane Club Make a gift to the Letterwinner’s Association Make a gift to the Golden Hurricane Parents Club Parent Philanthropy Parent Leadership Council About the PLC The Parent Leadership Council (PLC) offers parents of TU students the opportunity for meaningful engagement with university leadership during your student’s time on campus and beyond. PLC members represent a community of parents who are passionate about supporting the student experience at The University of Tulsa. Parents may join the PLC by dedicating an annual leadership gift of $2,500 or more to the Parent Fund. Your gift will help support many areas parents care about such as student success, academic programming or any other campus experience that enhances your student’s educational and co-curricular experiences. Purpose To offer opportunities for engagement between parents and University leadership. To support maintaining the excellence of student success programming. To create friendships with fellow TU parents and serve as a network of informed ambassadors for the university. Membership Expectations Participate in one optional meeting annually with the President and university leadership. Make an annual leadership gift of $2,500 or more to support student success programming. Seek opportunities to leverage corporate partnerships with your place of employment and partner with TU’s Center for Career Development and Professional Engagement to connect TU students with internship and employment opportunities. Membership Benefits Invitation to attend the premier philanthropy event – Thanks for Giving hosted by the University President, University Trustees and TU’s leadership philanthropic community. Invitations to private donor and university events. Receive important information through university newsletters and correspondence. Engagement with the university president and institutional leadership. Parent Leadership Council Co-Chairs: Glen and Punky Dahl, Parents of Haley, Class of 2015 Mark and Susie Butterworth, Parents of Parker, Class of 2017 Donna Richardson, Parent of Morgan, Class of 2015 Make a gift to the Parent Leadership Council here. The Golden Hurricane Parents Club The mission of the GHPC is to enhance engagement between parents of TU student-athletes and our campus community. Members will have the opportunity to financially support Golden Hurricane Athletics and its commitment to provide an outstanding academic, athletic, and social experience while creating comradery and a shared-purpose. Your membership will help support critical areas of operation for our more 400 student-athletes including: Academic support and student success initiatives Student athlete development Team travel Gifts to the GHPC also help TU retain a competitive position against larger universities in the American Athletic Conference (AAC). Make a gift to the Golden Hurricane Parents Club here. University School University School is a private school on The University of Tulsa campus serving academically talented children ages three through eighth grade. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT