Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Services HQ / Welcome to Campus Dining Welcome to Campus Dining Dining On Campus Dining options, hours & locations Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Grubhub Event Planning & Catering Nutrition Sodexo Employment Mobile Dining App Check Dining Balance Dining Services is committed to providing the campus community with varied, healthy eating options in enjoyable settings that promote social interaction. Our chefs and dietitians plan creative offerings to meet the health and wellness needs of every diner. Sustainability is a fundamental principle that reduces environmental impact and allows us to source local, seasonal, and socially responsible products. Dining Options, Hours & Locations Subway More Info Einstein Bros. Bagels More Info SOL Tex-Mex More Info Pat Case Dining Center More Info Benvenuto Cuccina Italiana More Info Tulsa Burger & Wings Co. More Info Chick-fil-A More Info Sushi Blu More Info Tossed More Info McFarlin Cafe More Info C-Store More Info Faculty Club More Info × Subway Subway, located in the Allen Chapman Student Union includes all the features of the franchise, including made-to-order sandwiches and freshly baked bread and cookies. A breakfast menu is available every day before 11:00 a.m. Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Close Window × Einstein Bros. Bagels Einstein Bros. Bagels offers a wide variety of breakfast items to start your morning, including specialty coffees and a bagel or egg sandwich. For those that prefer to start the day later, Einsteins offers a large selection of salads, hot and cold sandwiches, as well as grab and go items. Hours of Operation Monday-Friday 7:30am – 1:30pm Close Window × SOL Tex-Mex Fresh ingredients as you build your burrito, taco, nachos, salad, or burrito bowl. Next pick your protein which includes your choice of fajita chicken, carnitas, ground beef, or veggies. Top it off just the way you like it. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Close Window × Pat Case Dining Center The Pat Case Dining Center at the Student Union will now offer numerous, fresh hot, and cold grab-and-go options plus all-you-care to eat made-to-order items while in the dining center. Students will be encouraged to dine outside in small groups or with roommates as there will be limited seating available in the Student Union. The last meal served for the Spring Semester is Dinner on May 5th. Closed for summer Hours of Operation MONDAY – FRIDAY Breakfast 7:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. Lunch 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m Dinner 4:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. SATURDAY Brunch 10:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. Dinner 4:00 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. SUNDAY Brunch 11:00 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. Dinner 4:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Close Window × Benvenuto Cuccina Italiana Benvenuto Cuccina Italiana is an extremely popular walk-up lunch site for delicious made-to-order pasta. Students choose pasta, sauce, and choice of protein and vegetables for an entrée unique to individual taste. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Close Window × Tulsa Burger & Wings Co. It has been a long time coming but here is the newest addition to the Student Union, Tulsa Burgers & Wing Co. The menu includes meat, vegan, and vegetarian burger options along with boneless and traditional chicken wings. As well as a selection of shakes and smoothies. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Thursday 11:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Friday 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Close Window × Chick-fil-A This highly popular site features quality chicken sandwiches and salads. Chick-fil-A is located in the food court on the first floor of the Allen Chapman Student Union. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Close Window × Sushi Blu Located in the Allen Chapman Student Union, Sushi Blu offers guests sushi Nigiri and a variety of hand-made rolls. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Close Window × Tossed Exclusive to The University of Tulsa, Tossed offers guests traditional and custom salads. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Close Window × McFarlin Cafe The Cortlandt and Martha Dietler Café is located in the Plaza Level lobby, just behind the circulation desk. The Cafe’ features an assortment of Seattle’s Best coffee, lattes, and more. You can also pick up a muffin or other baked goods to go with your coffee. To satisfy your lunch cravings, choose from an assortment of organic menu items or one of the Simply to Go items. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 7:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Close Window × C-Store The university has a convenience store located in the Allen Chapman Student Union. A wide range of items can be purchased from the store, including food staples like bread, cereal, and milk, as well as snacks, personal items, and almost anything else you’d find in a convenience store. Purchases can be made using Dining Dollars, Hurricane Gold Cards, credit cards, and cash. Closed for summer Hours of Operation Monday – Friday 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Close Window × Faculty Club The University of Tulsa Faculty Club is open to our Faculty, Staff, and invited guests. Faculty Club is located on the 2nd floor of the Student Union, and is open for lunch Monday through Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. The delicious buffet includes a choice of two proteins (usually a carved item), a vegan option, veggies, rolls, a salad bar, soup or legumes, and two dessert options. Soft drinks, tea, and coffee are included in the $9 charge. Payment can be made using cash, Visa, Mastercard, and Hurricane Gold Dollars. Closed for summer Close Window 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT