Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Strategic Marketing & Communications Hours Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Phone 918-631-2656 Location Fisher Hall Map Email The Office of Strategic Marketing & Communications is the comprehensive, in-house public relations service for The University of Tulsa. Our professional staff of communicators works to strategically build, maintain and strengthen important relationships between the public and the university. Strategic Marketing & Communications has a variety of communication tools to reach our various publics, including targeted publications, such as magazines, newsletters and brochures for TU’s colleges and academic support units; comprehensive news and marketing services, including news releases and other media vehicles; as well as the university website and social media channels. For an archive of our articles and releases, please visit our News page. Graphic Standards The Office of Strategic Marketing & Communications is responsible for maintaining the graphic style of all publications and specialty items representing The University of Tulsa. The TU Graphic Style Guidelines have been developed to provide guidance when using university graphics. Guidelines and policies that appear on this site are to be followed by all academic and administrative units of the university. Publications and specialty items that use any of the official university logos should be approved by the Office of Strategic Marketing & Communications well in advance of the prepress stages of the printing process. The University of Tulsa observes a trademark licensing program to protect its trademarked logos. Permission to use any of the marks of the university other than in publications must be obtained from the Business Manager. These guidelines and policies have been approved by the president of The University of Tulsa. The University of Tulsa Graphic Standards are based on the following: Create a consistent and coherent look that encompasses the entire university. Assure that the university’s standards of quality and excellence are reflected to external and internal audiences. Style Guidelines Media Resources The Office of Strategic Marketing & Communications staff works on a beat system, with each individual working primarily with assigned colleges and program areas. These beat areas help establish relationships between University Relations staff and each academic and administrative department. There are some beats, such as development and campus events (commencement, homecoming, etc.), that we share. Please feel free to contact any member of the staff with your news, story idea, or request for publicity. If you don’t know whom to contact, send an email to news@utulsa.edu. Events Calendar The online TU events calendar provides a one-stop source of event information for University of Tulsa students, faculty, staff, parents, alumni and the local community. The events calendar provides a comprehensive listing of official university-sponsored events including lectures, exhibitions, meetings, cultural events, deadlines and other activities, and is maintained by the Offices of University Relations. The events calendar is used to help University Relations push content to other sources such as news media, digital signage, social media and the public website. The calendar also serves as a guide to other departments on campus when planning their own events to avoid double booking. SUBMIT AN EVENT Any TU faculty, staff or student may submit an event to the university calendar. Go to calendar.utulsa.edu to get started. Use your TU username and password to login into the calendar through any web browser. Read the Event Calendar Guide for step-by-step instructions on submitting an event. Once you submit an event, an email is sent to the calendar admin in University Relations. You’ll also get an email containing a link back to the event item. You can make changes to the event until an admin approves it. After it’s been approved, changes or additions must be sent to digital-communications@utulsa.edu. It takes approximately one business day for an event to be approved and appear on the calendar. EVENT ELIGIBILITY Events include lectures, workshops, meetings, training programs, arts events, sporting events, social events, and academic notices. They may include on-campus events or selected off-campus events sponsored by a TU group. These events may be open to the general public, the TU community or a segment of the TU community. Since the calendar is on the public website, events need to specify who can attend them. There are places to indicate the audience group and also the cost and open to instructions on the submission form. Events must be submitted at least three business days prior to the event date so that it has an opportunity to be reviewed. Items should be submitted as soon as possible for maximum promotion and coverage. Academic dates and university holidays are added to the events calendar by Strategic Marketing & Communications. RESTRICTIONS ON SUBMISSIONS Currently, the following events CANNOT be posted to the TU events calendar: On-campus events that are hosted by someone who is not a member of the TU community. A personal event. Department or organization events whose details should not be visible to a wide audience. University courses or course-related events sponsored by an academic department. Your event submission will be rejected if it doesn’t meet university calendar guidelines. Events will be rejected if they are: Illegal (after conferring with legal counsel) In conflict with TU policy Not an event, by definition Doesn’t include title, date, time and location Duplicate of an existing event The facility and/or event was not properly scheduled Not a university-sponsored event The TU events calendar is NOT designed for scheduling facilities or rooms. You must go through normal channels to schedule a facility. If you have questions or need help submitting an event, please email digital-communications@utulsa.edu. Digital Signage The use of campus digital signage is for University of Tulsa faculty and staff to display information related to campus events, activities and services on campus. Digital signage displays event calendar listings in a scrolling feed. Make sure that all your campus activities on the events calendar. If you have questions, please contact Web Systems at web-systems@utulsa.edu. Faculty Photos If faculty would like to replace their existing cover image or headshot on their faculty bio webpage, or would like to have a new photo taken, please visit Faculty Photo Submission page for complete details. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT