Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Office of the Registrar Hours WINDOW HOURS ***The University of Tulsa is closed for Memorial Day weekend starting Thursday, May 26 until Tuesday, May 31. Monday-Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 8:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Pickup of diplomas, letters and transcripts only available during posted window hours. Phone 918-631-2254 Location McClure Hall, Room 103 Map Contact Us REGISTRAR Academic Calendar Enrollment Dates Finals Schedule Schedule of Courses Transfer Credit and Credit by Exam Re-admission for Returning Students Undergraduate Bulletin Graduate Bulletin Contact the Registrar The Office of the Registrar provides academic and enrollment services for faculty, students and alumni. We are committed to providing quality services that enhance the educational experience. Let us know if you have any questions or concerns about your academic records or the registration process. Services we provide include course scheduling, finals scheduling, registration, grades, transcripts, diplomas. Pickup orders are only available during posted window hours. Window Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM Questions outside posted window hours? Call 918-631-2254 or email records@utulsa.edu. Ordering Transcripts - CURRENT STUDENTS eTranscripts are processed at any time, however transcripts that need to be mailed will require 24 – 48 business hours for processing. This includes transcripts requested to be sent by Express Mail. Transcripts will not be emailed or faxed. Transcripts will not be processed for accounts with outstanding balances. Questions regarding ordering a transcript? Contact transcripts@utulsa.edu. OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS National Student Clearinghouse Official transcripts are available online through the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. To order transcripts through NSC, go to https://tsorder.studentclearinghouse.org/school/ficecode/00318500 Orders for paper transcripts through NSC will be charged a $7.65 per transcript fee. Additional $5 assigned to amount above if being mailed internationally. Orders for eTranscripts will be charged $6.25 per transcript. NSC orders will be processed immediately, as long as the record is after 1994 and there are no holds on a student account. Electronic and paper transcripts are not immediately available for any academic records prior to 1994 through NSC and will be fulfilled off-line. Self-Service Requests Official hardcopy transcripts may be ordered by by submitting a request through Self-Service at https://selfservice.utulsa.edu/Student/Student/TranscriptRequests. Electronic transcripts are only available through the National Student Clearinghouse. Express Delivery Options Please allow two business days for processing mailed requests, whether submitted through the National Student Clearinghouse or via Self-Service. Requests for paper transcripts during times that the university is closed will be processed on the next regular business day that the university is open. If you are needing a paper transcript sooner, consider the express delivery options below. Express delivery options for paper transcripts are only available for orders through the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Options listed below are in addition to the $7.65 per transcript NSC charge: In the US: additional $27 Canada/Mexico: additional $47 International: additional $60 UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS Unofficial transcripts are only available to current students. This option can be accessed in a current student’s Self-Service account. Alumni or past students that no longer have an active TU login must request official transcripts as outlined above. Ordering Transcripts - ALUMNI/PAST STUDENTS eTranscripts are processed at any time, however transcripts that need to be mailed will require 24 – 48 business hours for processing. This includes transcripts requested to be sent by Express Mail. Transcripts will not be emailed or faxed. Transcripts will not be processed for accounts with outstanding balances. Questions regarding ordering a transcript? Contact transcripts@utulsa.edu. OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS National Student Clearinghouse Official transcripts are available online through the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC) 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. To order transcripts through NSC, go to https://tsorder.studentclearinghouse.org/school/ficecode/00318500 Orders for paper transcripts through NSC will be charged a $7.65 per transcript fee. Additional $5 assigned to amount above if being mailed internationally Orders for eTranscripts will be charged $6.25 per transcript. NSC orders will be processed immediately, as long as the record is after 1994 and there are no holds on a student account. Electronic and paper transcripts are not immediately available for any academic records prior to 1994 through NSC and will be fulfilled off-line. Express Delivery Options Please allow two business days for processing mailed requests. Requests for paper transcripts during times that the university is closed will be processed on the next regular business day that the university is open. If you are needing a paper transcript sooner, consider the express delivery options below. Express delivery options for paper transcripts are only available for orders through the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC). Options listed below are in addition to the $7.65 per transcript NSC charge: In the US: additional $27 Canada/Mexico: additional $47 International: additional $60 UNOFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS Unofficial transcripts are only available to current students. Alumni or past students that no longer have an active TU login must request official transcripts as outlined above. Loan Deferment Forms After obtaining the Deferment Form from your lender, simply complete your portion, sign the form and forward it to the Registrar’s Office. We will certify enrollment and mail it to the appropriate Loan Servicing Center. in Person: Office of the Registrar McClure Hall, Room 103 Mon – Fri, 9 AM – 1 PM by Mail: The University of Tulsa Office of the Registrar 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104-9700 by Fax: 918-631-2622 by Email: records@utulsa.edu Replacing Diplomas To replace a lost/damaged diploma, complete the online form. Only one diploma per degree will be issued for a student. The cost of replacing a diploma is $100. For diplomas mailed overseas, additional charges for overseas shipping may be required. Replacement diplomas will be issued in the name of record. Graduates wishing to change the name on their diploma should submit their request with a copy of the social security card in the new name and a copy of the Marriage Certificate/Court Order granting the name change. If graduates wish a preferred/chosen name to appear on the replacement diploma, rather than a new legal name, please refer to our Preferred Name Declaration policy. Please contact the Office of the Registrar at 918-631-2254 or records@utulsa.edu for questions about replacement diplomas. Diploma Shipping Options The University of Tulsa provides an express mailing service to students and scholars via eShipGlobal, which allows you to request to receive your diploma from the university using your preferred carrier (via FedEx, UPS or DHL) and shipping service. Please follow the instructions provided below to create your (free) eShipGlobal account, confirm your delivery address, and request your documents. Any diplomas being shipped internationally MUST be sent through eShipGlobal. How to Request Your Diploma be Shipped via eShipGlobal: 1. Login or Create your eShipGlobal (or “UEMS”) account (https://study.eshipglobal.com/register/) 2. Click the activation link sent to your email address, then login (https://study.eshipglobal.com/slogin.asp) (doesn’t like Microsoft Edge) 3. Click ”RECEIVE PACKAGES FROM UNIVERSITY” 4. Enter ”University of Tulsa” into the search box 5. Select ”Office of the Registrar” from the list of departments provided. IMPORTANT!!! Be sure to select the correct department. 6. Confirm or update your complete delivery address and contact information Select the appropriate Type of Document for the shipment. Transcripts require a separate request form be submitted. Information about requesting a transcript can be found here: https://utulsa.edu/registrar/#ordering-transcripts-current-students Please do not submit a request to ship transcripts if you have not already submitted the transcript request form. 7. Select your preferred carrier (FedEx, UPS or DHL) and shipping service 8. Select your method of payment (Credit/Debit Card, PayPal or Wire Transfer) and confirm your payment information Once completed, you will automatically receive a confirmation email from eShipGlobal with your order number and shipment details, and your request will automatically be sent to the Office of the Registrar. Once the university has processed and shipped your documents, you will automatically receive a notification email confirming that your documents have been shipped and your tracking information. You may also track or check the status of your shipment at any time (24/7) by logging in to your eShipGlobal account, downloading the UEMS mobile app, or by contacting eShipGlobal’s Student Support Questions? Please contact eShipGlobal’s student support team directly regarding any questions that you may have, to make any changes to your shipment, technical issues, or for any other assistance regarding all new or existing shipments, deliveries and shipping related help and information. Student support representatives are available Monday – Friday, 8:00 am to 6:00 pm CST via email, phone, or chat online with a live representative. Email: studentsupport@eshipglobal.com Phone: 800-816-1615; 972-518-1775 (U.S./Canada), or 001-972-518-1775 (International) or Chat online with a live representative You may also refer to eShipGlobal’s FAQ page for a list of frequently asked questions and answers. Degree Verification Verifications of degrees from The University of Tulsa can be attained from the National Student Clearinghouse. The Clearinghouse provides a single, reliable source for verifying academic and professional credentials. Preferred Name Declarations PREFERRED NAMES FOR USE IN CLASS ROSTERS To request use of a preferred name, rather than a legal name, for class rosters and internal university communications, please complete the form below and submit to records@utulsa.edu. Be aware that declaration of a preferred name will not change what appears on a transcript, tax document, or other documents shared with external entities. Preferred Name Change Form PREFERRED NAMES ON DIPLOMAS By default, students’ legal names are printed on diplomas. At the time students apply to graduate, they have the option to have a preferred name printed on the diploma, appear in the Commencement Program, and be read aloud at the ceremony. The student name listed on a diploma or certificate or used for Commencement documents/events must match the official name on file at the University (first name, last name) with the following exceptions: Option of first name or initial Options of diminutive or alternate form for the first name Option of a first name which conforms with the graduate’s genuine expression of gender identity Omission of the first name when the middle name is used as a salutary name Option of middle name or initial Inclusion of former or maiden family name Inclusion of proper capitalization and accentuation of name Inclusion of maternal surnames as culturally appropriate Neither titles nor degrees previously earned will be included as part of a graduate’s name on a diploma. All requests are reviewed on a case by case basis. The preferred name requested on the diploma must match the preferred name listed in Ellucian Colleague. This is necessary for future non-third-party verification that may take place. Instructions for updating preferred name in university system listed below. If a student decides to change the diploma name after an original diploma is issued, requestors will be required to pay for a replacement diploma. Replacement diplomas issued due to name changes will also list any names included on previous versions for reference purposes below the new preferred name. Any preferred names requested for inclusion on the diploma will not apply to transcripts, which will continue to only list the student’s verified, legal name. Primary name changes are only permitted in cases of legal name changes through the Courts. Students must keep in mind that certain countries and professions require legal names to be printed on diplomas. Requesting Preferred Name for Diploma and Commencement Ceremonies Complete the Graduation Application in Self-Service at https://selfservice.utulsa.edu the semester planned for degree completion and include preferred name for use on diploma and in Commencement ceremonies. Submit Preferred Name Change Request to Office of the Registrar using Preferred Name Change – FILLABLE.pdf at to log name variation in Ellucian Colleague system for 3rd party verifications. Completed form must be forwarded to records@utulsa.edu for processing. Requesting Replacement Diploma with New Name To request a diploma with a new name, submit request by mail to the address below: The University of Tulsa Office of the Registrar 800 South Tucker Drive Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104-9700 The request must include: Full name to be included on new diploma, indicate whether it is a new legal or preferred name. Full name previously included on diploma Year of graduation The reason for replacement The previous diploma hardcopy Student signature Payment or receipt of payment Only one diploma per degree may be issued for a student. Replacement diplomas will be issued in the legal name of record unless a student completes the following: Graduates wishing to change the name on their diploma to a preferred name will have the new preferred name entered in university systems for future 3rd party authentication purposes. Graduates wishing to change the name on their diploma to a new legal name should also submit their request with a copy of the social security card in the new name and a copy of the Marriage Certificate/Court Order granting the name change. Forms Complete Withdrawal Form Certification Letter Request Form Change of Personal Information Form Drop/Add Form – Undergraduate/Graduate Level Preferred Name Change Request 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT