Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Health Center / Exposure to COVID-19 Exposure to COVID-19 CAMPUS SERVICES Hurricane Health Center Health Services After Hours Care Immunization Requirements Patient Rights and Responsibilities COVID-19 Health Resources COVID-19 Statistics COVID-19 Self-Reporting Form COUNSELING SERVICES Self-Reporting & Next Steps: It is important that we hear from you! To help ensure the health and safety of the campus community, the University requires students and employees to complete the self-report form if they are experiencing one or more of the following: Diagnosed/being treated by a healthcare professional for COVID-19 Exposed to a known positive case Experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 Based on whether you (1) have been diagnosed with COVID-19; (2) have been exposed to a known positive case; or (3) are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, please review the following guidance. 1. Positive COVID-19 diagnosis A. No Symptoms If you test positive for COVID-19, but have no symptoms, you must self-isolate for five (5) days after the date of your positive diagnosis and then wear a mask when around others for an additional five (5) days. During your 5-day isolation, stay home and do not go to work or school. Do not participate in any on campus activities or attend any events. If you must leave your home for essential needs, like medical care or food ensure that you wear a mask or face covering while out in public and adhere to strict physical distancing of at least 6 feet away from others. Employee: Please contact your supervisor to notify them of your required self-isolation. You may automatically return to work after completing the isolation procedures described herein so long as the conditions for leaving isolation have been met. If you have questions or concerns about your clearance status, please email covid19@utulsa.edu. If you remain asymptomatic, you may leave isolation after 5 days. Day 0 is the day of your positive test. If you develop symptoms after testing positive, your 5-day isolation period must start over. Day 0 is your first day of symptoms. Follow the guidance in Section 1(B) below. Complete this form to identify your close contacts. Student: Please reach out to your professors to make arrangements to complete your classwork during your self-isolation. If you need assistance, please contact Student Access at studentaccess@utulsa.edu. If you live in a Residence Hall or Greek Housing, you must temporarily vacate your housing during your isolation period. Apartment-dwellers do not need to relocate. Whenever possible, we urge students to isolate themselves at their permanent home, but we recognize this will not be an option for everyone. If available, the University maintains a limited number of isolation spaces as an option should a student living in university-owned housing need to temporarily relocate during an isolation period. For more information on isolation housing, please contact Campus Security at 918-631-5555. If you remain asymptomatic, you may leave isolation after 5 days. Day 0 is the day of your positive test. If you develop symptoms after testing positive, your 5-day isolation period must start over. Day 0 is your first day of symptoms. Follow the guidance in Section 1(B) below. Complete this form to identify your close contacts. B. Symptoms If you experience or develop symptoms of COVID-19 after testing positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate until five (5) days after the onset of symptoms (Day 0 is your first day of symptoms). You may then leave isolation if you are also 24 hours with no fever without the use of fever-reducing medications and so long as your other symptoms are improving. After your 5-day isolation period, you must wear a mash when around others for an additional five (5) days. During your 5-day isolation, stay home and do not go to work or school. Do not participate in any on-campus activities or attend any events. If you must leave your home for essential needs, like medical care or food ensure that you wear a mask or face covering while out in public and adhere to strict physical distancing of at least 6 feet away from others. Employee: Please contact your supervisor to notify them of your required self-isolation. You may automatically return to work after completing the isolation procedures described herein so long as the conditions for leaving isolation have been met. If you have questions or concerns about your clearance status, please email covid19@utulsa.edu. Complete this form to identify your close contacts. Student: Please reach out to your professors to make arrangements to complete your classwork during your self-isolation. If you need assistance, please contact Student Access at studentaccess@utulsa.edu. If you live in a Residence Hall or Greek Housing, you must temporarily vacate your housing during your isolation period. Apartment-dwellers do not need to relocate. Whenever possible, we urge students to isolate themselves at their permanent home, but we recognize this will not be an option for everyone. If available, the University maintains a limited number of isolation spaces as an option should a student living in university-owned housing need to temporarily relocate during an isolation period. For more information on isolation housing, please contact Campus Security at 918-631-5555. Complete this form to identify your close contacts. 2. Exposure to a known positive case If you have been exposed to someone with a positive COVID-19 diagnosis, the appropriate next steps depend on your vaccination status and your medical history. A. Booster Dose or Recently Fully Vaccinated If you have received your booster shot or if you have not received your booster shot but you completed the primary series of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine within the last six (6) months or if you completed the primary series of the J&J vaccine within the last two (2) months , and you are not experiencing any symptoms of COVID-19, then you are not required to self-quarantine. Please self-monitor your health, wear a mask, and schedule a viral test 5-7 days after the date of your exposure. Wear your mask for a full ten (10) days or until you receive your negative test result. If you feel unwell or develop any symptoms over the next fourteen (14) days, however, please self-quarantine and follow the guidance in Section 3 below. B. Unvaccinated or Not Recently Fully Vaccinated If you are not fully vaccinated, or if you are more than six (6) months out from completing the primary series of the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine or if you are more than two (2) months out from completing the primary series of the J&J vaccine, you must immediately self-quarantine for five (5) days and then wear a mask when around others for an additional five (5) days. During your self-quarantine, you must stay home (in your campus or non-campus residence) and away from others. Do not go to work or school. Do not participate in any on campus activities or attend any events. Primarily stay in your room except to get medical care, exercise alone out of doors, go to the bathroom, do laundry, and to get food. Wear a mask anytime you leave your room and practice physical distancing. Employee: Please contact your supervisor to notify them of your required self-quarantine. You may automatically return to work after completing the quarantine procedures described herein so long as the conditions for leaving quarantine have been met. If you have questions or concerns about your clearance status, please email covid19@utulsa.edu. If you feel unwell or develop any symptoms over the next fourteen (14) days, however, please additionally follow the guidance in Section 3 below. Student: Please reach out to your professors to make arrangements to complete your classwork during your self-quarantine. If you need assistance, please contact Student Access at studentaccess@utulsa.edu. If you feel unwell or develop any symptoms over the next fourteen (14) days, however, please additionally follow the guidance in Section 3 below. C. Recent recovery from a prior COVID-19 diagnosis If you have fully recovered from a COVID-19 diagnosis within the past 90 days and are not experiencing any symptoms of COVID-19, you are not required to self-quarantine after exposure. Please self-monitor your health, wear a mask, and schedule a viral test 5-7 days after the date of your exposure. Wear your mask for a full ten (10) days or until you receive your negative test result. If you feel unwell or develop any symptoms over the next fourteen (14) days, however, please self-quarantine and follow the guidance in Section 3 below. 3. Experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 Employee: If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, you should get tested (with any FDA-authorized viral test, including a laboratory PCR test, an antigen rapid test, or an over-the-counter home test) and self-quarantine while you await the results of your test. If your symptoms are severe or concerning to you, please contact your medical provider or schedule an appointment with no copay at a CareATC clinic (on-campus at Hurricane Health or at a CareATC clinic in the community). If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency, please call 911 immediately. During your self-quarantine, you must stay home and away from others. Do not go to work. Do not participate in any on-campus activities or attend any work-related events. If your test result is negative, you may end your self-quarantine. If your test result is positive, follow the guidance in Section 1(B). Please contact your supervisor to notify them of your required self-quarantine. You may automatically return to work after completing the quarantine procedures described herein so long as the conditions for leaving quarantine have been met. If you have questions or concerns about your clearance status, please email covid19@utulsa.edu. Student: If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, you should get tested (with any FDA-authorized viral test, including a laboratory PCR test, an antigen rapid test, or an over-the-counter home test) and self-quarantine while you await the results of your test. If your symptoms are severe or concerning to you, please contact your medical provider and/or schedule an appointment at Hurricane Health. If you are experiencing a life-threatening emergency, please call 911 immediately. During your self-quarantine, you must stay home (in your campus or non-campus residence) and away from others. Do not go to work or school. Do not participate in any on-campus activities or attend any events. Primarily stay in your room except to get medical care, exercise alone out of doors, go to the bathroom, do laundry, and get food. Wear a mask anytime you leave your room and practice physical distancing. Please reach out to your professors to make arrangements to complete your classwork during your self-quarantine. If you need assistance, please contact Student Access at studentaccess@utulsa.edu. If your test result is negative, you may end your self-quarantine. If your test result is positive, follow the guidance in Section 1(B). 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT