Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Community Lecture Series The University of Tulsa’s Community Lecture Series showcases the renowned faculty right here at TU. Monthly lectures feature interesting topics and are followed by a live question-and-answer session. Community Lecture Series presentations are free of charge and open to the public. For more information, please email Kristin Stierwalt. UPCOMING LECTURES Check back soon for updates on upcoming speakers PREVIOUS LECTURES Friends of Finance featuring Vicki Fuller Former Chief Investment Officer, New York State Common’s Retirement Fund May 11, 2021 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Friends of Finance featuring Alice Jackson President, Xcel-Colorado April 14, 2021 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Friends of Finance featuring Mike Mears CEO, President and Chairman at Magellan March 24, 2021 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Jenny Stewart, PhD, MA Identifying treatment targets for methamphetamine and opioid addiction in collaboration with Tulsa recovery programs NEW DATE: February 24th, 2021 6:00 P.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Join TU Assistant Professor of Community Medicine, Jenny Stewart in a live conversation about treatment targets in methamphetamine and opioid addiction recovery programs. SPEAKER BIO Video Link Coming Soon Friends of Finance featuring Nancy Buese Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Newmont Corporation February 23, 2021 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Nancy K. Buese was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Newmont effective October 31, 2016. Ms. Buese brings 25 years of experience in finance leadership roles and joined Newmont having most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MPLX, a publicly traded energy company formed by Marathon Petroleum Corporation. Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Hannibal B. Johnson, Esq. Affirming America’s Promise February 18th, 2021 6:00 P.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Hannibal B. Johnson is an attorney, author and consultant in Tulsa, Oklahoma. A graduate of Harvard Law School and the University of Arkansas, Mr. Johnson specializes in diversity and inclusion, cultural competence and nonprofit governance. Today, he serves on the federal 400 Years of African-American History Commission and he chairs the education committee for the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission. This lecture is presented by the University of Tulsa College of Law and is open to the public. SPEAKER BIO WATCH VIDEO Robin Aupperle, PhD, MA Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Mental Health of TU Students February 3, 2021 Dr. Aupperle has been conducting a longitudinal study concerning the psychological well-being of TU students. With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, she added measures to this ongoing study to assess for student experiences during this stressful time (e.g., concerns about COVID, virtual learning, social experiences). Dr. Aupperle will report on how and whether self-reported student mental health changed from before to after the onset of the pandemic and what factors were reported to be most stressful for students. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO WATCH VIDEO Andy J Tracy PhD, MSN, CRNA, Pathophysiology of COVID for non medical people January 26th, 2021 7:00 P.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Join TU Nurse Anesthesia Program Assistant Director, Andy Tracy in a live conversation about the functions of the novel coronavirus with a focus on understanding for those not in the medical field. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Friends of Finance featuring Tom Fanning Chairman, President and CEO at Southern Company January 21, 2021 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event Thomas A. (Tom) Fanning is chairman, president and chief executive officer of Southern Company, America’s premier energy company. He has worked for Southern Company for more than 38 years and has held 15 different positions in eight different business units, including numerous officer positions with a variety of Southern Company subsidiaries in the areas of finance, strategy, international business development and technology Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Dr. Jabraan Pasha Impact of Implicit Bias on Patient Care and Society December 4, 2020 1:00pm CST Virtual Event Join TU Associate Program Director for Internal Medicine OU-TU School of Community Medicine in a live conversation about the impact of implicit bias on patient care and on society as a whole. This is part of the Race Talk Series presented by The Oxley College of Health Sciences. Emily Contois, PhD, MPH, MLA Diners, Dudes, and Diets: How Gender and Power Collide in Food Media and Culture November 19, 2020 7:00 p.m. (Central) — Virtual Event Mark your calendar and join us for a live virtual conversation with Chapman Assistant Professor of Media Studies Emily Contois, who will be discussing themes from her new book, Diners, Dudes, and Diets: How Gender and Power Collide in Food Media and Culture. The phrase “dude food” likely brings to mind a range of images: burgers stacked impossibly high with an assortment of toppings that were themselves once considered a meal; crazed sports fans demolishing plates of radioactively hot wings; barbecued or bacon-wrapped . . . anything. But there is much more to the phenomenon of dude food than what’s on the plate. In a talk brimming with fresh insights about contemporary American food media and culture, Contois will show how the gendered world of food production and consumption has influenced the way we eat and how food itself is central to the contest over our identities. SPEAKER BIO WATCH VIDEO Friends of Finance featuring Brian Mandell Executive Vice President, Marketing and Commercial at Phillips 66 November 18, 2020 11:55 A.M. (Central) — Virtual Event The 2020-2021 Executive Speaker series continues the tradition of nationally prominent individuals serving as our speakers. Join us on November 18, 2020 to hear from Brian Mandell, executive vice president, Marketing and Commercial for Phillips 66. Mandell has more than 29 years of experience in various Marketing, Commercial and Midstream roles. Register below and a link to the virtual event will be emailed to you 24-48 hours prior to the event. For more information, about the Friends of Finance Executive Speaker Series please visit https://business.utulsa.edu/friends-of-finance/executive-speakers-schedule/. This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO Jeffrey Alderman, MD, MS The Covid-19 Pandemic, Where We’ve Been – Where We’re Headed November 12, 2020 5:30 p.m. (Central) — Virtual Event Join us for a live virtual conversation about how the Covid-19 pandemic has uprooted nearly every aspect of our lives. In this discussion, Dr. Alderman will present information about the current state of the pandemic, including local/national trends, and how the disease has evolved over time. There will be a discussion about the long-term effects of those stricken by Covid, as well as highlights about the vaccine development process. We will conclude with a few words about future pandemic preparedness, and what to expect when influenza season hits later this year. SPEAKER BIO WATCH VIDEO The Legacy of Black Wall Street October 13, 2020 7:00 p.m. (Central) — Virtual Event (Zoom) Step back in time with a virtual presentation and live panel discussion commemorating the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial. Take a seat as we honor the legacy of Black Wall Street and learn about The University of Tulsa’s endeavors for our TU community, city and nation. Special Guests Brenda Alford, descendant of the Tulsa Race Massacre and niece of Dr. Cecelia Nails Palmer, the first African American faculty member at The University of Tulsa Phil Armstrong, Project Manager for the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre Centennial Commission Jeff Van Hanken MFA, Project Coordinator for the Greenwood Arts Project and Wellspring Associate Professor of Film Studies at The University of Tulsa REQUEST ACCESS TO VIDEO Sister Callista Roy, RN, PhD, FAAN October 8, 2020 6:00 p.m. (Central) — Virtual Event (Zoom) Mark your calendar and plan to join us live via Zoom to hear a presentation by Sister Callista Roy, RN, PhD, FAAN, a designated Living Legend by the American Academy of Nursing for her extraordinary lifelong contributions to the profession of nursing. Roy is the creator of the Roy Adaptation Model (RAM) of Nursing, which has been central to undergraduate TU nursing education for many years. This free event will include a Q&A session. WATCH VIDEO Aila Hoss, JD Assistant Professor, TU Law Sept. 24, 2020 5:30 p.m. (Central) — Virtual Event Join us for a live virtual conversation on the recent Supreme Court decision McGirt v. Oklahoma, featuring University of Tulsa Assistant Professor of Law Aila Hoss and law student Julie Combs. They will discuss the history of the case and its impact on Tribal sovereignty and federal Indian law. Julie Combs, 3L (Cherokee Nation) – JD candidate and past president of the Native American Law Student Association, TU Law This free event will include a Q&A session. SPEAKER BIO REQUEST ACCESS TO VIDEO 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT