Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Information Technology @ TU / University Initiatives University Initiatives The University of Tulsa embraces a roadmap featuring resilience, responsiveness, sustainability and continuous improvement. As such, iterative transformation is underway alongside a refreshed culture of embracing change. We welcome all to follow along on our journey. One TU. Stronger. Together. Need to start a project but don’t know where to begin? Click here. ACTIVE PLANNING COMPLETED Questions/Feedback Do you have a question or comment? Name First Last Email Questions/Feedback CAPTCHA Network Core Upgrade Purpose: To improve network stability, speeds, and security. The new Aruba network core features an all new design to provide improved resilience by way of active-active paths to every building and isolated fault domains. Network speeds get a major boost with double the bandwidth possible to each building connecting to a 100 Gbps mesh between core routers. Network security is enhanced by improving the isolation between various networks. All this together paves the way to take full advantage of speeds offered by the new Wi-Fi 6 network deployed last year. View a campus map showing our progress! Initiated: July 2020 Status: Estimated completion Summer 2021 Security by Design Focus Purpose: Implement Security by Design for systems, network resources, policies, and procedures to protect the safety and privacy of student, faculty and staff information. Develop processes, procedures and policies required for the protection of confidential information. Identify risks to the security of information and systems and mitigate to acceptable levels to the campus community. Define security requirements and measure compliance based on applicable laws, regulations and best practice. Ensure incident response plans are developed and implemented. Increase campus awareness of IT Security through training and communication. Initiated: Spring 2021 Status: Estimated completion Fall 2022 Additional Information: Visit the new IT Security page Colleague Modernization Purpose: Invest and improve upon our current enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution, Ellucian Colleague, to ensure best-practice use and improved efficiency and effectiveness in our administrative and academic operations. Currently In Progress: Project Accounting for Research Initiated: Fall 2020/Spring 2021 Status: Estimated completion 2022 ACTIVE: Network Switching Upgrade Purpose To improve technology connectivity, empower faster speeds and increase campus stability. The switching component connects the core network with the WiFi6 access points deployed in fall semester 2020. This is the third and final network upgrade facilitating stronger connectivity. Once completed, the cycle will repeat in a sustainable way; making sure the network/infrastructure does not reach a status of disrepair. View a campus map showing our progress! Initiated: Early start! March 2021 Status: Expected completion Summer 2021 ACTIVE: Network Wi-Fi Upgrade Purpose To improve/expand wireless coverage across campus, provide faster speeds and better connectivity between devices. TU is the first WiFi6 enabled campus in Oklahoma, with new-to-TU coverage of outdoor spaces. At the end of the deployment we will have 802.11ax / Wi-Fi 6 available across the entire campus, including outdoor spaces. Residential, main campus academic and administrative buildings, Little Blue House, North Campus, outdoor spaces and parking lots completed. Lorton PAC is the final upgrade location and is in progress, estimated completion end-July 2021. More information about the technology, watch this video. Initiated: July 2020 Status: Estimated Completion Summer 2021 Additional Information: View additional details ACTIVE: Starfish: Analytics Purpose Implement an early alert and student success software that promotes clear communication between instructors, advisors, and students, and makes it easier for students to access the people who can support them while at the university. Starfish offers online appointment scheduling, waiting room management, and the ability for faculty and staff to document their interactions with students. Academic plans, success plans and case management features ensure the student and the campus know the next step for success. Initiated: Summer 2021 Status: Estimated completion fall 2021 Additional Information: Visit Starfish @ TU ACTIVE: TeamDynamix: Asset Management, Problem Management Purpose Provide a comprehensive support tool for technical issue tracking. Primarily utilized by IT, TeamDynamix also provides functionality for service and project management. Once completed, the TeamDynamix platform will serve as a one-stop-shop for help ticket needs, FAQ and knowledge base, asset tracking and more. Initiated: June 2021 Status: Estimated completion summer 2021 ACTIVE: Terra Dotta – Scholar and SEVIS Modules Purpose Continuously improve upon best-in-breed technology solutions to support a robust teaching and learning experience. Scholar Module: The Terra Dotta Software (TDS) Scholar Module provides a clean user interface for management of J-1 scholars and H-1B employees. The Scholar Module streamlines the sponsorship and onboarding process for international scholars and employees, by improving support of department-initiated requests and information exchange. You’ll be able to initiate J-1 scholar and H-1B employee records, loop in host departments and faculty to contribute to moving scholars through your processes, and give prospective scholars access to your online scholar record management. SEVIS Module: Creating a welcoming community for international scholars and students. More info here: https://www.terradotta.com/isss.html Initiated: July 2021 Status: Estimated completion October 2021 Additional Information: Coming soon PLANNING: Colleague Modernization Purpose Invest and improve upon our current enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution, Ellucian Colleague, to ensure best-practice use and improved efficiency and effectiveness in our administrative and academic operations. Upcoming Improvements: Workflow, Follett Book Integration, FERPA Tracking Phase 2, Student Financial Planning, Operational Data Store (ODS) Initiated: TBD Status: Planning/prioritized; Mobile CANCELED (no longer offered by Ellucian) Additional Information: As initiated PLANNING: PeopleAdmin – Performance Management Purpose Utilize a technology platform to manage employee recruitment, position management, and staff performance management for employees across campus. PeopleAdmin will integrate with our Ellucian Colleague system to contain up-to-date employee and position data. The goals of the system are to provide comprehensive, electronic access to relevant applicant, position, and performance data, and to deliver a positive user experience within the recruitment and evaluation processes. Initiated: Summer 2021 Status: Planning/prioritized COMPLETED: AdAstra: Facilities Reservations System Purpose Provide a unified method for managing physical spaces at TU. This one-stop system provides the ability to book meetings and event space across the university, for both one-time and recurring gatherings. A key benefit of TU’s new Facilities Reservation System is that it provides a campus-wide view of all rooms available, at various dates and times. Find information about each room’s capacity limits and installed technology, as well as make special requests for audio-visual equipment, room setups and catering services. In addition, in some instances the system streamlines risk-assessment approvals for smaller event requests. Initiated: June 2020 Status: October 2020 Additional Information: Visit Ad Astra Continuous Improvement Completions: Ad Astra Monitor – Summer ’21 COMPLETED: Classroom Technology Upgrades Purpose Ensure classrooms ready for hybrid/hyflex teaching options. While originally escalated in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the updates and efforts for consistency established the baseline for TU classrooms moving forward. This project played a critical role in TU’s ability to deliver quality teaching during the Covid-19 pandemic. Completed Improvements: All TU classrooms updated in some way – from comprehensive to addition of webcams/crisp audio and document cameras. Initiated: July 2020 Status: January 2021 COMPLETED: Colleague Modernization: Completed Projects Purpose Invest and improve upon our current enterprise resource planning (ERP) solution, Ellucian Colleague, to ensure best-practice use and improved efficiency and effectiveness in our administrative and academic operations. Completed Improvements: Financial Aid Packaging, Online Benefit Enrollment, Student Offer Letters, Unofficial Transcripts, Drop/Add Report, Ethos API, FERPA Tracking Phase, Slate Automation, GL Conversion/Restructure Initiated: January 2020 Status: Completed as of April 2021 Additional Information: Log-in to Colleague or Self-Service COMPLETED: Huron Initiative: Administrative Operations Improvements Purpose The University of Tulsa completed a thorough, independent review and analysis of its administrative operations with a goal of becoming more efficient and better supporting the academic enterprise. The review, assessed by The Huron Group, culminated with the finding that TU’s distributed environment, coupled with an aging technology infrastructure, has led to operational inefficiencies related to duplicative roles and processes and a relatively large administrative structure. TU implemented several of the recommendations with results that exceeded expectations. Initiated: March 2020 Status: December 2020 Additional Information: Learn more (Requires TU account) COMPLETED: Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) Purpose Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) or Two-Factor Authentication (TFA) is an authentication method that increases security using two or more methods to verify your identity before granting access to protected information. One method is already used – your username and password. MFA adds an additional method. Higher Education is a top target for security attacks. Passwords are easy to compromise by attackers and the need for a second method to verify identity helps eliminate that risk. Initiated: June 2020 Status: Completed July 2020 Additional Information: Get help with MFA COMPLETE: PeopleAdmin – Talent Management Purpose Utilize a technology platform to manage employee recruitment, position management, and staff performance management for employees across campus. PeopleAdmin will integrate with our Ellucian Colleague system to contain up-to-date employee and position data. The goals of the system are to provide comprehensive, electronic access to relevant applicant, position, and performance data, and to deliver a positive user experience within the recruitment and evaluation processes. Initiated: September 2020 Status: Summer 2021 Additional Information: Application Tracking and Position Management Complete COMPLETED: SafeZone: Safety Alert Purpose Provide additional security for students and employees anywhere on campus, anytime of day. The SafeZone mobile app connects you with Campus Security from your phone. SafeZone allows you to quickly and easily signal for emergency assistance, summon first aid or request a check-in as you walk across campus. When you send an alert or a check-in request on the app, SafeZone alerts Campus Security of your precise location on campus using GPS technology. This project played a critical role in student, faculty and staff safety during the Covid-19 pandemic by providing a contactless pocket panic button. Initiated: September 2020 Completed: October 2020 Additional Information: View additional details COMPLETED: Starfish: Advising Management Purpose Implement an early alert and student success software that promotes clear communication between instructors, advisors, and students, and makes it easier for students to access the people who can support them while at the university. Starfish offers online appointment scheduling, waiting room management, and the ability for faculty and staff to document their interactions with students. Academic plans, success plans and case management features ensure the student and the campus know the next step for success. Initiated: September 2020 Status: Summer 2021 Additional Information: Visit Starfish @ TU COMPLETED: TeamDynamix: Ticketing Purpose Provide a comprehensive support tool for technical issue tracking. Primarily utilized by IT, TeamDynamix also provides functionality for service and project management. Once completed, the TeamDynamix platform will serve as a one-stop-shop for help ticket needs, FAQ and knowledge base, asset tracking and more. Initiated: November 2020 Status: Completed June 2021 COMPLETED: Teams Only – Goodbye Skype Purpose Skype for Business will be retired on July 31, 2021, and after that date the service will no longer be accessible. Microsoft Teams is an Office 365 application that replaces Skype- it includes virtual meetings, chat (IM) and many additional features available to campus users. TU is moving to an all Microsoft Teams campus! Initiated: Fall 2020 Completed: February 2021 Additional Information: Need help? Visit help.utulsa.edu COMPLETED: Transact: Mobile Ordering Purpose Implement a mobile app for ordering of food from campus dining facilities. Includes customizable mobile ordering options, made-to-order meals and grab-and-go items from an array of eateries. Users will be able to select a dining location and the item(s) for purchase and customize, review the order, choose a payment method and then complete the order (the app will create a unique barcode). This project played an integral role in contactless ordering during the Covid-19 pandemic. Initiated: Spring 2020 Status: Completed August 17, 2020 Additional Information: View additional details 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT