Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Frequently Asked Questions FINANCIAL AID Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Your most common financial aid questions answered. Who is eligible to receive federal financial aid? Do I have to be a full-time student to receive federal financial aid? When will I receive my financial aid award? Do I have to reapply each year? Do outside scholarships affect my aid? What is the number of Federal Pell Grant recipients? What is the Freshman Retention Rate? What is the priority deadline to apply for financial aid? Where do I pick up a refund check? How do I purchase books if I haven’t received a refund yet? How do I apply for summer aid? Do TU scholarships apply to summer school? How will the Office of Student Financial Services communicate with me? How does the Work-Study program work on TU’s campus? What does it mean to be chosen for verification? What do I do if my enrollment or living situation changes during the year? Can TU talk to my parents about my financial aid? How do I become an Independent Student? How is money disbursed at TU? What is Satisfactory Academic Progress? What happens if I withdraw? Who is eligible to receive federal financial aid? Eligibility is determined by completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Students must be admitted and degree seeking in order to qualify for assistance. Enrollment must be at least half-time, with the exception of Pell recipients, in order to qualify for federal aid. Each year students need to reapply to be considered for financial aid. The amount of aid offered to a student is determined by demonstrated financial need. Financial need can be defined most simply as the difference between the amount of money the student and parent(s) can contribute from income and assets based upon a Congressionally approved analysis and the cost of attending The University of Tulsa, less outside awards. Do I have to be a full-time student to receive federal financial aid? To be considered for institutional scholarships, you do need to be enrolled full-time (12 hours or more). Students, who are enrolled in at least 6 hours and meet eligibility requirements, may be eligible for federal funds such as loans and grants. Students eligible for the Pell Grant may be enrolled less than half-time. When will I receive my financial aid award? You will be notified via your TU email account that your financing plan is available to be reviewed. Accept or decline your award electronically. Please note that if you want to reduce an amount you must print off your financing plan, make the change and return to Student Financial Services. Declining, totally or in part, any form of assistance (scholarship, grant, loan, work-study) does not automatically lead to other assistance being increased or substituted. Contact your dedicated Financial Aid Counselor in Student Financial Services to clarify your specific request. Do I have to reapply each year? Yes! You must reapply for aid each year you wish to receive assistance. Renewal of aid beyond the first year depends upon your academic record and your continued need, as based on the most recent FAFSA. Do outside scholarships affect my aid? Yes, outside scholarships may affect your eligibility for aid. Please forward that information to Student Financial Services so that we can evaluate the impact on your aid package. What is the number of Federal Pell Grant recipients? 661 (2020-2021) What is the Freshman Retention Rate? 84% What is the priority deadline to apply for financial aid? The University of Tulsa does not have a priority deadline to apply for federal financial assistance, however, it is in the best interest of the student to apply early as some federal funding is limited. Oklahoma residents participating in the Oklahoma Tuition Aid Grant (OTAG) program should apply as soon as possible after October 1, as funds will be awarded on a first come, first serve basis until depleted. Where do I pick up a refund check? If you are receiving a refund, please review the Bursar’s Office Refund Information. If you need a cash advance to buy books, please contact the Bursar’s Office in McClure Hall. They can be contacted at 918-631-2600 or at business-office@utulsa.edu. How do I purchase books if I haven't received a refund yet? Students who are Pell recipients and are receiving scholarships that cover their charges in full, must contact the Bursar’s Office to obtain information on how to purchase their required books in the bookstore. How do I apply for summer aid? If you are planning on taking summer classes and would like to be considered for federal aid, complete the Summer Financial Aid Application (available during the spring semester). Do TU scholarships apply to summer school? TU Scholarship funding does not apply for Summer courses. TU Scholarships only apply for students who are enrolled full-time for the fall and spring semesters. How will Student Financial Services communicate with me? You will receive all correspondence from Student Financial Services via your TU email account. How does the Work-Study program work on TU's campus? Read more about TU’s Work-Study program policy and procedures here. What does it mean to be chosen for verification? Click here to learn more about the Verification Process. What do I do if my enrollment or living situation changes during the year? Immediately report any change in your enrollment or living situation to Student Financial Services. Can TU talk to my parents about my financial aid? If you want the university to disclose information about your student account or financial aid with your parents, you will need to provide written consent for us to do so. Please visit https://utulsa.edu/ferpa for more information about the protections given to your education records and how to authorize TU to disclose information from your records to others. How do I become an Independent Student? You may be considered an Independent student if you can answer yes to at least one of the following: Were you born before January 1, 1998? As of today, are you married? (Also answer “Yes” if you are separated but not divorced.) At the beginning of the 2021-2022 school year, will you be working on a master’s or doctorate program (such as an MA, MBA, MD, JD, PhD, EdD, graduate certificate, etc.)?. Are you currently serving on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than training? Are you a veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces? Do you now have or will you have children who will receive more than half of their support from you between July 1, 2021 and June 30, 2022? Do you have dependents (other than your children or spouse) who live with you and who receive more than half of their support from you, now and through June 30, 2022? At any time since you turned age 13, were both your parents deceased, were you in foster care or were you a dependent or ward of the court? As determined by a court in your state of legal residence, are you or were you an emancipated minor? Does someone other than your parent or stepparent have legal guardianship of you, as determined by a court in your state of legal residence? At any time on or after July 1, 2020, did your high school or school district homeless liaison determine that you were an unaccompanied youth who was homeless or were self-supporting and at risk of being homeless? At any time on or after July 1, 2020, did the director of an emergency shelter or transitional housing program funded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development determine that you were an unaccompanied youth who was homeless or were self-supporting and at risk of being homeless? At any time on or after July 1, 2020, did the director of a runaway or homeless youth basic center or transitional living program determine that you were an unaccompanied youth who was homeless or were self-supporting and at risk of being homeless? How is money disbursed at TU? Unless otherwise noted, the amount(s) listed on the Financing Plan are yearly awards with one-half applicable to the Fall semester and one-half to the Spring semester, and credited no earlier than the first day of class each semester. Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans are estimated on a student’s Financing Plan when we receive a FAFSA. The loans are then processed through the U.S. Department of Education once the student electronically accepts their offer indicating they wish to accept the loans. The funds are credited to the student’s account once the entrance counseling and Master Promissory Note are completed at studentloans.gov. Both items must be completed before funds are received at TU. The U.S. Department of Education electronically sends TU notification of both completed documents, then the loan funds are credited to the student’s account no earlier than the first day of class each semester. A disbursement funds letter indicating the type of loan(s) and amount(s) will be emailed to the student’s TU email when funds credit. A student has the right to cancel all or any portion of the loan within 14 days of the loan crediting their account. It is the student’s responsibility to notify Student Financial Services, in writing, if they wish to reduce or cancel their student loan(s). Refunds due students as a result of financial aid funds exceeding TU charges will be processed by the TU Bursar’s Office. Please click the link to learn more about The Bursar’s Office Refund Policy. Students should have personal funds to meet necessary initial expenses such as books and supplies. Many families make funds available by establishing a checking account at a local bank. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT