Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Digital Accessibility Policy Digital Accessibility Policy Effective Date: 06/10/2021 Supersedes: None Issuing Authority: Information Technology Responsible Officer: Digital Accessibility Coordinator I. Policy Statement The University of Tulsa is committed to inclusion and providing equal access and opportunity to qualified students, faculty, staff, and visitors with disabilities through the most recent accessibility standards as set forth by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). This Policy addresses the needs of individuals who seek to use and participate in University websites, applications, programs and activities, services, and business. Digital Accessibility refers specifically to digital media content, which includes everything from websites to electronic communications. Websites and applications are measured using industry best practices according to the W3C’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1, Level AA, and the Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 for web content. The University has adopted this policy to increase the accessibility of TU’s website and web-based applications. II. Application This Policy applies to University digital media and deliverables, including websites, electronic communications, web-based applications, software, hardware, equipment, services, systems, platforms, documentation, content, and technologies, as well as third-party service providers used by the University. This includes all components, features, functionalities, upgrades, versions, and releases of these digital media types. Some examples of administrative, research and academic applications within scope of this policy include the following: websites, video content, audio content, electronic documents and books, content and learning management systems, computers and peripherals, telephones, digital signs, classroom technology, and desktop/mobile/cloud-based applications. Unless a department or site owner receives an exception, all schools, colleges, offices, departments, and University entities will adhere to the Accessibility Standards. III. Definitions Accessibility Standards refer to the most recent version of, or successor standards to, W3C’s Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1, Level AA, and the Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications Suite (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 for web content, as well as requirements of Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and Amendments, and their implementing regulations. These standards are considered minimum standards and expectations regarding digital media content. Testing/Audits refer to internal and field testing of digital media, using both automated and manual testing, to evaluate accessibility and conformance with the Accessibility Standards and WCAG Guidelines. Testing should be documented according to Website Accessibility Conformance Evaluation Methodology (WCAG-EM) 1.0, specifically, Methodology Requirement 1.c: Define the web browser, assistive technologies and other user agents for which features provided on the website are to be accessibility supported. Site Owner refers to the department or owner with responsibility over the specific digital media content, whether at the University or a third-party supplier/vendor that the University has contracted with to provide digital media content. Responsibility includes design, development, hosting, updating, and/or management of the digital media. Accessibility Standards Committee refers to a Committee that reviews Requests for Exception and holds responsibility for monitoring and tracking compliance and progress toward conformance with the Accessibility Standards. The Committee will also develop and supervise a prioritization schedule for improving accessibility and provide periodic reports to senior leadership as provided in the ADA Strategic Plan. The Committee will be comprised of members from Information Technology and University Compliance, as well as relevant others when needed. Request for Exception refers to formal, written requests submitted by departments/site owners to receive an exception to compliance with the Accessibility Standards. These requests are submitted and subject to decision by the Accessibility Standards Committee. IV. Policy The University of Tulsa is committed to upholding the standards put in place by the W3C and is continuously working to improve the user experience for all people. It is the policy of the University that all digital media content be accessible. Therefore, University digital media that are created or undergo substantial revisions or redesign are expected to conform to the Accessibility Standards in their display and experience, platforms, and infrastructure. In cases where conformance to these Accessibility Standards is not technically feasible or may require extraordinary measures and undue burden or fundamental alteration because of the nature of the information or purpose, the department/site owners may submit a Request for Exception. In general, the lack of sufficient funds is not considered a valid reason for an exception. V. Procedures A. Conformance with Accessibility Standards All University digital media as described under Application in Section II will conform to the Accessibility Standards. Departments and site owners have responsibility for conformance with the Accessibility Standards, and all departments will identify a site owner who will monitor accessibility for their digital media. University websites will indicate commitment to accessibility by including a link to the Digital Accessibility Policy as well as contact information for the site’s webmaster or manager. In cases where digital media does not currently conform, departments or site owners will begin steps to conform as of April 2021. Departments or site owners of digital media that is not in compliance with the Accessibility Standards will be required to submit a yearly action plan, or more often as requested, including concrete steps taken or to be taken each semester towards compliance until full compliance is attained. These plans should be submitted to the Accessibility Standards Committee, and departments or site owners may be asked for further information or clarification to ensure that the yearly plans make substantive progress. The expense for bringing digital media into conformance with the Accessibility Standards will be charged to the responsible department. In cases of non-conformance to the Accessibility Standards, the Accessibility Standards Committee may determine that the digital media should be removed until it can be brought into conformance. B. Testing/Audits Departments, site owners, third-party suppliers, and Information Technology will be responsible to conduct regular testing/audits of digital media under their responsibility. The testing is conducted to ensure conformance with the Accessibility Standards and will include both automated and manual testing. All Site Owners will provide a yearly written report of all testing results to the Accessibility Standards Committee, or upon request for third-party site owners. These reports should maintain a list of all tests/audits, any issues, and any resolutions, including relevant dates, for documenting accessibility efforts. Site Owners will provide notification to the Accessibility Standards Committee, through the Digital Accessibility Coordinator, of any non-conformance to the Accessibility Standards or of any accessibility complaints from users. C. Training and Awareness To assist departments and site owners with conformance to the Accessibility Standards, Information Technology, in collaboration with other knowledgeable parties (such as Student Access, the Faculty Resource Center, and University Compliance) will conduct training and awareness programming every semester. Trainings can include posted content to the Accessibility @ TU Resources page, communication to the community, hosted training, etc. D. Procurement All procurement of third-party suppliers for digital media content must comply with this Policy and the Digital Accessibility Requirements Rider. Site owners and responsible departments will ensure that contracts or renewals of contracts with third-party suppliers are accountable to the Accessibility Standards, in collaboration with Purchasing Services, Information Technology, and University Compliance. E. Requests for Exception In extraordinary circumstances, departments or site owners may submit a written Request for Exception to conformance with the Accessibility Standards. The Request for Exception should include what the request pertains to, why the request is sought, and plans for alternative means of access. These requests will be reviewed by the Accessibility Standards Committee in consultation with the department/site owner and others with relevant perspective and expertise, and the Accessibility Standards Committee will render decisions regarding exceptions. F. Reporting Accessibility Issues Anyone can report a digital accessibility concern using this form to report it (utulsa.edu/site-issue/). The Site Owners shall resolve all accessibility complaints and directly correspond with anyone who makes a complaint in a timely manner. In any cases where a person is unable to access digital media content, the requested content must be made accessible by the department or site owner, or provided by the department or site owner in an alternative format that creates equal access in a timely manner. Site Owners will maintain a list of all complaints and resolutions, including the dates of complaint and resolution, that can be provided to the Accessibility Standards Committee for documenting accessibility efforts. VI. Digital Accessibility Coordinator Please direct questions about this Policy to the Responsible Officer: Responsible Officer: Trisha Salas Digital Accessibility Coordinator trisha-salas@utulsa.edu 918-631-2607 VII. Related Policies and Forms Accommodation Request Policy Computer Standardization Policy Digital Accessibility Rider VIII. Approval This Policy is approved by the undersigned and effective as of the date written below. Name Paige Francis Title VP Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Date Effective: 06/10/2021 Revision Record Date: 6/10/2021 Version 1 Notes: Policy Enacted Click here for a printable PDF of the Digital Accessibility Policy – 2021-Jun-10 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT