Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Services HQ / Campus Services Initiatives Campus Services Initiatives From pre-enrollment to post-graduation, our comprehensive array of campus services supports students and the TU community in all aspects of their college experiences. TU has launched a number of initiatives aimed at enhancing the needs of our campus community. Check back for the latest updates. ACTIVE PLANNING COMPLETED Questions/Feedback Do you have a question or comment? Name First Last Email Questions/Feedback CAPTCHA ACTIVE: Follett ACCESS Purpose Follett ACCESS delivers significant convenience and accessibility for all undergraduate students. Follett ACCESS is a partnership between TU and the Campus Bookstore that allows you to have digital access or rent textbooks at a reduced cost. The charge is posted directly to your TU Tuition and Fees bill and can be paid along with your University charges or using financial aid. Required textbooks and course materials are free for Fall 2022 Incoming students. Initiated: Spring 2022 Status: Estimated completion June 2022 Additional Information: Continuing Upperclass Undergraduate students click here for more information Incoming/Transfer Students for Fall 2022 click here for more information ACTIVE: Pat Case Dining Hall- Summer Makeover Purpose As the campus returns to normal activity the vital hub of community life is returning. The Pat Case dining hall will be receiving an updated look that includes a new salad bar, beverage station, and omelet station. New tables and chairs, patio furniture, and pick-up food lockers with late-night meal options will enhance the dining experience. Initiated: Summer 2022 Status: Estimated completion August 2022 Additional Information: Follow us on Campus Services Facebook and Instagram ACTIVE: Student Union Updates Purpose With so many changes on campus, the Union is no exception. There are exciting and helpful recent and upcoming changes that make visiting the Union as part of your daily and nightly routine, the thing to do. The biggest and most impactful upcoming change for the Union is it will be OPEN 24/7 starting in Fall 2022. With this exciting change, there will be some new reasons to visit the Union in the middle of the night including a 24-hour convenience store. Changes to the food court are coming as well. Subway will be moving out into the food court and Sushi Blu will be moving across the food court. In Sushi Blu’s original location, there will be a brand-new event and informational concierge desk during the day and a security station for late-night security assistance. Sushi Blu will take the place of Tossed and the current Tossed venue will be expanded and will move over to be a part of the newly updated Pat Case Dining Center in Fisher Hall. Tossed will continue to be a part of the mobile order options. When your Tossed order is ready you will be able to pick up your salad in the refrigerator locker located at Pat Case. But wait . . . there’s more exciting news! The University Bookstore is temporarily returning to the Union and will take the place of the Pat Case Dining Center in the Union. Now you will have all the convenience of the bookstore and its clothing, gifts, and supplies back in an accessible location. We are upgrading the building too! We added Amazon Lockers to the east side of the South Patio, and over the summer we will be enhancing the patio with porch swings and other features to make life on the patio more inviting. All the first-floor food court booths will be redone this summer and bring with it a touch of blue. Come visit the UNION, it will excite you! Initiated: Summer 2022 Status: Estimated completion Fall 2022 Additional Information: Follow us on Campus Services Facebook and Instagram ACTIVE: StarRez Purpose Enhanced campus housing assignment system(StarRez). StarRez allows not only Housing, but many of the Campus Services areas to offer a simplified, singular solution. Before StarRez, we were balancing 4 different software applications to offer our students and staff needs. With the purchase of StarRez, Campus Services staff have more time to focus on solving student’s needs, while also offering the students a more seamless approach to their housing and parking needs. StarRez allows Campus Services to provide direct integration for multiple offices across campus such as Admissions, Bursars, Student Life, and more! Initiated: January 2022 Status: Estimated completion July 2022 PLANNING: Sorority Housing Purpose In Summer 2022, we are continuing with our improvements that started with all new lighting in the Summer of 2019. This summer we will be updating all 6 Sorority Houses with a refreshing new palette, as well as adding carpet to their common areas too! The houses will choose their professionally-designed finishes and all the houses will be completed before they return in the fall. Initiated: May 2022 Status:Estimated completion August 2022 Additional Information: Follow us on Campus Services Facebook and Instagram PLANNING: Student Union & Hurricane Hut Purpose The University plans to transform the Union to be more student-centric. With all the plans for the Union for Fall 2022, including being open 24/7, with a 24/7 convenience store, and the bookstore returning to campus (in the Union temporarily until its new home is complete), THESE ARE JUST THE BEGINNING. The University is working with students and architects to prepare plans that will transform the second floor of the Union into the ultimate student gathering spot for individual study, group study, large events, and some seriously fun study breaks! And it doesn’t stop with the second floor, because we are also preparing for an EPIC RETURN of the HURRICANE HUT. Once the bookstore is settled into its new location, the Hurricane Hut will take its new, improved, and a rightful spot at the heart of the campus . . . the UNION. Initiated: TBD Status: Planning/prioritized COMPLETED: Grubhub Purpose Provide easy, convenient food delivery from all your favorite restaurants in Tulsa or while you travel. the Grubhub app for delivery or preorder pickup is the latest addition to the where Hurricane Dollars are accepted. TU and Grubhub have partnered to provide the TU community with unlimited free delivery and exclusive perks. Initiated: October 2021 Status: Completed January 2022 Additional Information: Visit Grubhub delivers COMPLETED: Amazon Lockers Purpose Free, secure, and convenient amazon delivery pick-up system located at the Student Union. This is available for the campus community 24 hours, 7 days a week. Initiated: December 2021 Status: Completed March 2022 Additional Information: Visit Amazon Lockers COMPLETED: Hurricane Health Center powered CareATC Purpose Improve the health care for students and staff, designed to provide a more accessible and convenient option for the campus community. The Hurricane Health Center powered by CareATC provides care and treatment of minor illnesses and minor emergencies for all full- and part-time students. Also, faculty and staff, who are covered by the TU insurance plans may schedule an appointment for acute care. The center provides individualized health care with professional expertise at no cost. Initiated: December 2021 Status: Completed January 2022 Additional Information: Visit Hurricane Health Center 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT