Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Announcements / Unusual Year, Extraordinary Leadership (employee email) Unusual Year, Extraordinary Leadership (employee email) June 11, 2021 Dear TU community, Earlier this week, at our final TU Board of Trustees’ meeting of the year, the administration proposed to the board, and we approved, an operating budget based on realistic, yet conservative, revenue estimates, including funding for all FY22 strategic plan prioritieswhile maintaining fiscal discipline. At first glance this news may seem a routine process of a university conducting its business. However, given the year TU has faced, indeed that the entire country and world have endured, it is anything but normal. The TU administration dedicated FY21 to achieving a higher degree of financial stability and operational excellence, necessary precursors to pivoting to the growth strategy at the root of the strategic plan. All indications are these efforts, with a focus on financial discipline, student success and shared accountability, are starting to pay dividends. TU has been able to simultaneously invest in key growth areas of cyber, online master’s degrees, student retention and career development, building a stronger brand identity leading to stronger enrollment, all the while cutting expenses by nearly $25 million. Achieving this progress – in the middle of a pandemic – is extraordinary, and the entire community rose to the challenge. Due to the tenacity of our students, faculty and staff, TU – unlike so many universities – maintained an on-campus, hybrid presence throughout the year. The free, continuous testing program was a success and campus positivity rates were consistently below the rate in Tulsa. Finally, of course, was the vital achievement of the strategic planning process that has been overwhelmingly supported and endorsed by all those who care for this great institution. Our donors are excited, our faculty and staff are on board and working collaboratively and our prospective students, parents and new partners are sensing a moment of change and the opportunities that lie ahead. As we said, we recognize these many successes in these trying times are simply extraordinary. We also recognize the role good leadership plays in accomplishing so much in such a short period of time. Janet Levit has had a truly remarkable and positive impact on The University of Tulsa, its mission, its strategic direction and its students. In her previous role as vice president of strategic initiatives, Janet led a strategic planning process that positioned the university and the board on a path of clear institutional goals, including improving retention and graduation rates; expanding representation of diverse students, faculty and staff; and preparing students for careers in the current and future economy. As executive vice president of academic affairs and provost, Janet shepherded the university through an accreditation crisis that successfully concluded with the affirmation of TU’s Higher Learning Commission accreditation. She spearheaded the creation of the Center for Student Success, which bolstered and centralized support services to improve student outcomes and pushed the university to live up to its goal of being truly student-centered. She oversaw a process that entrusted a committee of faculty representing all colleges and the Faculty Senate to propose changes and alternative structures of the university’s academic footprint to help the university better allocate resources to achieve its strategic goals. On Jan. 30, 2020, when former President Gerry Clancy stepped down, we immediately knew to ask Janet to lead the university as interim president because of her demonstrated leadership skills, expertise and commitment to TU’s success. As she always does, she readily accepted the opportunity and assumed the role at an extraordinary moment in the institution’s history – in the immediate aftermath of a downgrade in TU’s credit rating by Moody’s Investors Services, just weeks before the COVID-19 pandemic took hold in the United States, and as the university was preparing for an interim monitoring report to the Higher Learning Commission. We all know what happened next. TU is on a stronger and more sustainable financial footing despite significant headwinds of COVID-19, and the TU community is united around a new strategic plan to carry this institution forward. What you may not know is that, even before it became a COVID thing to do, Janet was known for organizing and holding “walking meetings.” Many of the university’s leaders, trustees and other members of the TU community have participated in these walks this past year and a half. So, it seems only fitting to us that, in recognition and thanks for her tremendous service and in honor of the many walking meetings, we name the pedestrian walkway surrounding Dietler Commons “the Janet Levit Pathway.” Janet also has a passion for rowing and on occasion would spend time and exercise with the TU rowing team. She also viewed it as an apt metaphor for any successful team – one that highlights the team’s individual and collective strength, the need to work together in unison and a sense of team spirit. For this reason, the TU trustees and trustees emeriti donated funds for a new rowing team boat to be christened “The Janet K. Levit.” These are but small tokens of our profound appreciation for the tireless work and dedication Janet has demonstrated through her many roles during her time here. TU is truly a better place because of her leadership. On behalf of the entire board, we express our deep gratitude for her extraordinary contributions to The University of Tulsa. Sincerely, Dana Weber, Chair Marcia MacLeod, Vice Chair Announcements 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT