Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Forms, Guidelines, Policies Forms, Guidelines, Policies FORMS, GUIDELINES, POLICIES Accommodation Request Policy ADA Grievance Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines CONTACT US Forms To be completed by Student Student Accommodation Request Request for Change of Accommodations To be completed by Employee Employee Accommodation Request Form FMLA Request Form (military and non-military) To be completed by Psychiatrist/Psychologist/Diagnosing Physician/Licensed Health Care Provider Documentation for Students Student Accommodation Verification Form Confidential Recommendation for Assistance Animal Documentation for Employees Employee Accommodation Verification Form Certification of Health Care Provider for Employee’s Serious Health Condition Certification of Health Care Provider for Family Member’s Serious Health Condition Certification of Health Care Provider for Current Servicemember’s Serious Health Condition Certification of Health Care Provider for Veteran’s Serious Health Condition Certification for Military Family Leave for Qualifying Exigency Guidelines AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines Policies Accommodation Request Policy ADA/504 Accommodation Grievance Policy Rights and Responsibilities of Students with Accommodations FAQs A Are the Student Access forms for requesting accommodations required? Please note that the forms for requesting accommodations serve as a guide only. A medical professional may submit their own reports or documents, as long as they contain adequate information to consider accommodation requests (such as diagnosis, functional limitations, recommended accommodations). A I am a student veteran and have questions concerning my documentation, what should I do? Veterans who wish to request accommodations may make an appointment with a licensed Nurse Practitioner or Physician at the Hurricane Health Clinic or a Student Access staff member to review documentation from the VA without submitting medical records in their entirety. Only relevant diagnoses for requested accommodations will be shared in order to make an accommodation request. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT