Skip to main content Link to TU homepage × Close Menu About Student Access Accessibility Resources Campus Access Committee Digital Accessibility Accessibility@TU Staff Students Students Making An Accommodation Request Coaching Groups D-CARES Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Program Student Resources Employees Employees Making an Accommodation Request Accessibility Information for Employees Visitors Visitors Accommodations for Visitors to Campus Policies, Forms & Guidelines Forms, Guidelines, Policies Accommodation Request Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines FAQ’s Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page Accessibility @ TU > Forms, Guidelines, Policies > Accommodation Request Policy Accommodation Request Policy FORMS, GUIDELINES, POLICIES Accommodation Request Policy ADA Grievance Policy AD/HD Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Learning Disabilities (LD) Documentation Guidelines for the Diagnosing Professional Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Service and Assistance Animal Guidelines CONTACT US I. Policy Statement The purpose of this Accommodation Request Policy (“Policy”) is to address requests for reasonable accommodations for student and employee Applicants with disabilities as provided under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The University of Tulsa is committed to providing students and employees equal access to its facilities, programs, and services. Effective and efficient implementation of this commitment requires the cooperation of all of the University’s offices, departments, and personnel as well as appropriate utilization by students of the University’s services, depending on their particular situations and needs. II. Application This Policy applies to students, faculty, and staff members of the University community. III. Definitions Applicant refers to, when not specified otherwise, the student or employee making the Accommodation Request. Application means the Accommodation Request Form. Disability means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. Employee means every full- or part-time employee, including student employees. IV. Policy and Procedures A. Requesting Accommodations Individuals with disabilities are guaranteed certain protections and the right to accommodation, but the University of Tulsa is under no obligation to provide any accommodations unless an individual properly identifies as a person with a disability and supplies the necessary documentation. An individual with a disability is a person who has: a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities; a record of such impairment; or is regarded as having such an impairment. Individuals who meet the first definition of a disability (a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities) may be entitled to accommodations. Determination of eligibility, what constitutes a reasonable accommodation, and approval or change of accommodations will be made by the ADA/504 Coordinator or designee. No other office or university personnel has authority to approve an accommodation for Applicants. The University may provide alternative reasonable accommodations rather than the specific accommodation requested by the Applicant, and not all requested accommodations will necessarily be approved. However, the University will evaluate any request in light of all information available in making a determination of what is a reasonable accommodation. Temporary arrangements may be available while the University engages in an interactive process to determine whether ongoing accommodation is appropriate and, if so, which reasonable accommodations are needed; any temporary arrangements do not reflect a determination that ongoing accommodation will be granted and/or which reasonable accommodations are appropriate, and do not create an obligation on the part of the University to continue accommodation. Applicants who are approved for temporary arrangements for temporary health conditions are only allowed to use those arrangements for a limited time. B. Grievances Applicants who request an accommodation and who believe that accommodations should not have been denied, or that approved accommodations are not being implemented, should bring this matter to the ADA/504 Coordinator. If the ADA/504 Coordinator or designee is unable to resolve the matter informally or if the Applicant is not satisfied with the resolution, the Applicant should refer to the ADA/504 Grievance and Appeal Policy which is available on the University website or from relevant offices. C. Student Applicants 1. Documentation Students who wish to request accommodations must contact Student Access to initiate the request process. The ADA/504 Coordinator will make determinations about approved accommodations through an interactive process with student Applicants. This process begins with a student Applicant contacting Student Access and completing a request form and providing supporting documentation. The documentation must indicate that the impairment substantially limits a major life activity and must address the academic impact. Documentation must be appropriate and justify a need for the requested accommodation by addressing the functional limitations created by the disability and must be applicable to the request for accommodation. Requests for curricular changes (e.g., course substitutions) may require more extensive justification for academic adjustments. It is the responsibility of the Applicant who requests accommodations to provide the following, as applicable. Note: Requests from Applicants and supporting documentation are evaluated on a case by case basis. The sufficiency of documentation and requests for additional documentation will depend on the specifics of each application. Documentation prepared by appropriately certified personnel qualified to diagnose disabilities; including, but not limited to those certified or licensed as physician, educational diagnostician, learning disability specialist, or psychologist. Documentation of the testing procedures followed, the instruments used to assess the disability, the test results, and the interpretation of the results. Diagnosis of some disorders must meet specific criteria, for example, the diagnosis of Learning Disabilities, Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder or similar conditions. Contact Student Access or the ADA/504 Coordinator for more information. Documentation specifying recommended accommodations, which will be taken into consideration when identifying reasonable academic and non- academic adjustments. Documentation reflecting the individual’s present achievement level. This must be as comprehensive as possible, and to be in the student’s best interests, must usually be dated no more than three years prior to the student’s request for services. Documentation supporting certain academic adjustments may include test results for the following characteristics: intelligence, vocabulary, reading rate, reading comprehension, spelling, mathematical comprehension, memory, and processing skills, which are required for most disabilities involving intellectual functioning. Additional testing results or additional appropriate documentation of the disability as determined by the ADA/504 Coordinator. Documentation should be sent directly from the service provider to Student Access. A more thorough explanation of the requirements for documentation is available on the University of Tulsa website or from Student Access. 2. Confidentiality Written permission must be granted for review of the documentation directly with the responsible professional and/or other appropriate University officials in order to clarify or better understand how to best accommodate the specific disability without compromising academic performance standards or graduation requirements. All information submitted concerning the disability is considered confidential and will be released to instructors or others only with written consent from the student or in compliance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. 3. Authority to Provide Accommodations Faculty and other personnel are to provide accommodations only according to the official written accommodation statement, which is provided to instructors by e-mail. This section will not cover accommodations for a student as an employee; accommodations in the workplace must be separately requested through the ADA/504 Coordinator. 4. Admissions and Enrollment Admission requirements for students with disabilities are the same as for all other students. Reasonable accommodations will be made upon proof both of disability, need for the accommodation and reasonableness. However, Applicants attending the University of Tulsa must be otherwise qualified to attend and participate in its academic programs. Accommodations for Applicants are not intended to and do not guarantee success or level of academic achievement. Therefore, in addition to the specific accommodations provided, the University encourages utilization of auxiliary services available to all Applicants to maximize opportunities for success. The University does not seek information about disabilities during the admissions process and students are not required to provide such information. Applicants with documented disabilities will be allowed to enroll prior to the regular enrollment date. 5. Adjustments of Course Load Applicants with documented disabilities that the University believes warrant the adjustment of carrying less than a full-time course load can be determined eligible for full-time student status. In such cases, the Applicant must provide documentation of need for a reduced course load, which will be submitted to the ADA/504 Coordinator or designee for consideration. Accommodations for a reduced course load must be reconsidered each semester and may require additional documentation. Applicants should check as needed with appropriate departments regarding eligibility requirements such as Financial Aid, Athletics, internship placements, etc. 6. Prior Accommodations Some accommodations provided at the secondary school level are not appropriate at the collegiate level, and Applicants must prepare accordingly. Applicants may wish to provide information about past accommodations to assist in the accommodation request process, and documents such as IEPs and 504 plans may be appropriate documentation in some circumstances. However, the Americans with Disabilities Act, including its amendments, focuses on providing access, not guaranteeing success. The University of Tulsa and the ADA/504 Coordinator are committed to working with students to identify accommodations to support students’ full access to educational programs and opportunities. The institution is not required to provide accommodations that would fundamentally alter its programs or create an undue burden on the University. 7. Off-Campus Accommodations Accommodations for off-campus placement, such as internships, study abroad or other experiential programs may be subject to limitations beyond the control of the university. Students seeking accommodations for such off-campus programs should do so as far in advance as possible, so that Student Access can attempt to work with the off-campus site in the best interest of the student’s educational opportunity. 8. Modification of Accommodations Appropriate modifications of accommodations will be determined on a case-by-case basis and will not necessarily incorporate all requested changes. Requests must be submitted in writing utilizing the Request for Change in Accommodations form. 9. Use of Student Access Students believing they need auxiliary services, such as readers, interpreters, or note takers, etc. should discuss these needs with Student Access. In addition to discussing appropriate education modification, Student Access will serve as liaisons with university faculty and administration on behalf of students with disabilities. 10. Services not Provided The University of Tulsa does not offer students with disabilities the following: Special classes Special Tutorial Program A reduced standard for academic performance Exemption to graduation requirements Credit for effort in place of demonstrated competence in course or subject content A substantial change or alternation in the course of study Additionally, students with disabilities are encouraged to take advantage of the following related services available to all students at the university through the Student Success Center: Free tutoring Individual, confidential conferences about individual concerns General study skills, time management, and goal setting assistance Referral to qualified resources for diagnostic evaluation of learning and other disabilities at the student’s expense Success coaching and individualized assistance for improve study strategies Psychological support through referrals to the Office of Counseling and Psychological Services Students’ responsibilities are further delineated in the Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations Policy, which is available online and through Student Access. D. Employee Applicants 1. Implementation The Office of Human Resources in conjunction with the ADA/504 Coordinator will be responsible for the management, implementation and coordination of The University of Tulsa Accommodation Requests Policy. Supervisors must contact the Office of Human Resources before transferring, demoting or terminating the employment of an employee, modifying a position or relieving an employee of job responsibilities because of a disability. 2. Documentation The Applicant’s documentation must indicate that the impairment substantially limits a major life activity and must address the workplace impact. Documentation must be appropriate and justify a need for the requested accommodation by addressing the functional limitations created by the disability and must be applicable to the request for accommodation. Documentation must be prepared or completed by appropriately certified personnel qualified to diagnose disabilities, and should specify relevant diagnoses, functional limitations, and recommended accommodations. The University reserves the right to request additional medical examinations, evaluations or other appropriate information at the University’s expense. Medical information or medical examinations may be required when an employee wishes to return to work after an injury or illness, if it is job-related and consistent with business necessity: to determine if the individual meets the ADA definition of “individual with a disability,” if an accommodation has been requested; to determine if the person can perform essential functions of the job currently held with or without reasonable accommodation; to identify an effective, reasonable accommodation that would enable the person to perform essential job functions in the current (previous) job, or in a vacant job for which the person is qualified. Written permission must be granted for review of the documentation directly with the responsible professional and/or other appropriate University officials in order to clarify or better understand how to best accommodate the specific disability without compromising work performance standards or requirements. 3. Accommodations The University of Tulsa will attempt to reasonably accommodate all Applicants with disabilities, where to do so does not impose an undue burden on the institution. However, what constitutes either a reasonable accommodation or an undue hardship is contingent upon a number of variables. A reasonable accommodation may include the purchase of special equipment, changing the physical layout of the workplace, restructuring specific job responsibilities and duties, modifying the work schedule, leave, etc. 4. Confidentiality All information relating to an accommodation request is considered private and is maintained separately from the employee’s personnel file. These records may only be shared with select administrators and others with a “need to know” as determined by the University in compliance with relevant policies and laws (e.g., Human Resources, employee’s supervisor). E. Visitors The University of Tulsa promotes inclusion in all activities and programs and will attempt to assist all individuals to enable participation. This includes people attending or accessing TU programs/services/facilities, such as prospective students, parents/families, alumni, job applicants, patrons, and invited guests. Visitors should contact the campus program or sponsoring group to request help with personal needs and accessibility by calling 918-631-2000 or visiting the Events Calendar for contact information. Visitors may contact the Lorton Performing Arts Center and the Student Union for events in those locations. For athletic events, contact the Ticketing Office or view Seating Charts in those facilities. For parking, contact Parking Services. Additionally, visitors may view the accessibility features of TU facilities on the ADA Accessibility Campus Map. For assistance regarding accommodations for disabilities, please contact the ADA/504 Coordinator, Dr. Tawny Rigsby (918-631-2334). F. Procedure for Accommodations 1. Notification Students with disabilities who seek accommodations are not required to notify the ADA/504 Coordinator and should proceed to Step 2. Employees with disabilities who seek accommodations must notify either the ADA/504 Coordinator or the appropriate supervisor of their disability. Supervisors will direct employees to the ADA/504 Coordinator for requesting accommodations. 2. Request for Accommodations Student Applicants with disabilities who seek accommodations must complete an “Student Accommodation Request Form.” Applicants are encouraged to submit this Application before the academic term for which the accommodation is requested. Accommodations may be made during the term upon late submission of the form, but will not serve to alter prior grading or academic status. To avoid delay due to multiple requests made at the beginning of each term, students requesting accommodations (including any changes) are encouraged to submit all documentation no later than one month prior to the beginning of the term for which the accommodations are requested. For employee Applicants, the ADA/504 Coordinator or representative will provide the employee with the Employee Accommodation Request Form and the Employee Accommodation Verification Form to be completed in order to evaluate an expressed disability. 3. University Review To determine accommodations in accordance with the University’s obligation under federal law, the completed Application will be reviewed by the ADA/504 Coordinator in consultation with any relevant others (e.g., Professors, Supervisors). To determine whether the accommodation is reasonable for student Applicants, the ADA/504 Coordinator may analyze the particular disability, functional limitations, and whether the requested accommodation: (1) fundamentally alters the nature of the activity or program; (2) alters or removes essential requirements; (3) lowers academic standards; and (4) presents an undue burden on the University; as well as whether the student poses a direct threat to the safety of themselves or others or the public. For employee Applicants, the ADA/504 Coordinator considers that employee’s essential job functions and any functional limitations, in addition to: (1) the Applicant’s particular disability: (2) the employment position; (3) whether the accommodation places an undue burden on the University; and (4) whether the employee poses a direct threat to themselves or others. Both Student and Employee Applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis. 4. Response It is the goal of the University to issue a written response within twenty (20) working days of receiving the Applicant’s written request and all pertinent documents, based on the university work calendar. When the student applicant is found eligible for services, the applicant must meet with a Student Access staff member for discussion about accommodations and to review rights and responsibilities. For employees, a decision letter will be sent to the applicant to be signed and returned to the Office of Human Resources for file. Human Resources will manage the implementation of any approved accommodations, in coordination with the appropriate supervisor as needed. G. Related Policies ADA/504 Grievance Policy Rights and Responsibilities of Students Using Accommodations 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES Accommodation Request Forms, Guidelines, Policies Frequently Asked Questions Contact Student Access SITE POLICIES Digital Accessibility Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Social Media Policy Experienced access discrimination? REPORT A CONCERN © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie SettingsAccept All Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT