Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / About The University of Tulsa / Presidential Lecture Series / About Darcy O’Brien About Darcy O’Brien PRESIDENTIAL LECTURE Previous Speakers About Darcy O’Brien Contributors to the Endowment Sign Up for Emails As the Irish poet and Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney wrote of The Hidden Pope, the final work of his late friend Darcy O’Brien: “The book is tenor and cantor, a caravel of sweetness and sorrows, lovely proof of what Wilfred Owen called ‘the eternal reciprocity of tears’ … The narrative leads deep into so much that is essential and atrocious in the history of the age … it is one of the great stories of the century told by the right storyteller.” The Darcy O’Brien Endowed Chair at The University of Tulsa honors and celebrates the life of a writer, scholar, teacher and friend. Darcy O’Brien, award-winning author and scholar Although a chronological overview of O’Brien’s life would most likely open with his Hollywood childhood, it seems appropriate to begin at the end, with the publication of O’Brien’s last and perhaps greatest work, The Hidden Pope, which was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. The book provides an account of the lifelong friendship between Pope John Paul II and Jerzy Kluger, a Jewish man who grew up with the future pontiff in the small Polish village of Wadowice. Of all O’Brien’s books, and there were many, The Hidden Pope captures with profound simplicity and grace one of the archetypal themes of the 20th century — the forging of understanding and respect across cultural and religious lines. That this heroic theme unfolds through the story of a small-town boyhood friendship is classic O’Brien. He was, after all, a writer who kept his radar in search of real people. Perhaps this is why O’Brien, while inspired to examine a subject as lofty as ecumenical goodwill, also found himself at home in prisons and police stations interviewing the accused and their accusers. Darcy O’Brien was born in Los Angeles, the son of actors George O’Brien and Marguerite Churchill. Despite the glamour of a childhood immersed in the star-studded milieu of Hollywood, O’Brien chose to pursue the life of a scholar — and he went east to receive his formal training. An outstanding student, he earned a bachelor’s degree with cum laude honors from Princeton University, and then spent a year at Cambridge University as a Fulbright Scholar. Upon his return to the United States, O’Brien moved back to the West, earning a master’s degree and doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley. With such impressive academic credentials, it is not surprising that O’Brien’s first published work was scholarly, The Conscience of James Joyce (1968). Despite his later success as both a novelist and nonfiction writer, O’Brien retained a strong foothold in the academic world. He published two additional scholarly works, W.R. Rodgers (1971) and Patrick Kavanaugh (1975), plus a continuous stream of articles and essays. In addition, the list of academic fellowships O’Brien received is long and distinguished: a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, a Fulbright Fellowship, a Mellon Foundation Fellowship and a Guggenheim Fellowship. O’Brien’s first work of fiction, A Way of Life, Like Any Other (1977), won the Ernest Hemingway Award for Best First Novel. In it, O’Brien called upon his Hollywood childhood to craft the bittersweet story of a young boy growing up in a silver screen dream world that inevitably tarnishes. As the novelist Thomas Flanagan said of the book: “I would pay hard cash, silver dollars on the barrelhead as the cowboy star father would have put it, to have written that first page of Darcy’s first novel … ” O’Brien went on to write three more novels, Moment By Moment (1978), The Silver Spooner (1981) and Margaret in Hollywood (1991). Alongside these works of fiction, O’Brien also began to explore another literary form, one that brought him into a world far less idyllic than that of make-believe and the movies. In 1981, O’Brien’s roommate from his undergraduate days at Princeton, Ronald George, served as the judge in a famous murder trial involving two men known as the Hillside Stranglers. O’Brien became fascinated with the case and began research for Two of a Kind: The Hillside Stranglers (1985). The book was destined to become a best seller, an NBC television film, and a standard text in criminology and psychology courses still studied today. Now-retired Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California, Ronald George acknowledges that while he introduced O’Brien to a “life of crime,” it was O’Brien who introduced him to something far greater. As the Chief Justice wrote in a tribute to O’Brien in 1998: “I can say without exaggeration that I credit Darcy with as much of my intellectual awakening and ultimate education — and with the continuing interests that I have today — as I do my college alma mater.” The ability to inspire intellectual curiosity made O’Brien as powerful in the classroom as he was passionate about his art. His courses at Pomona College and The University of Tulsa were always popular, always full and always alive with intellectual rigor and more than a touch of irreverence — the legendary wit and originality that made him a favorite with students. O’Brien, both in person and on the printed page, had a genius for making his subject matter come alive. He brought to his teaching, as to his writing, an ability to empathize with others and distill details into their luminous essence. O’Brien also possessed an unusually wide range of affinities and interests, writing on topics as diverse as a child’s coming-of-age and the criminal mind. There is little doubt that he was as comfortable evoking sentimentality as he was entering the mind of a serial killer. O’Brien’s first success in crime writing led to three more nonfiction books: Murder in Little Egypt (1989), which was nominated for the Edgar Allan Poe Award for Best Non-Fiction Crime Book; A Dark and Bloody Ground (1993); and Power to Hurt (1996), which won the Edgar Allan Poe Award and was cited as the authoritative background for a case heard by the U.S. Supreme Court that same year. In these works, O’Brien explored the complex theme of good vs. evil, capturing that universal duel in prose that was as lyrical as it was foreboding. O’Brien had an eye for telling detail, an ear for the subtle nuance — and a natural born ability to reveal the psychological underpinnings of his characters. As both artist and academic, O’Brien was an active and contributing member of many professional organizations including the Authors Guild of America, P.E.N. New York City Center, Mystery Writers of America and Screen Writers Guild. He served on the editorial boards of the James Joyce Quarterly and the American Irish Historical Society. He also gave back to the literary community that so richly rewarded him, serving as a member of the nominating jury in fiction for the 1998 Pulitzer Prize. In 1999, O’Brien was posthumously awarded the Religious Communicators Council’s Wilbur Award for The Hidden Pope. O’Brien’s wife, Suzanne, and daughter, Molly, accepted the interfaith award for promoting religious tolerance and values in a special ceremony at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. A 1997 inductee into the Oklahoma Writers Hall of Fame, O’Brien also was honored by the state when Gov. Frank Keating proclaimed May 7, 1998, as Darcy O’Brien Day. In a career marked by the publication of 11 highly regarded books of fiction and nonfiction, O’Brien published a staggering number of articles, essays and reviews in publications including The New York Times, New York Magazine, The Los Angeles Times, The New Yorker, the Irish Times and the James Joyce Quarterly. O’Brien’s credentials also included dozens of professional presentations as both critic and creative writer, technical consulting for the film adaptation of his own books and the cinematic projects of others, serving on many master’s degree and doctoral committees at TU, and public outreach through lectures, workshops and readings. It seems fitting here to share the words of the Irish poet Richard Murphy, who invokes the name of a fellow countryman in describing O’Brien’s penchant for a good scoop and an even better story: “Like Seamus Heaney, Darcy always kept his ear and feet close to the ground.” Indeed, with the creation of the Darcy O’Brien Endowed Chair at The University of Tulsa, it is our intention to honor O’Brien’s legacy by selecting as distinguished visitors those kindred spirits who likewise find their muse “close to the ground.” 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT