Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Reporting Sexual Violence Title IX Coordinator 918-631-2321 (Report + Option to File Complaint) Survivor Advocate 918-631-2965 (Confidential) More Resources SEXUAL VIOLENCE PREVENTION & EDUCATION Reporting Sexual Violence Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Advocacy Alliance Campus Climate Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies & Laws Alcohol & Consent Frequently Asked Questions You may choose to report to law enforcement, you may choose to report through our campus disciplinary process, you may report to both, or you may choose to access neither of these options. The University of Tulsa will protect your identity in publicly available information, such as within our annual security report or in warning sent to the campus community. You can also access the accommodations listed below (see Requesting Accommodations and Interim Measures) regardless of where you choose to report, and we will keep these accommodations private as well, as long as it does not limit our ability to provide them to you. If we would need to share information in order to provide accommodations, we would notify you of what information needs to be shared, why, and with whom, prior to sharing the information. On Campus Reporting There are people on and off campus who can support you in reporting to law enforcement if you choose to do so. If you are ready to report to the university: You can contact the Title IX Coordinator at 918-631-2321. They can assist you in notifying Campus Security and, if you are ready, community law enforcement. They can help connect you to other people and resources on our campus. Regardless of whether or not you report to the police: You may file a report with the Title IX Coordinator at any time. Filing a report will allow you to receive support and assistance in order to ensure your safety and well-being. Filing a report with does not obligate you to proceed with a formal hearing process. However, please note that by filing a report , the University is obligated under Title IX to investigate the report if risk is posed to the university community. The University will take all reasonable steps to investigate and respond to the complaint consistent with your request not to pursue an investigation. To file a report you can call 918-631-2321. Another option is that a campus security officer can also be summoned by pressing the red button on any of the emergency phones (blue lights) or the phones outside residence halls located throughout the campus community. You can also visit Campus Security. They are located in the Mabee Gym, with the entrance on the east side. Campus Security Officers are trained to respond to survivors of sexual violence. You may request a female or male officer to meet you, and you may also consider contacting a Primary Contact (see above) or a DVIS Advocate to be with you when filing. In filing a report, you will be asked to provide a description of what occurred, in order to better investigate the complaint and to provide more detail for a hearing, if you choose to proceed with that option. If you choose to file a university complaint and proceed with a hearing, Campus Security acts as the primary investigator and will submit their findings to the Dean of Students in order to proceed with a hearing. Filing a Formal University Complaint and the Hearing Process By choosing to file a University Complaint, you are not obligating yourself to proceed with a hearing and you may choose to have your identity remain confidential or your report to remain anonymous. Both of these options will be discussed below. Additionally, it is important to note that the following procedures are for acts of violence perpetrated by a TU student against a TU student (Law School students have additional rules and procedures), when both you and the alleged perpetrator are still enrolled at the University. There is no time limit to file a complaint; however, the University will be unable to proceed with an investigation and hearing once the alleged perpetrator has left the University. If you have experienced an act of sexual violence by a staff or faculty member, the process will be different (explained below). If you have experienced an act of sexual violence by a non-TU person, then the University will be unable to hear the complaint. However, they will assist you in receiving support and navigating the legal process if you choose to file with the police. If you choose to move forward with a formal complaint and hearing process, here are the steps: Filing a Complaint You will file a University Complaint with the Title IX Coordinator. An investigation will be conducted without regard to any criminal jurisdiction investigation. Please note that the University is obligated by law to conduct a thorough investigation as promptly as is possible. At the conclusion of the investigation, Hearing Officer will convene the University Student Conduct Board to hear the complaint you have filed. The University Student Conduct Board is made up of a Conduct Officer who is trained in hearing cases of sexual violence and who are bound by strict confidentiality guidelines. Everything that occurs within the hearing is confidential. During the hearing process, the officer will have a chance to hear from you, the alleged perpetrator, and any witnesses. You are not required to be in the same room as the alleged perpetrator and you have the right to request to remain separated from the alleged perpetrator. Additionally, the following apply: 1. Both parties will be able to present witnesses and evidence; 2. Attorneys are permitted to participate in the hearing for both parties. Students will be allowed breaks to step outside the hearing to speak with their attorneys; 3. Neither party will be allowed to question or cross examine the other; 4. Both parties will have the opportunity to appeal; 5. The past sexual history of the student filing the complaint and alleged perpetrator will be deemed irrelevant to the proceeding process unless something within that history may be related directly to the incident being heard; and 6. A decision will be based on the following standard: that it is more likely than not that the alleged behavior occurred, sometimes referred to as the preponderance of the evidence. Both parties will be notified concurrently in writing about the outcome of the complaint. Both parties will also be notified of the appeal process as both have the right to appeal a decision whether or not the accused was found responsible. If the alleged perpetrator is found responsible, possible sanctions may include disciplinary probation, suspension or dismissal. Additionally, the University, where possible, and for the welfare of the survivor, will make adjustments in such things as housing assignments and enrollment. The University will also take steps to prevent reoccurrence of any harassment and to correct its discriminatory effects on the complainant and others if appropriate If the alleged perpetrator is a student athlete, or otherwise involved in a campus wide extracurricular activity, the University reserves the right to suspend the student from such activity. This action will be recommended by the Office of the Dean of Students, with the input of the Head Coach and Athletic Director or other activity leader and the final decision will be made by the President of the University. Confidentiality and Anonymous Reporting If you would like to file a University Complaint, but would like to maintain anonymity or confidentiality, there are additional options for you. Please note, however, that there are limitations in investigating and in confidentiality measures in these cases. Retaliation It is important to note here that Title IX prohibits retaliation and that University officials will not only take steps to prevent retaliation but also take strong responsive action if it occurs. Acts of reprisal, revenge and retribution are all considered retaliation and a violation of Title IX and University policy. It is important to discuss these concerns with the Dean of Students Office or a Primary Contact before you decide to maintain confidentiality/anonymity, as doing so will limit what the University can do. Confidentiality and Reporting Without Pursuing Complaint If you choose to file a University complaint, but you request confidentiality or ask that the complaint not be pursued, the University will take all reasonable steps to investigate and respond to the complaint consistent with the request for confidentiality or the request not to pursue an investigation. In these cases where you do not want your name or other identifiable information disclosed, the University’s ability to respond may be limited. The University will need to evaluate your request in the context of its responsibility to provide a safe and nondiscriminatory environment for all students, which includes considering such factors as: the seriousness of the alleged harassment; the complainant’s age; whether there have been other harassment complaints against the same individual; and the alleged perpetrator’s rights to receive information about the allegations if the information is maintained as an “educational record” under FERPA. This means that the University may be required by law to take some form of action, or, may not be able to take any action at all. Anonymous Reporting Students do have the right and ability to anonymously report an act of sexual violence as victims, perpetrators, or witnesses of the act. The process of anonymous reporting is currently only available in person. However, there is an online form that will be available shortly. To anonymously report, you are encouraged to meet with a Primary Contact or stop by the Dean of Students Office and request a student complaint form. Anyone in the Primary Contact can provide you with a paper form where you can anonymously report the incident. You may also visit a Counselor in the Counseling Center on campus to anonymously report and receive confidential support, information or follow-up care as desired Help During and After Business Hours Help during regular business hours Title IX Coordinator: 918-631-2321 TU DVIS Advocate: 918-631-2965* Office of Violence Prevention: 918-631-2324 Dean of Students: 918-631-2510 Campus Security: 918-631-5555 Help after regular business hours DVIS 24-hour line: 918-743-5763 Campus Security: 918-631-5555 *ask to speak to the on-call counselor Please see the campus disciplinary process sections for more information about pursuing an investigation under campus policy. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT