Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Information Technology @ TU / Policies/Guidelines / TU Ethics Code & Computer Use Policy TU Ethics Code & Computer Use Policy INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY About IT Applications IT Security Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services Project Management Notes from IT Archive University Initiatives Get Tech Help TU Portal Adopted Oct 4, 1993; revised July 26, 1995; revised July 23, 2004 Purpose To establish policy to ensure the provision of computer and telecommunication resources and services to the faculty, staff, and students, as well as outside clients of The University of Tulsa (TU). This policy applies to the use of all institutional data regardless of the office in which it resides or the format (paper, film, electronic, etc.) in which it is used. The following policy, rules, and conditions apply to all users of TU computer and telecommunication resources and services. Violations of this policy are unethical and possibly unlawful. In accordance with established University practices, violations may result in disciplinary action that could result in expulsion from the University or dismissal from a position, and/or legal action. Policy TU strives to provide all computer users with privacy and a fair share of technical resources. All computer users have the responsibility to use the TU computer resources in an efficient, effective, ethical, and lawful manner consistent with the Rules and Regulations of the University. The ethical and legal standards that all users should maintain are derived directly from standards of common sense and common decency that apply to the use of any public resource within the University and are documented in the local, state, and federal statutes and The University of Tulsa codes, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures. The University of Tulsa seeks to protect computer-based information, recognized as a primary administrative, educational and research asset, from accidental or intentional unauthorized modification, misuse, destruction, disruption, or disclosure. In order to make every reasonable effort to protect the integrity of its computing systems, workstations, networks, lab facilities, etc., the University has the right to monitor its computing resources. TU has an obligation to respect the privacy of a user’s files, electronic mail, and printer listings to the best of its ability. With reasonable cause for suspicion, TU has the right to monitor any and all aspects of a system, including individual login sessions to determine if a user is acting in violation of the policies set forth in this document or as stated by law. The issuance of a password or other means of access is to assure appropriate confidentiality of university files and information and does not guarantee privacy for personal or improper use of university equipment or facilities. USERS MUST ABIDE BY ALL SOFTWARE LICENSES, TU COPYRIGHT AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICIES AND APPLICABLE FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS. (As an example, talking points for “SELECTED OKLAHOMA STATUTES AFFECTING USE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS” are posted at https://utulsa.edu/information-technology/policies-guidelines/http://www.is.utulsa.edu/policies/) Users are responsible for safeguarding his or her user identification (ID) and password. Users should not print, store on-line, or give his or her password to others. The user is responsible to make authorized usage of the ID for its intended purpose only. Each user is responsible for all transactions made under the authorization of his or her ID. Computer users shall not intentionally seek, provide, or modify information in or obtain copies of files, programs, keystrokes, or passwords belonging to other computer users without the permission of those other computer users. This includes all system files and accounts. Files controlled by individual users are considered private, whether or not they are accessible by other users. A user must obtain written permission from the owner of a file to alter or copy a file that does not belong to him or her. The ability to read, alter or copy a file does not imply permission to read, alter or copy that file. Each account owner and workstation user is solely responsible for the usage incurred through her/his account or workstation. Individuals who intentionally abuse accounts and privileges, degrade system performance, misappropriate computer resources or interfere with the operation of the computer and/or telecommunication facilities are subject to disciplinary action. The removal, modification, or reconfiguration of files on TU computer hardware or software is prohibited. The electronic communication facilities are not to be used for the transmission of commercial or personal advertisements, solicitations, promotions, destructive programs, political material, or any other unauthorized or personal use. The development and/or use of self-replicating code is allowed only under the direction of the academic faculty and Computing and Information Resources. Computer users will use network links solely for the purpose permitted in the network guidelines (e.g., Internet1, Internet2, National Lambda Rail). Users are responsible for obtaining and adhering to all network acceptable use policies. The ability to connect to other systems through the network does not imply the right to connect to these systems or to make use of these systems unless properly authorized by the owners of those systems. Users share many resources, such as disk space, CPU cycles, printer queues, batch queues, login sessions, software licenses, etc. No user may monopolize these resources and should utilize these resources only to the extent necessary for purposes related to authorized use. Computer users shall not intentionally develop or use programs or devices that harass other computer users or that infiltrate the system and/or damage the software or hardware components of the system. Users have the right not to be harassed whether it be by physical, verbal, electronic, or other form of abuse and may complain or bring formal grievance through appropriate channels where the abuse complained of is by a TU authorized user, whether on or off campus. Although each user has the right to freedom of speech, harassing or defamatory material may not be sent via electronic mail or posted to electronic bulletin boards, news groups, etc. Use of the electronic communication facilities (such as electronic mail, telephone mail, or systems with similar functions) to send fraudulent, harassing, obscene, indecent, profane, intimidating, or other unlawful messages is prohibited. Users will not aid, abet, or act in conspiracy with another to violate any part of these policies, rules, and conditions. Occasional proper personal use of computer equipment and software is permitted when personal use does not interfere with expected work performance or violate any applicable policy, rule, or law. An employee’s performance appraisal may take into account personal use and a supervisor may require a change in personal use as a condition of employment where appropriate. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT