Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / About The University of Tulsa / Points of Pride Points of Pride ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY Our Mission Strategic Plan President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts VISIT CAMPUS REQUEST INFORMATION By the Numbers More nationally competitive scholarship winners than all other Oklahoma colleges combined Freshmen receiving financial assistance: 100% Freshman retention rate: 82% Freshmen in Top 10% of their high school class: 54% Rankings A Top 100 private research institution and Oklahoma’s highest-ranked private university (U.S. News & World Report) No. 179 among all 800 U.S. research universities and liberal arts colleges (Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education) No. 7 among Best Colleges for Engineering Majors (Money.com) No. 79 best value among all national universities (U.S. News & World Report) No. 20 among universities that emphasize science, technology, engineering and math (Forbes) No. 1 university in Oklahoma (Wall Street Journal and WalletHub.com) No. 68 on the Grateful Graduates Index (Forbes) Listed in The Princeton Review’s The Best 386 Colleges guide Listed in The Princeton Review’s Best Value Colleges guide Listed in The Princeton Review’s Guide to Green Colleges: 2021 Edition Listed among “America’s Top Colleges” by Forbes and the Center for College Affordability and Productivity Listed in Fiske Guide to Colleges Distinctions Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge involves TU’s youngest students in advanced research and faculty mentorship. A unique agreement with City of Tulsa allows TU to manage the world-renowned Gilcrease Museum. TU students and employees volunteered more than 76,000 community service hours in 2019-20 through the True Blue Neighbors program. Oklahoma Center for the Humanities at TU promotes critical thought, ethical inquiry, bold imagination and respect for the diversity of human experience. TU, named the greenest university in Oklahoma, powers its renowned Case Tennis Center through rooftop solar panels. College of Engineering & Natural Sciences The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences has been ranked among the top 25 STEM Colleges by Forbes America’s Best Colleges. The College of Engineering and Natural Sciences reports an overall placement rate of 95% (employed and graduate school). TU’s cyber security program is ranked No. 23 by U.S. News (tied with Harvard). Cyber Corps and the Institute for Information Security train students to defend against cyber attacks on our country, companies and infrastructure. The Tandy School of Computer Science is recognized as a designated Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, Cyber Defense Education, IA Research and Cyber Operations. McDougall School of Petroleum Engineering is ranked No. 3 among petroleum engineering graduate schools and No. 5 among undergraduate PE schools by U.S. News. Make a Difference Engineering (MADE@TU) initiative designs and fabricates mobility and developmental devices for disabled children and adults in the community. Kendall College of Arts & Sciences 96% placement rates in jobs or graduate school Students regularly win competitive awards such as the Harry S. Truman Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, Fulbright Scholarship and the Vance and Betty Lee Stickell Student Internship. Since its inception more than 25 years ago, Third Floor Design, TU’s student-run graphic design studio, has provided quality, pro-bono design work for 216 agencies valued at $1.5 million. All 140 student interns over the years have had a 100% job placement rate after graduation. Psychology research (via Tulsa Institute for Trauma, Adversity & Injustice) includes post-traumatic stress disorder, sleep disturbance and pain tolerance information. Oxley College of Health Sciences Advanced partnership with Laureate Institute for Brain Research; projects include Alzheimer’s disease and anxiety Only Nurse Anesthesia doctor of nursing practice program in Oklahoma (began August 2020) Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) and Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (AG-ACNP) doctor of nursing practice programs accredited by ACEN Highest ranked DNP program in Oklahoma (U.S. News) 100% first-time pass rate for all graduate students — athletic training, speech-language pathology, FNP and AG-ACNP — who took their respective certification/licensure exam in the spring/summer 2020 (this includes students who graduated in the spring and summer 2020) Entire first two cohorts of FNP and AG-ACNP graduates (2019 and 2020) passed certification exams State-of-the-art Lawson Clinical Simulation Center Home to the Tulsa chapter of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship Annual Route 66 Conference on Communication Disorders (25th anniversary in 2020) Extensive clinical experiences: Students involved: 205 Clinical hours: 44,929 Patients/clients seen: 13,793 Sites: 122 Collins College of Business Fewer than one-third of business schools in the United States are accredited by AACSB International — The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. TU is one of only two private universities in Oklahoma to hold this distinction. The School of Energy Economics, Policy & Commerce prepares students for the energy industry and houses one of only 10 AAPL-approved energy management programs in the nation. Student teams regularly place in the top spots in the Love’s Entrepreneur’s Cup. TU finance students actively manage the Student Investment Fund, a portfolio with a value of more than $8 million in 2022, which places it among the Top 25 in the nation. In addition to providing real-stakes, real-dollar financial management experience, the fund provides earnings that subsidize scholarships for finance students. Eight times a year, the Friends of Finance executive speakers series brings leading executives to the TU campus to share their knowledge and explore important business issues. Students have access to a state-of-the-art trading floor learning environment that includes 12 Bloomberg terminals. College of Law Top 25 Best Value Law School among Public and Private Schools (preLaw Magazine) No. 10 for job placement (American Bar Association) No. 16 for bar passage (American Bar Association) No. 74 for clinical program (American Bar Association) Top 5 Best Value Private Law School (preLaw Magazine) Best Law Building (preLaw Magazine) Top 5 Best School for American Indians (preLaw Magazine) Two renowned journals: Energy Law Journal and Tulsa Law Review 19 diverse student organizations Five clinics 150+ externship partners across the country Athletics 17 NCAA Division I teams A league-best nine American Athletic Conference championships during the first two years of membership Entered American Athletic Conference on July 1, 2014 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT