Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / University Advancement and Alumni Engagement / Giving to McFarlin Giving to McFarlin Why Give How to Give Where to Give Give Greater Engraved Bricks Donor Privacy Policy Gift Administration Policy MAKE A GIFT PLANNED GIVING TUALUMNI.com At the heart of every great academic institution stands its library and at The University of Tulsa, our own iconic McFarlin Library is no exception. As the TU’s Grand Dame since 1930, McFarlin has been the physical and academic center of our beautiful campus. The financial resources needed to sustain a world-class library like McFarlin are vast. However, through the generous support of friends, alumni and other benefactors of the University of Tulsa, we are able to provide TU students and faculty with the academic resources necessary to succeed in their scholastic enterprise. Special Collections works with a small number of respectable book dealers who have our collection interests firmly in mind and with whom we have worked for many years to cultivate a reputation for reliability and alacrity. By having dependable funding and responsive support, we can continue to maintain these relationships and continue to build and expand both our collections and our prestige in the academic community. For more information, please call the Office of University Advancement and Alumni Engagement at 918-631-2561. The McFarlin Library Annual Fund for Excellence The McFarlin Library Annual Fund for Excellence provides crucial unrestricted dollars to: Meet the ever-increasing cost of scholarly journal subscriptions that are critical for research Provide the ability to expand our access to other print and electronic information resources (books, journals, research databases, media, etc.) Ensure the continual enhancement of campus computing resources Enable McFarlin to continue acquiring important rare books and manuscripts for our special collections. Through every gift to the library’s annual fund, no matter what the size, you leave a personal legacy in knowing your generosity has touched the academic life of a TU scholar. For more information, please call the Office of University Advancement and Alumni Engagement at 918-631-2561. The McFarlin Fellows Formally established in 1993, the McFarlin Fellows support The University of Tulsa’s rare book, manuscript, and special collections with an annual contribution of $2000 or more. McFarlin Fellows are also recognized as members of The University of Tulsa’s President’s Council and are invited to special events organized by the President of the University. Annual donors of $1,500 or more to any University program become members of the President’s Council but only those supporting the acquisition of rare books and manuscripts become McFarlin Fellows. Additionally, McFarlin Fellows are invited to attend formal dinners with a speaker three times a year, and may also be invited to other special events. Upcoming McFarlin Fellows Events Past Fellow Speakers and Programs Why We Need Support Although university funding covers the costs of staff and overhead, it does not provide funding for Special Collections acquisitions. These are funded solely through gifts to the Library. But success in acquiring desirable manuscripts, rare books, and other materials, and building a prestigious collection needs more than generosity. Success actually requires: Thoughtfully defined collections and interests Dependable funding at a predictable level An institutional ability to move quickly and make immediate decisions Support that can be mobilized to meet special opportunities History of McFarlin Fellows The rare book and manuscript collections at the University of Tulsa have always enjoyed strong support from the Tulsa Community. Much of this support has been from people who are interested in literature and history. In the 1940s, the Tulsa Bibliophiles, a group of book collectors, developed an extensive collection of Walt Whitman materials that later, along with many of the members’ personal libraries, was given to McFarlin Library, establishing the University’s rare book holdings for American and English literature. Over the next 50 years, there were a number of short-lived library groups that continued to support the special collections and rare book holdings at the University of Tulsa through gifts of materials and financial donations. In 1992, then-Provost George Gilpin and his wife Professor Hermione de Almeida, along with Curator of Special Collections Sidney F. Huttner, began to gather friends and acquaintances who were interested not only in supporting the needs of the Special Collections department, but also in enriching the intellectual community of Tulsa. After a few test dinners and speakers in the Gilpins’ home, the McFarlin Fellows was firmly established, and the first official dinner with a speaker was held in October 1993. Over the years, there have been many fascinating and notable speakers and events, including Nobel laureate Sir V. S. Naipaul, Presidential Medal of Freedom winner Mary Robinson (then President of Ireland), NPR commentator, writer and librarian Nancy Pearl, the unveiling of the Sir Rupert Hart Davis Library, Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney and documentary filmmaker Ken Burns (The Civil War, Baseball, Jazz). For more information, please call the Office of University Advancement and Alumni Engagement at 918-631-2561. The Ben Graf Henneke Society Established in 2009, The Ben Graf Henneke Society pays tribute to The University of Tulsa’s President Emeritus, Ben Henneke, and his dedication to McFarlin Library. From his days as a student, Dr. Henneke spent countless hours in McFarlin and maintained an office here until his death in the fall of 2009. Dr. Henneke provided steadfast support for the library during his presidency and also was a generous donor. Membership in this premier donor society requires a commitment of $25,000. Each generous gift, which can be paid at once or over a period of up to five years, will be pooled in an endowed fund that will serve to attract renowned authors and scholars to TU and to raise national and international regard for The University’s rare books and manuscripts held in special collections. Belonging to The Henneke Society provides members with access to McFarlin Library’s Department of Special Collections and University Archives and invitation to select events at The University of Tulsa. Why We Need Support Although university funding covers the costs of staff and overhead, it does not provide funding for Special Collections acquisitions. These are funded solely through gifts to the Library. But success in acquiring desirable manuscripts, rare books, and other materials, and building a prestigious collection needs more than generosity. Success actually requires: Thoughtfully defined collections and interests Dependable funding at a predictable level An institutional ability to move quickly and make immediate decisions Support that can be mobilized to meet special opportunities For more information, please call the Office of University Advancement and Alumni Engagement at 918-631-2561. McFarlin Signature Society McFarlin Library is the academic heart of the university. It exists to enrich the academic experience of TU students and faculty by providing access to our wide-ranging collection of electronic and print materials. The dedicated and knowledgeable library staff actively promotes scholarship, critical thinking, and responsible citizenship through information literacy, and provides a welcoming place for self-education and life-long discovery. Established in 2013, McFarlin Signature Society is comprised of a group of alumni and community members who provide a minimum $500 gift to support the general and most pressing needs of McFarlin Library. McFarlin Signature Society contributions help to expand McFarlin Library’s electronic journals collection, to upgrade technology, and to provide staff support critical to the daily operation of the Library. Your $500 gift may be made in one annual payment, in pledge payments throughout the year, or matched by your employer. For more information, please call the Office of University Advancement and Alumni Engagement at 918-631-2561. Gifts to Special Collections and University Archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives has been built with the support of many truly generous and caring people. These gifts tend to fall into two major types: financial and gifts in kind. Financial Giving: Financial Gifts are handled through the Office of Institutional Advancement, and specifically through the McFarlin Library Development Officer, Jenna Flugum. The McFarlin Fellows contributions also allow us to purchase rare books and manuscripts. The Ben Graf Henneke Society contributions allow us to bring in notable speakers for the Fellows dinners. Gifts in Kind: Gifts in Kind are items, papers, and other tangible goods that people have chosen to give us. Many of our best known collections and materials have been donated to us. Anyone wishing to offer a Gift in Kind should contact the Librarian of Special Collections. Acceptance is based on our Gift Policy/Collection Development Policy, and sometimes other practical or substantive considerations. At the time of the gift, a Deed of Gift should be created and signed. Gifts will be acknowledged by letter from Institutional Advancement, and often a further thank you may be sent by the Librarian of Special Collections, or the Dean of McFarlin Library. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT