Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Campus Services HQ / Parking on campus / Parking Regulations Parking Regulations CAMPUS SERVICES Parking on campus Parking Regulations Bike Registration Electric Vehicle Charging Stations SafeZone Visitor/Guest Parking Parking Portal PRINTABLE CAMPUS MAP All parking regulations are in effect at all times and apply to all students, faculty and staff who park motor vehicles on University of Tulsa-owned or controlled parking lots, streets or property. It shall be the duty and responsibility of Campus Security Officers, or those designated by the Director of Campus Security, to enforce all regulations applicable to this policy and to issue warnings, citations and/or bring charges of student or employee misconduct against violators. Vehicles that are parked or used in violation of regulations are subject to towing at owner’s expense without prior warning. Bicycle, Skates, Roller Blades and Skateboards All bicycle, skates, roller blades and skateboard regulations are in effect at all times and apply to all students, faculty and staff who park or ride any of the above mentioned transportation methods on University of Tulsa owned or controlled parking lots, streets or property. Bicycle Registration All students, faculty and staff must register their bicycle with the University and obtain a registration sticker. The registration sticker must be attached and displayed on the main frame below the seat post. Bicycle registrations are valid indefinitely. If you have previously registered, still own and display a bicycle displaying a TU bike permit, registration continues to be honored. Registrations are not transferable. Any bike parked on TU campus not displaying a sticker and properly registered may be impounded by Campus Security or the Hurricane Bike Shop. Bikes without registration stickers that are impounded are considered abandoned, and if not claimed within 6 months, will be donated to Tulsa Hub. http://www.tulsahub.org Counterfeiting, altering, defacing or transferring the registration sticker to another bike or person and/or giving false information in any application or in a hearing is a violation of the Student Conduct Code. Violations Fines Failure to register or display a bicycle registration sticker $5 Counterfeiting, altering, defacing or transferring a bicycle registration sticker to another vehicle $50 Falsifying information to obtain a bicycle registration sticker $50 Parking and Securing of Bicycles Bicycles may only be stored or parked in student rooms, apartments and bike racks located near each building. Bicycles that are stored in student rooms and apartments will not be placed in areas where they may constitute a hazard. This includes hallways, lounges, breezeways and stairwells. Bicycles that are parked or stored at outside bike racks must be secured with a security device designed to prevent theft. Bicycles may not be parked in a manner as to interfere with life safety zones such as a fire hydrant, fire lane or other emergency zone; or on any service drive, building entrance, driveway, walkway ramp, emergency telephone apparatus or any other passageway to which emergency equipment may need access. Bicycles may not be parked, chained or otherwise attached to trees, plants or other living objects, railings, fences, posts signs or trash receptacles. Bicycles may not be parked on the grass or in any other area that is under cultivation. Bicycles parked in violation of these regulations or in a manner such as to constitute a safety hazard may be impounded by Campus Security Officers. The registered owner of any impounded bicycle will be emailed requesting that they pickup their bicycle at the TU Bike Shop (LaFortune House). If the registered owner does not claim the bicycle within 15 calendar days, it will be turned over to Tulsa Police Department as abandoned. Bicycles without stickers are impounded and not claimed within 10 calendar days will be turned over to the Tulsa Police Department as abandoned. Violations Fines Failure to yield to a pedestrian $5 Failure to yield while exiting a sidewalk or bikeway $5 Abandoned Bicycles Abandoned bicycles and those bicycles left on campus at the conclusion of the spring semester will be impounded by TU Bike Shop employees. Bicycles that are impounded and not claimed within 10 calendar days will be turned over to the Tulsa Police Department as abandoned. Riding on Sidewalks Whenever a person is riding a bicycle or traveling by means of skates, rollerblades or skateboard on any sidewalk or other areas intended for pedestrian use, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian. Any person riding a bicycle or traveling by means of skates, rollerblades, or skateboard that is about to enter or cross a University-controlled parking lot or street shall yield the right of way to all traffic. Violations Fines Failure to yield to a pedestrian $5 Failure to yield while exiting a sidewalk or bikeway $5 Fine Payment and Appeals Process Citations issued for violations of The University of Tulsa Parking, Traffic and Bicycle Regulations must be appealed or paid online (My Parking Account) or to The University of Tulsa Business Office within ten (10) business days from the date of the citation. If the citation is not paid or appealed within ten (10) business days, the violator forfeits their right of appeal and the fine, along with a $5.00 late fee, is automatically charged to the their University account. When appealing a citation, the appellant should remember that they are responsible for exercising prudent judgment when using their motor and non-motorized vehicles on University owned or controlled parking lots, streets or property, or when loaning their vehicles to others. Everyone is held accountable for observing and heeding street signs and markings while driving and parking. Therefore, appellants should carefully consider the basis for appealing a citation. The following are provided as example rationale that is not acceptable grounds for appeal: Lack of knowledge of the regulations (i.e., new to campus, have not reviewed the regulations, etc.) Other vehicles were also parked improperly. There were no available parking spaces. Late to class or appointment. That the violation was temporary (i.e., “I was just dropping something off”, etc.) Disagreement with or inability to pay the amount of the fine. Serious and/or aggravated circumstances involving violations of these policies may be referred to the Office of the Dean of Students, the Office of Human Resources, or the Office of the Provost, depending if the violator is a student, staff member or faculty member. Investigation and disciplinary action taken for these referrals will be handled in accordance with the respective provisions and policies of each individual department. Appeals Process Step 1: You must complete the Appeals Form located on My Parking Account. The Appeals Form must be completed within ten (10) business days from the date of the citation. (Only one appeal per citation is allowed, Appeals Form can be found under Citations.) Step 2: The Appeals Officer will review your appeal within ten (10) business days and render a decision. You will be notified by mail or e-mail of the Appeals Officer’s decision. The decision of the Appeals Officer is final and no subsequent review is available. · If your citation is upheld, you must pay your assessed fine at TU’s Business Office within ten (10) business days of the appeals letter notification date. If you do not pay your fine within the ten (10) business days, it will automatically be charged to your university account along with a $5.00 late fee. · If the Appeals Officer rules in your favor, the fine is dismissed and your parking record is cleared of the citation. No further action is required on your part. Habitual Parking Violator Designation as a “Habitual Parking Violator” occurs after four parking citations have been issued on the same person or parking permit within a parking year. Vehicles that are improperly parked by Habitual Parking Violators are subject to towing at the owner’s expense. Upon issuance of a fourth parking citation, the Department of Campus Security will provide written warning to the registered parking permit holder (or person in possession of an unregistered vehicle) that they have been designated as a Habitual Parking Violator and that their vehicle is subject to being towed upon any subsequent violations. Vehicles receive the Tow Warning sticker on the 4th citation Once designated a Habitual Parking Violator, the status remains in effect for the remainder of the parking year. For information regarding individual parking records or Habitual Parking Violator status, contact The Department of Campus Security Administrative Office at the Mabee Gym, 3115 East 8th St or by telephone at 918-631-2571. Parking Violations Vehicles parked in violation of these regulations are subject to towing at the owner’s expense and without prior warning. Abandoned, Disabled and Inoperable Vehicles No person shall park any vehicle which is inoperable upon any University-owned or controlled street or parking lot for a period longer than one hundred twenty (120) consecutive hours (5-days). Violations Fines Parking a disabled or unused vehicle on University property $30 Designation of Parking Areas The University of Tulsa will designate all areas of campus that are intended for the parking of motor vehicles and who may use these parking areas. Parking will be restricted to those vehicles bearing an authorized valid permit for the designated parking lot. Please note: Purchasing a parking permit for a particular lot does not guarantee a space in that lot at all times. Campus parking lots may be closed for special events, athletic activities, and/or for University operations and maintenance. Violations Fines Parking in an unauthorized parking lot or street $30 Falsely signing a parking citation as a visitor $50 Parking in a visitor lot or parking space designated for visitor parking only $30 Motorcycle, Moped, Motorized Scooter and Golf Carts Parking Motorcycles, mopeds, motorized scooters and golf carts may be parked on concrete pads near bicycle racks or in a designated “motorcycle only” parking space. Under no circumstances should these vehicles be driven on sidewalks or grass areas to access the concrete pads near bicycle racks. Violations Fines Unauthorized motorcycle, scooter, moped or golf cart parking $30 Parking for Certain Prohibited Purposes No person shall park a vehicle upon any University owned or controlled street or parking lot for the principal purpose of: Violations Fines Displaying such vehicle for sale $30 Washing, repairing, changing oil or fluids, except repairs necessitated by emergency $30 Displaying such vehicle for advertising a product $30 Parking in Alleys No person shall at any time stop, stand or park a vehicle in an alley at any time except for the loading of materials, and not then unless such loading or unloading can be accomplished without blocking the alley to the free movement of traffic. Such parking should not interfere with or obstruct the operation of a fire escape, and not take over fifteen (15) minutes in total time. Violations Fines Parking in an alley $30 Blocking an alley $30 Parking in Loading Zones No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a loading zone for any purpose other than for the expeditious loading, unloading, delivery, and pickup of materials or passengers for a time exceeding fifteen (15) minutes (or that posted). Fifteen (15) minute courtesy zones are provided in some areas of campus to allow “short term” parking for conducting business and other transactions. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a fifteen (15) minute parking zone in excess of the allotted time. Violations Fines Parking longer than the posted allotted time for loading zones $30 Overtime parking in a fifteen-minute zone $30 Parking of Boats, Trailers and Recreational Vehicles No person shall park any boat, recreational vehicles or trailer that is detached from the primary tow vehicle upon any University owned or controlled street or parking lot without the approval of the Director of Campus Security. Violations Fines Parking a boat trailer, or Recreational Vehicle on University property without proper approval $30 Parking Permit Violations All students (resident and non-resident), faculty, and staff (part-time, full-time, day, and evening) who park motor vehicles on the University of Tulsa property must register the vehicles with the University and obtain a parking permit. Individuals may only have one permit per person. The permit must be properly attached to the lower right-hand corner of the registered vehicle front windshield. Violations Fines Falsifying information to obtain a parking permit $50 Parking a vehicle on University-owned or controlled property that is not currently registered $50 Knowingly affixing a parking permit to an unregistered vehicle $50 Parking a vehicle on University-owned or controlled property with the parking permit improperly affixed to the vehicle $5 Parking Prohibited in Specified Places, No Signs Required No person shall at any time stop, stand or park a vehicle (except in compliance with the direction of a Police Officer, Campus Security Officer or traffic-control device) in any of the following places. Violations Fines Sidewalk $30 Within 10 feet of a fire hydrant $30 Within an intersection $30 Double Parking $30 On unpaved or grassy areas $30 In any manner where the vehicle is not parallel to and within 12 inches of the curb or roadside edge $30 Front of a driveway or within 3 feet thereof $30 On or within 10 feet of a crosswalk $30 Within a 20 foot approach to any stop sign, yield sign or other traffic control sign $30 At any location other than within a marked stall or parking place $30 Opposite direction of traffic on a street $30 On any area between the curb and sidewalk $30 Parking that Blocks Trash Dumpster Access No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in front of, or in a manner that obstructs or blocks free access to a trash dumpster. Violations Fines Parking in a manner that blocks or obstructs a trash dumpster $50 Parking within or upon Designated Fire Lanes No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle within or upon a designated fire lane.. This violation is also subject to ticketing by the City of Tulsa. Violations Fines Parking in a restricted area (Handicap zone /Fire lane) $100 Restricted Parking Area Reserved for the Physically Disabled No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in a parking space, wheelchair ramp, wheelchair unloading area or any portion thereof that has been designated a handicap zone, unless the vehicle displays a valid State Handicap Parking Permit, numbered license plate bearing the international wheelchair symbol or a valid University of Tulsa Disabled Parking Permit. This violation is also subject to ticketing by the City of Tulsa. Violations Fines Parking in a restricted area (Handicap zone /Fire lane) $100 Unattended Motor Vehicles No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall allow or permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing the key. Upon finding any vehicle in violation of this regulation, Campus Security Officers are empowered by the University to remove the key from the vehicle and impound it at the Security Office for safekeeping. The owner, or person in charge of the vehicle, may claim the key after providing proof of ownership or authorization of use for the vehicle. Violations Fines Leaving the ignition key inside an unattended motor vehicle $30 Regulations Governing the Operation of Motor Vehicles Vehicles parked in violation of these regulations are subject to towing at the owner’s expense and without prior warning. Excessive Acceleration The driver of a vehicle shall not purposely or inadvertently cause their vehicle to accelerate at such an excessive or rapid rate of speed so as to spin or squeal the tires of such vehicle or cause their ability to control such vehicle to be impaired to any appreciable degree. Violations Fines Excessive Acceleration $50 Leaving the Scene of a Motor Vehicle Accident The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident on University property that results in property damage or injury shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident or as close to the accident scene as practical and take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the property and/or vehicle of the fact of the accident, their name and address, registration number and insurance information. If a said person cannot be identified the accident should be immediately reported to the Campus Security Office (631-5555). The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident who fails to meet the requirements as set forth under Oklahoma State Law is guilty of leaving the scene of an accident. Persons violating this regulation will be referred to the Dean of Students, Director of Personnel Services or the Office of the Provost, depending upon if the violator is a student, staff member or faculty member. Disciplinary action taken for these referrals will be handled in accordance with the respected provisions and policies of each individual department. This violation is also subject to ticketing and/or arrest by the City of Tulsa. Obedience to a Traffic Control Device The driver of a vehicle shall obey all traffic control devices, which shall include all officially posted signs and/or painted markings; placed on the surface of curbing or the pavement of any University-owned or controlled street, sidewalk or parking lot. Violations Fines Failure to obey a traffic control device $50 Obedience to a Traffic Control Official No person shall fail or refuse to comply with any order or direction of a Campus Security Officer or Parking Lot Attendant engaged in directing traffic on any University-owned or controlled street or parking lot. Vehicles parked in violation of this regulation are subject to towing at the owner’s expense and without prior warning. Violations Fines Failure to obey a traffic control officer $50 Prohibited Operation of Motor Vehicles or Motorized Play Vehicles No person shall operate any motor vehicle, motorized play vehicle or golf cart at any time, except in compliance with the direction and/or approval of a Campus Security Officer, on any sidewalk, pathway or other areas intended for pedestrian use, upon any parkway, grass or any unpaved portion of University property. For the purpose of this regulation motorized play vehicle is defined as any go-cart, skateboard or any other motorized vehicle that is self-propelled by a motor or engine and is not classified as a licensed motor vehicle in the State of Oklahoma. This regulation does not apply to University service vehicles, motorized wheelchairs, tractors, or lawn, and garden equipment. Violations Fines Operating a vehicle on a sidewalk or pedestrian pathway $30 Operating a vehicle on the grass or unpaved portion of campus $30 Reasonable and Prudent Speed Penalties No person shall drive a vehicle upon any University-owned or controlled street or parking lot at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, conditions and actual and potential hazards then existing. The prima facie speed limit in any University-owned or controlled parking lot is ten (10) miles per hour. Violations Fines Driving a vehicle at an unsafe speed $50 Driving a vehicle in excess of ten (10) miles per hour in a parking lot $50 Reckless Driving It shall be deemed reckless driving for any person to drive or operate a vehicle in a careless or wanton manner without regard for the safety of persons or property while on the University campus. Violations Fines Reckless Driving $100 Removing or Driving Through Barricades No person shall remove or drive through any barricades, cones or similar type traffic control device that has been placed upon a University-owned or controlled street or parking lot. Violations Fines Removing or driving through a traffic control barricade $100 Stop Signs The driver of a vehicle shall completely stop their vehicle before entering any intersection where official stop signs have been erected. After stopping the driver of the vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles already in motion in the intersection or so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. Violations Fines Failure to stop at a stop sign $50 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT