Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Cybersecurity in Tulsa https://youtu.be/3W_l4Ee7bcI School of Cyber Studies School of Computer Science TU-Team8 Cyber Fellows Cyber Corps Tulsa Cyber Summit iSec News Alumni in the industry Philip McAllister finds success as Instagram engineer TU alumni John and Crystal Lister battle cyber threats CYBERSECURITY BOOKLET The University of Tulsa has been a leader in cybersecurity research and education for more than 20 years. TU has been a designated Center of Academic Excellence (CAE) in Information Assurance and Cyber Defense Education by the federal government since 2000 and was one of the first 14 institutions awarded this distinction. In January 2022, The University of Tulsa’s designation as a National CAE in Cyber Defense was extended through the academic year 2027. TU also is recognized by the federal government as a CAE in IA Research and Cyber Operations. TU alumni are employed worldwide in leading roles among the private and public sectors as well as academia. TU offers multiple programs for students who want to advance in integral areas of cybersecurity and computer science such as applications development and maintenance, system administration, network administration, policy development, training, management, academic or industry. Problems to be Solved Our country’s military, energy, financial, retail, insurance and health digital information infrastructure face ever-increasing cyber-related attacks from foreign governments, rouge hackers and terrorist organizations with the potential for disastrous impact on the defense of our nation, including our economy. The sophistication of these cyberattacks continues to advance alongside these ever-increasing number of attacks, requiring a robust cyber research and innovation enterprise to stay steps ahead of these attackers. The quality of cyberprotection services, vendors and products is without a rating system. There is an inadequate cyber-trained workforce to meet these challenges with an estimate of 350,000 open cyber positions across the United States. One estimate is that by 2021, more than 3 million cyber defense jobs will be needed. Decision makers at major corporations and public institutions across the United States are not adequately informed in cyber-related issues to protect their companies and institutions. Unique Solutions to These Problems Tulsa Enterprise on Cyber Innovation, Talent and Entrepreneurship (TECITE) The University of Tulsa has a long-standing reputation for excellence in cybersecurity with programs on campus supported by the federal government, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA). Executive Summary A new war is underway. A war fought among nations, organized terror cells and individual hackers, against our national defense systems. A war against our banking, retail, health and energy business sectors. The sophistication of these attacks continues to advance. Currently 350,000 cyberdefense positions are available in the United States with projections for exponential growth in needed cyberdefense workforce. For many of these cyber positions, the candidates must meet Top Secret Security Clearance level standards. There is a need to expand cyber research, innovation and entrepreneurship to stay well ahead of the “bad guys.” There is great need to ensure the quality of cyberservices, vendors and products in supply chains, manufactured products and cyber insurance ratings. This proposal asks for the creation of a Tulsa Enterprise for Cyber Innovation, Talent and Entrepreneurship (TECITE.) The backbone of this enterprise is a set of co-located cyber centers of excellence that link industry, federal agencies and The University of Tulsa in a united effort in defense of our information systems. The proposal takes advantage of Tulsa’s low cost of living, ability to recruit and retain young talent and the near downtown Tulsa Opportunity Zone along 6th Street. The proposal leverages The University of Tulsa’s 20-year history as a lead supplier of Top Secret Security Clearance talent to federal agencies and as a national center of excellence in cyberdefense education and research. All of this is an effort to significantly grow additional cyber workforce and innovations in Tulsa. Cybersecurity Centers and Institutes Cyber Corps The University of Tulsa’s Cyber Corps program accepts students interested in computer science, computer engineering, electrical engineering, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, applied physics, engineering physics or mathematics. The program also accommodates students who have expertise in computer science or computer engineering and are interested in pursuing law, business and liberal arts degrees. TU’s Cyber Corps is a designated Center of Excellence in Cyber Operations. The mission of the center is to train students in the art and science of cyberwarfare, preparing them for professional careers with the intelligence community and DoD. Institute for Information Security (iSEC) Dating back to the 1950s, TU faculty, students and staff have worked to forge strong industry partnerships for research and development. The TU Institute for Information Security (iSec) is a multidisciplinary program of study and research tackling cybersecurity issues on a global scale. TU is one of the leading schools in the country for information security research and education with more than a decade of experience in the field. Applied Research Center for Cloud of Things, directed by Tandy Professor of Computer Science Engineering, Rose Gamble, email gamble@utulsa.edu. Research in Cybersecurity Interdisciplinary research projects funded by AFRL, DHS, DOE and private industry Wearable and Internet of Things (IoT) Device Security Security Assurance for Autonomous and Self-Adaptive Systems U.S. Critical Infrastructure Protection Research (oil & gas, nuclear, and the power grid) Security Economics Lab Institute for Information Security (iSec) Exclusive TU Educational Opportunities MS in Cybersecurity Professional Track degree offered online along with a traditional residential program Undergraduate exposure and research in cybersecurity Substantial curriculum offerings Research engagement through funded support and the Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge Minor that attracts undergraduate students from computer science, engineering and business Academic Degree Programs at TU Majors Computer Science, B.S.C.S. Gain a foundation in mathematics and the sciences with core computer science courses. Computer Information Systems, B.S.B.A. Provides a basic understanding of information technologies and teaches the skills necessary to employ information technology resources with the objective of enhancing organization and user performance. Information Technology, B.S.I.T. Learn core computer science foundations, develop and manage applications with an understanding of the commercial markets. Computer Simulation and Gaming, B.S.C.S.G. Develop technologies such as advanced scientific simulators, virtual reality environments and computer games. Computer Science, Accelerated Master’s Highly motivated students can accelerate their education and earn a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in computer science in five years. Cybersecurity, Accelerated Master’s Allows TU undergraduate student to being logging graduate hours while completing a bachelor’s degree, reducing the time for completion of the master’s degree. Minors Bioinformatics Minor Students from any discipline may minor in bioinformatics. Computational Sciences Minor Prepares students for graduate programs focused on computer modeling and simulation of technical and natural systems. Computer Science Minor Non-majors are welcome to minor in computer science within the Tandy School of Computer Science. High Performance Computing Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in high performance computing. Information Technology Minor Students from other disciplines may minor in information technology. Cybersecurity Minor Combines information systems, including computer information systems, information technology, and computer science with cybersecurity and its relevant applications in the business world. Graduate Programs Cybersecurity Professional Track, M.S. An online program designed for working professionals providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cybersecurity. Cybersecurity, Non-Thesis Option, M.S. A residential program providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cybersecurity. Cybersecurity, Thesis Option, M.S. A residential program providing a comprehensive understanding of the foundational concepts of cybersecurity while engaging in research. Cybersecurity, Accelerated Master’s Allows TU undergraduate students to begin logging graduate hours while completing a bachelor’s degree, reducing the time for completion of the master’s degree. Computer Science, Interdisciplinary Track, M.S. Prepares students for careers in a wide range of industries. Students take advanced courses in theory and applications. Computer Science, Non-Thesis Option, M.S. Prepares students for careers in a wide range of industries. Students take advanced courses in theory and applications. Computer Science, Thesis Option, M.S. Allows students to obtain a breadth of knowledge in computer science by taking advanced courses in theory, application and current research. Computer Science, M.S. (Accelerated Master’s) Highly motivated students can earn a master’s in computer science in less time by beginning to log hours during their TU undergraduate degree. Computer Science, J.D./M.S. Highly motivated students can earn a Juris Doctor and a master’s degree in less than four years. Computer Science, Ph.D. Obtain a depth of knowledge in an area of interest by focusing on courses in that area, conducting independent research and producing scholarly work. Computer Engineering, M.E. Prepares students to apply hardware and software techniques and problem solving to a variety of topics in computer engineering. Computer Engineering, M.S.E. Prepares students with an expertise in the foundational areas of computer science and electrical engineering. Computer Engineering, Ph.D. Students can pursue research and course work that emphasizes either the computer science or electrical engineering aspect of this joint degree. Computer science students are offered research opportunities as undergraduates. Computer science students are offered research opportunities as undergraduates. TU students compete at the regional Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition. TU students compete at the regional Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition. Cutting-edge cybersecurity and computer science labs are located in TU's Rayzor Hall. Cutting-edge cybersecurity and computer science labs are located in TU's Rayzor Hall. Professor Mauricio Papa works with students on critical infrastructure protection research. Professor Mauricio Papa works with students on critical infrastructure protection research. Students compete against other cyber defense teams at the regional and national levels. Students compete against other cyber defense teams at the regional and national levels. Students work in many different areas of computer science including bioinformatics. Students work in many different areas of computer science including bioinformatics. Professor John Hale advises students in areas such as computational biology and neuroinformatics. Professor John Hale advises students in areas such as computational biology and neuroinformatics. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT