Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search / Sexual Violence Prevention & Education / Current Efforts Current Efforts SEXUAL VIOLENCE PREVENTION & EDUCATION Reporting Sexual Violence Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Advocacy Alliance Campus Climate Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies & Laws Alcohol & Consent Frequently Asked Questions In order to facilitate the university’s goal of promoting healthy relationships through communication and education, and working toward the elimination of violence on this campus—a variety of active and passive methods of prevention programming are available to the TU community. Advocacy Alliance: Learn more about the initiatives and programs of the Advocacy Alliance, TU’s primary programming arm of the university’s sexual violence prevention and education initiatives. Current Efforts: View current efforts on campus to prevent sexual violence as well as encourage campus reporting. Efforts include social media, poster campaigns, in-person programs and trainings, and online trainings. Get Involved: There are many ways to get involved in our efforts to provide support for survivors of sexual violence as well as in education around the elimination of sexual violence in our community. Get Informed: In addition to information provided on other pages, this page offers information for learning more about sexual violence and prevention efforts. Definitions of relevant concepts and terms are included on this page, as well as information about training programs available for students, faculty, and staff. This project was supported by Grant No. _2016-WA-AX-0007__ awarded by the Office on Violence Against Women, U.S. Department of Justice. The opinions, findings, conclusions, and recommendations expressed in this publication/program/exhibition are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women. Do Not Cancel That Class If a professor is going to need to miss class due to an emergency and they would like the Violence Prevention Program Coordinator, another Advocacy Alliance member, or our Survivor Advocate to come speak to their class all they need to do is email kelsey-hancock@utulsa.edu so that we can check for available trainers and get the speaker scheduled. It is helpful for us to know how many students are in your class and how much time we will have to speak with the students. It is also important that we have as much advance notice as possible. Since all of our programming is provided on a volunteer basis we need as much time as possible to get trainers scheduled. We can do activities from any of the programs that we offer and we like to meet students where they are in their development. To that end we are open to discussing what the professor believes their students might be ready for and what might be most helpful for their students. We do workshops on consent, healthy relationships, receiving a disclosure of interpersonal violence, the reporting process, Safe Zones, and resource Q&A sessions. We also have multiple iterations of our Bringing in the Bystander training. We have 45, 60, and 90 minute versions. We also have a 4 hour training where students can become Bringing in the Bystander trainers to help disseminate this knowledge to the rest of campus though we understand that this may not be applicable to many classes. Programs offered by the Office of Violence Prevention Safe Zone Program: The mission of this program is to provide a network of safe and supportive allies to the LGBTQ+ community. This program educates individuals on vernacular and terminology that is respectful and supportive of students with LGBTQ+ identities. Bringing in the Bystander: This program is evidence-based and developed by researchers at the University of New Hampshire who specialize in sexual assault prevention. This program is offered at various times during the year to anyone wishing to participate. Resident Assistants and Orientation Leaders are trained in this program on a yearly basis. In the Spring of 2017 the Advocacy Alliance offered 16 Bringing in the Bystander programs to students, advertised through flyers around campus based on a sign up to attend system. There are multiple trainings that we offer for Bringing in the Bystander. We have 45, 60, and 90 minute versions. We also have a 4 hour training where students can become Bringing in the Bystander trainers to help disseminate this knowledge to the rest of campus. Healthy Relationships and Consent Workshops: These workshops are provided during new student orientation, but can also be tailored to a discussion style format for students on campus who want more training at later times. The Advocacy Alliance, listed below, works with student groups to decide what programming approach would be most helpful for them. These programs are designed to meet students where they are, to answer questions for them concerning red flags in relationships, how to foster effective communication, and what consent looks like in their respective relationships. Reporting and Disclosure Training: This training is designed to help students, staff, faculty, and administrators understand their resources and responsibilities on campus and off campus. Trainees complete this training with the framework of understanding how to accept a disclosure of interpersonal violence, where to report that information, and who is helpful to contact with this kind of information. Trainees are also provided with resource sheets to keep with them that contain information from the training that they can rely on when necessary. Know Your IX: This program raises awareness on what Title IX is, what the reporting process is, and what resources we can provide to the TU Community. This program can also be tailored to fit the needs of the person or organization requesting it in that it can be presentation or discussion based or a combination of both. Often, the Q & A portion of this program is the most enlightening because it offers TU students, faculty, and staff to ask questions in an open format with a live campus expert. The Clothesline Project: This event brings awareness to the number of victims and survivors, and the violence they have experienced. They display messages written by those individuals, and anyone affected by interpersonal violence, on a clothesline that is displayed at the University for a certain number of days every October (also recognized as Domestic Violence Awareness Month). Resources are provided at the exhibit site, and there is always a member of the Advocacy Alliance there to answer questions. Student groups who wish to host a shirt decoration event can contact Kelsey Hancock for more information. Office on Violence Against Women Grant, additional staff: The University recently was awarded a DOJ grant to reduce incidences of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking on campus. The 3 year grant provided funds to hire a Violence Prevention and Education Coordinator, a graduate from the University of Tulsa from the Clinical Psychology Master’s Program, Kelsey Hancock. The grant funds have also been used to hire a Survivor Advocate. The responsibilities of these positions include developing additional educational programming and training for TU students, faculty, staff, and administration. The grant also calls for the establishment of a university-wide Coordinated Community Response Team. This team will assist with fulfilling grant requirements included assessment, development, and implementation of educational programs and coordinated campus communication regarding interpersonal violence. Advocacy Alliance: An interdisciplinary, interdepartmental committee, which seeks to prevent and intervene with interpersonal violence on the TU campus. In 2012, the Alliance overhauled its goals and vision for the committee to stay in line with current best practices around sexual violence prevention and education. The Alliance is composed of individuals from several different programs and departments: The Dean of Student’s Office, The University of Tulsa Institute for Trauma, Adversity, and Injustice, The Office of Student Affairs, Athletics, Campus Security, Counseling Center, Housing, Alexander Health Center, Office of Violence Prevention, various faculty members, and two student representatives. iStand: This Facebook campaign is designed to raise awareness of sexual violence by linking articles about sexual violence and other forms of interpersonal violence, providing resources to pages where students may go to read about and inform themselves of what the new research is and what is happening on larger scale around the U.S. and in the world. The Student Alliance for Violence Education (S.A.V.E.): The Student Alliance for Violence Education is a student group that organizes educational programming for the campus community. Beginning in 2014 SAVE has hosted numerous events every year with 2017 being the group’s most active year to date. Each yeah SAVE partners with different groups on campus to host the Vagina Monologues to fundraise for our community partner Domestic Violence Intervention Services of Tulsa. The group also helps to staff the Clothesline Project and a number of its members are student trainers for our Bringing in the Bystander program. For more information on any of our programs or to schedule a program email kelsey-hancock@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT