Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Direct Parent Plus Loan FINANCIAL AID Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Direct Parent Plus Loan Parents can use the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan Program to help pay for educationally-related costs, including, but not limited to, tuition, fees, room/board, books, and miscellaneous personal expenses. Eligibility in this program is not contingent upon financial need. The Parent PLUS Loan is administered by the U.S. Department of Education and approval is based on the absence of adverse credit within the last five years (not based on credit worthiness). The U.S. Department of Education will run a credit check and notify Student Financial Services of the credit decision. As the parent, you are responsible for the interest on the loan while your student is in school, but payment can be deferred. Eligibility: The student must first file a FAFSA (listing TU’s school code 003185) before TU can determine eligibility for a Direct Parent PLUS Loan (PLUS). Only a parent (or a stepparent whose income was supplied on the FAFSA) can apply for this loan. Not based on financial need Your student must be at least half-time Eligibility must be determined and the loan originated before the end of the academic period for which the loan is being requested. Apply: Click here to apply for the Parent PLUS Loan. You will need your FSA ID to apply (this is the same ID used to sign into your FAFSA account). All borrower information on the application is about the parent who is applying for the loan. The parent is the borrower not the student. An independent undergraduate student can only apply for a private loan. New Parent PLUS borrowers must sign an electronic Parent PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) at the completion of the application process or later on the same website. A PLUS MPN is valid for loans made for a dependent student and is good for ten years. A separate PLUS MPN must be completed for each dependent student. The PLUS MPN is retained and updated by the U.S. Department of Education throughout your student’s education at TU. Denied? You may still borrow funds if someone agrees to endorse the loan (promises to repay the loan if you fail to do so) or if you successfully appeal the decision by documenting extenuating circumstances. If you choose to obtain an endorser, the endorser may complete the Endorser Addendum online at https://studentaid.gov/endorser-addendum/. If you choose to appeal the decision, log in to https://studentaid.gov/ and select “Appeal a Credit Decision” from the dropdown for Apply For Aid. The Student Loan Support Center will then contact you with further instructions. Or, you can contact the Student Loan Support Center directly at 800-557-7394. If approved with an endorser, the PLUS MPN cannot be used for multiple PLUS loans, but is only good for the academic year or term the endorsed loan was approved for by the U.S. Department of Education. If approved with a credit appeal, a new PLUS MPN is not required. PLUS Credit Counseling must be completed at https://studentaid.gov/ for PLUS loans approved with an endorser or credit appeal. Interest Rates / Fees The current interest rate for a PLUS loan is determined each June for new loans being processed for the upcoming award year, which runs from July 1 to the following June 30. The fixed interest rate will be for the life of the loan. Interest begins accruing at the time of disbursement. The government will deduct an origination (processing) fee from each PLUS loan disbursement. Refer to https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/types/loans/interest-rates for the actual interest rate and origination fee for your PLUS loan. How does my student receive the funds? The funds from a PLUS loan are made in two equal disbursements for a two-semester loan. At least one-half of the loan period must elapse before the second disbursement can be released. The PLUS loan amount will credit to the student’s Bursar account no earlier than the first day of class each semester. A disbursement funds letter is mailed to the parent’s address when funds credit. PLUS loan funds that exceed student charges will be refunded to the parent or student as indicated by the parent during the online application process and in coordination with the Bursar’s Office refund guidelines. A parent has the right to cancel all or any portion of the loan within 14 days of the loan crediting the student’s Bursar account. Repayment on a PLUS loan begins once the loan is fully disbursed. The first payment is due 60 days after the final disbursement. A parent may choose to defer repayment while the student for whom the parent borrowed is enrolled at least half-time and for an additional six months after the student ceases to be enrolled at least half-time. Refer to https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/repayment/plans for repayment plans. 2021-2022 Important Loan Information for PLUS/Private Loan Options for Undergraduate Students All federal loans a parent applies for will be submitted to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) and will be accessible by guarantee agencies, lenders, loan servicers, and schools determined to be authorized users of the data system. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT