Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu About the University About the University Our Mission Strategic Plan TU Commitment President Provost Executive Staff Board of Trustees History & Traditions Points of Pride Fast Facts Admission Undergraduate Admission International Admission Graduate Admission Law Admission Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Applying for Aid Award Notification Renewing Financial Aid Accepting Aid Receiving Aid Changes to Aid Study Abroad Financial Aid Summer Financial Aid Scholarships Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Loans Loans Direct Subsidized Loan Direct Unsubsidized Loan Direct Graduate PLUS Loan Direct Parent PLUS Loan Private Loan Loan Disbursement & Repayment Information Loan Counseling Self-Report Enrollment for Deferment Student Employment Federal Verification Process Important Facts to Know Important Facts to Know Policies Student Consumer Information Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Services Academics Explore Programs Accreditation Academic Calendar Advising Bulletin (Graduate) Bulletin (Undergraduate) Faculty Academic Journals & Publications Integrative & Experiential Learning Global Engagement Honors Program McFarlin Library Research Schedule of Courses Starfish Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge (TURC) University School Colleges College of Arts & Sciences College of Business College of Engineering & Natural Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Law Graduate School Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Housing & Dining Requirement Housing and Dining Options and Rates Housing & Dining Schedules and Details Housing Selection Apply for Housing Current Student Info Incoming Student Info Residence Hall Life Residence Hall Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Fisher South Fisher West Suites Hardesty Hall LaFortune House John Mabee Hall Lottie Jane Mabee Hall Campus Housing Leadership Summer Residence Hall Housing Apartment Life Apartment Life Housing and Dining Options and Rates Brown Village Lorton Village Mayo Village Norman Village University Square West Park Village Living Learning Communities Greek Housing Accessibility Gender Inclusive Living Dining Services Dining Services Locations Mobile Dining Meal Plans Hurricane Gold Dollars Catering Nutrition Student Experience Student Experience Campus Services HQ Academic Advising Academic Advising Advising Forms Meet the Staff Meet with an Advisor New Student Enrollment Accessibility Student Access About Student Access Accessibility Resources Accessibility Services Coaching Groups D-Cares Hardship Assistance Pathfinders Forms, Guidelines, Policies FAQs Contact Student Access Bookstore Campus Security Campus Security Campus Safety Measures Security Services University Policies Crime Reports Crisis Management Plan Contact Campus Security (Non-Emergency Use Only) CaneCareers CaneCareers Students & Alumni Employers Exploring Majors & Careers Career Planning Resources Finding a Job or Internship Career Labs & Events Salary & Placement Statistics Job Placement Guarantee Meet Our Staff Contact Career Development Commencement Commencement Information for Graduates Commencement FAQs Final Bell Counseling Services Counseling Services CAPS Staff CAPS Services The Self-Help Toolkit Virtual Mental Health Workshops Self-Help Mobile Applications Collection Self-Help Collection Mental Wellbeing & COVID-19 Mental Health First Aid Community Mental Health Resources Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Financial Wellness Student Financial Wellness Meet Our Staff Workshops & Events Resources Fitness & Recreation Campus Recreation Fitness Center Information Intramural Sports Racquetball Courts Fitness Classes Personal Trainers Jobs at CFC Contact Campus Recreation Global Engagement Sorority & Fraternity Life Sorority & Fraternity Life National Pan-Hellenic Council NPC Chapters NIC Chapters Recruitment Information Greek Terminology Greek FAQs Contact the Office of Sorority & Fraternity Life Health Center Health Center Immunization Compliance Policy Services Offered Patient Rights and Responsibilities Orientation & Leadership New Student Programs New Student Orientation Orientation for Parents Peer Mentors Contact New Student Programs Parents & Families Parents & Families Welcome Messages TU Parent & Family Association Resources for Parents Parent FAQs Parking on campus Student Activities Student Activities Student Organizations Campus Ministries Involvement Opportunities Student Life Student Life Student Handbook, Policies, Student Commitment and Pledge Notification of Rights under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (“FERPA”) Notice of Rights under Title IX CaneCares Contact Student Affairs Student Association Student Success Resources Student Success Resources Nontraditional Students Current Students International Students Commuter Students Incoming Freshmen Veterans Transfer Students Success Coaches Success Coaches About Us Our Approach and Services Schedule an Appointment Meet the Staff Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention & Education Reporting Sexual Violence Advocacy Alliance Getting Care Your Rights at TU Resources Helping a Friend Current Efforts Get Involved Get Informed Definitions Policies and Laws Alcohol and Consent Frequently Asked Questions Title IX Tutoring Veterans Veterans Yellow Ribbon Program McKee Student Veterans Center Transcripts & Financial Aid VA Benefits & Scholarships TU Student Veteran Association Veterans Career Development and Student Success Frequently Asked Questions Contact the Veterans Center University Initiatives Accessibility Community Lecture Series Community Service Coronavirus Mitigation Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Sustainability True Blue Neighbors KWGS (NPR) Presidential Lecture Series Staff Advisory Council Offices Offices Directory Bursar Bursar Tuition Payment Policy Methods of Payment Tuition Payment Plans Authorized User Access Student Health Insurance Student Tuition Insurance Bursar Resources Meet the Bursar Team Contact the Bursar’s Office Business/Controller Campus Security Counseling Services Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilities Management Health Center Health Center Services Offered Immunization Compliance Policy Patient Rights and Responsibilities Human Resources Human Resources Job Search Faculty Positions Employee Benefits Applicants Rights Staff Advisory Council Staff Commitment Awards Information for Employees Information Technology Information Technology About IT Applications Policies/Guidelines Hardware Requirements Support Services University Initiatives Institutional Research & Data Analytics Integrative & Experiential Learning Integrative & Experiential Learning Honors Program JumpStart Nationally Competitive Scholarships Tulsa Undergraduate Research Challenge World’s Challenge Challenge Parking on campus Registrar Research & Sponsored Programs Strategic Marketing & Communications The Union Title IX Student Life University Advancement & Alumni Engagement University Advancement & Alumni Engagement Why give How to give Where to give Planned Giving TU Alumni Make A Gift Quick Links News Events Maps Library Support TU TU Login Athletics Contact TU Information For... Incoming Freshmen Transfer Students Current Students Graduate Students International Students Parents & Families Job Seekers Employees Veterans Alumni News & Media Starfish Training Starfish Rollout Timeline Quick Guides & Tools Faculty & Staff Resources Implementation Committee Close Menu × Close Menu Common Questions How much does TU cost? What majors are offered? How do I interview for admission? How do I schedule a visit? How can I transfer to TU? Where is the new student checklist? How do a request a transcript? Where can I find job listings? How do I make a gift to TU? How do I login to the TU Portal? Where can I find the Course Catalog? Where is the Academic Calendar? How do I find out about events at TU? Where can I find information about disability accommodations? Close Search Grants & State Scholarship Programs FINANCIAL AID Scholarships First Time Entering Freshmen First Time Entering Transfer Scholarships Prior to Fall 2019 Outside Undergraduate Scholarships Grants & State Scholarship Programs Grants and State Scholarship Programs Grants are gift aid that are awarded based on financial need. Grants do no have to be repaid. The FAFSA must be filed to be considered for the grants and certain state programs listed below. Federal Grants Federal Pell Grant This grant is available to undergraduates with a maximum award of $6,345 based on an entitlement computation formula and federal funding. Application is made through the FAFSA. Pell funding will credit the student’s account no earlier than the first day of class each semester if the award is finalized. Students who are Pell recipients and are receiving scholarships that cover their charges in full must contact the Bursar’s Office to obtain information on how to purchase their required books in the bookstore. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) This federal grant is awarded to undergraduate students showing financial need with priority given to Federal Pell Grant recipients. The number of awards depends on the annual funding allocations set by the U.S. Department of Education. TEACH Grant (currently not participating) Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education Grant is for students who are completing or who plan to complete coursework that is required to begin a career in teaching and who agree to teach full-time for at least four years as a highly qualified teacher; at a school or educational service agency servicing low income students and in a high need field. The four years of teaching must be completed within eight years after you complete or otherwise cease to be enrolled in the program for which you received a TEACH Grant. This teaching requirement is known as your TEACH Grant obligation. In order to qualify for a TEACH Grant as an entering college student, you must be making a 3.25 GPA or be in the 75th percentile on admission tests (i.e. SAT, ACT, GRE). Students must maintain a 3.25 GPA during the course of receiving the grant. Prior to receiving your TEACH Grant, a student must complete an Agreement to Serve (ATS) for that year. The session consists of a TEACH Grant Overview and 3 additional sections that cover: (1) TEACH Grant ATS, (2) Service Obligations, (3) Conversion of a TEACH Grant to a loan. Students may receive approximately $3,800/yr. for their first undergraduate program with the maximum allowed being $16,000. Graduate students may receive approximately $3,800/yr. with the maximum of $8,000. Each student upon completion of their undergraduate program/graduate program must complete exit counseling on the student access website. University Grants University Grant This grant is made possible from general funds budgeted each year with approval of the TU Board of Trustees and are only available to full-time undergraduate students. Renewal is based upon evidence of need determined by the FAFSA. During the semester, these awards may be underwritten by an endowed or supported scholarship. The total amount of the award will not change if underwritten. IMPORTANT! If you are a student athlete, you must contact The University of Tulsa Athletic Compliance Office to determine if you are eligible to accept this grant per the NCAA rules. Early Filer’s Grant The Early Filer’s Grant is a $1,000 renewable grant. This grant is available for eight semesters as long as the student is enrolled full-time. It is not necessary that families file the FAFSA annually to receive the renewal of this grant. Transfer students are not eligible for this grant. This will not be awarded to new students effective Fall 2018. IMPORTANT! If you are a student athlete, you must contact The University of Tulsa Athletic Compliance Office to determine if you are eligible to accept this grant per the NCAA rules. Hurricane Pledge TU will match dollar for dollar Oklahoma’s Promise funding for students who are eligible to receive Oklahoma’s Promise. TU’s match is limited to tuition expenses for fall and spring semesters only. Students must meet all eligibility requirements that are necessary to receive Oklahoma’s Promise. This will not be awarded to new students effective Fall 2018. Need Based Housing Grant This grant is only available to students who began at TU in the fall of 2016 or after, filed a FAFSA and have a calculated EFC of $30,000 or less. This award is only available for the fall and spring, and the student must incur university housing charges. For renewal, the student must have lived in campus housing a minimum of one semester during their first year of attendance. Value equals $2,000. This funding will not be awarded to new students effective Fall 2019. Important! If you are a student athlete, you must contact The University of Tulsa Athletic Compliance Office to determine if you are eligible to receive this grant per NCAA rules. State Funds Oklahoma Tuition Aid Grant (OTAG) Oklahoma residents may qualify for awards up to $1,300. Application is made by completing the FAFSA. Early application is important, as funding is limited. The FAFSA must be received by the processing center as soon as possible after October 1 as funds are awarded on a first-come, first-served basis until depleted. For detailed program requirements, please visit the OSRHE OTAG page. Billing is done the 3rd week of classes. Funds will credit the student’s account upon receipt of the check from the State Treasurer’s Office. Students who are not Oklahoma residents are encouraged to contact their home state to inquire about the availability of grant assistance. Oklahoma Tuition Equalization Grant (OTEG) Oklahoma residents meeting certain income categories may receive $2,000 in assistance. These recipients are chosen by TU according to regulations. Funding is limited and may be used to offset university scholarships. Application is made through the FAFSA. This grant is a need-based grant and renewability depends on the family’s income. OTEG is billed the 3rd week of classes. Funds will credit the student’s account upon receipt of the check from the State Treasurer’s Office. Oklahoma’s Promise To receive Oklahoma’s Promise, a student must have applied during their 8th, 9th or 10th grade year of high school. They must be an Oklahoma resident, file a FAFSA annually, and have completed the requirements as set by the program. OK Promise students graduating high school in 2018 and thereafter may not receive total award payments for more than 129 semester credit hours during their five years of scholarship eligibility, unless their degree program requires more hours.* The 129-credit-hour total is based on hours that are “paid” by OK Promise funds. Therefore, concurrent courses, AP credits, hours transferred in from out-of-state and remedial courses are not counted in this calculated total. Once the student reaches the 129-credit-hour limit, the student is no longer eligible for the scholarship, even if they have not completed their bachelor’s degree (unless the degree requires more than 129 credit hours). For detailed program requirements, please visit the OSRHE. Oklahoma’s Promise is billed after the 3rd week of classes. Funds will credit the student’s account upon receipt of the check from the State Treasurer’s Office. *Only the required credit hours for a single degree will be considered. The 129-credit-hour limit will not be extended due to the student changing degree programs, seeking an additional major or minor, pursuing more than one bachelor’s degree, etc. Oklahoma Academic Scholars (OKAC) The State of Oklahoma determines eligibility and awards scholarships to academically outstanding students who are Oklahoma residents planning to attend an Oklahoma public or private college or university. First year students must complete the application provided by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education. For detailed program requirements, please visit the OSRHE. Oklahoma Academic Scholars is billed the 3rd week of classes. Funds will credit the student’s account upon receipt of the check from the State Treasurer’s Office. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn COLLEGES Arts & Sciences Business Engineering & Natural Sciences Health Sciences Graduate School Law RESOURCES Apply Visit Virtual Tour Accreditation Email Subscription Contact TU SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policies Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT