Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About UW-IT Office of the VP Division and Unit Contacts Organizational Chart Employment Publications UW-IT Stories UW-IT Strategy UW-IT Metrics Services Get Help IT Connect Service Catalog Service & Equipment Billing Technology Recharge Fee Self-Sustaining Services & Rates Divisions Academic Services Customer Service & Support Information Management IT Infrastructure Research Computing and Strategy Office of the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Governance Committees IT Governance Enterprise Architecture Data Management Committee Collaborations eScience Institute Innovators Among Us Internet2 K-20 Education Network Pacific Northwest Gigapop UW Finance Transformation IT Connect UW Information Technology Menu About UW-IT Office of the VP Division and Unit Contacts Organizational Chart Employment Publications UW-IT Stories UW-IT Strategy UW-IT Metrics Services Get Help IT Connect Service Catalog Service & Equipment Billing Technology Recharge Fee Self-Sustaining Services & Rates Divisions Academic Services Customer Service & Support Information Management IT Infrastructure Research Computing and Strategy Office of the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Governance Committees IT Governance Enterprise Architecture Data Management Committee Collaborations eScience Institute Innovators Among Us Internet2 K-20 Education Network Pacific Northwest Gigapop UW Finance Transformation IT Connect Home UW Information Technology UW selects new UW-IT leader Learn more about Andreas Bohman, UW-IT’s new VP and UW’s chief information officer. Find the tech you need to succeed! An education at the UW is an exciting adventure! These tools will ease your journey and help propel you to success. Troubled waters Understanding what’s happening to Arctic lakes may help us save them. The physics of a deadly virus Immune response research hints at answers to fighting deadly coronavirus. In response to COVID-19, an entire community mobilizes online When the UW transitioned to remote work and instruction to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, it set in motion a massive operation to support tens of thousands. On the frontlines of COVID-19 UW-IT partners with UW Medicine to deliver innovative network solutions. About UW-IT Welcome to the organizational website for UW Information Technology. For information on IT tools and resources at the UW, visit IT Connect. UW-IT is the central IT organization for the University of Washington, providing critical technology support to all three campuses, UW medical centers and global research operations. UW-IT collaborates with University partners to advance teaching, learning, innovation and discovery at the UW. UW-IT’s responsibilities include: Strategic planning, oversight and direction of the University’s IT infrastructure, resources and services Consulting with academic, clinical and administrative units to evaluate their IT requirements, capabilities and requests Managing UW central IT infrastructure and services, including academic and collaborative applications, accessible technology, administrative systems and information management, classroom technology, computing infrastructure, customer service, data centers, information security and privacy, IT services and strategic sourcing, networking, technology business continuity and telecommunications Providing technology tools and resources for UW students, faculty and staff. Visit IT Connect for more information. Working with the President, Provost and appropriate governance committees to determine IT strategies, policies, priorities and resource allocations Representing UW’s IT interests at the state, national and international levels Looking for info about technology at the UW? Online: Visit IT Connect — your website for tech tools and resources at the UW. Need help? Here’s how to contact us: Email: help@uw.edu Phone: 206-221-5000 In-person: Walk-in locations Latest UW-IT announcements News from UW-IT UW picks new information technology leader Read about UW-IT’s new VP and UW’s chief information officer, Andreas Bohman. Keep on eye on your W-2s! during tax season, thieves are busy trying to wrestle W-2 information and other personal data from people, often with phishing attacks. Learn how to protect yourself. Working together for a better University Read how, despite a global pandemic, we collaborated with partners across all three campuses, UW medical centers and global research operations to continue to advance teaching, learning, innovation and discovery. UW-IT Internal University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA