Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Emergency Aid Bothell Seattle Tacoma Emergency Aid Emergency Aid Menu Emergency Aid Bothell Seattle Tacoma Home Emergency Aid We understand life can be unpredictable. Unexpected costs and needs can cause significant stress and impact your academic success and personal well being. That’s why the three campuses of the University of Washington have Emergency Aid to support currently enrolled UW students. Phishing emails are being received regarding CARES funding, do not provide personal information like your Social Security number or bank account information. You should only provide or update personal information through MyUW. The UW will use the information you have provided in MyUW to communicate with you or disburse aid to you. For more information regarding phishing scams, click here. Emergency Aid assists students who are experiencing unexpected financial hardships that may disrupt their education or prevent them from earning their UW degree, including: Food security Emergency medical/dental costs Housing and living expenses Family emergencies Natural disasters Loss of income And more… Aid may come in a variety of forms, including grants, loans and/or campus and community resources. Learn more about emergency aid resources on each campus: Bothell Seattle Tacoma Emergency Aid Status Emergency aid funding is limited. The university has allocated all Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds (HEERF) for COVID related requests. We may not be able to approve all requests, or fulfill requests at the entire requested amount. Due to the high volume of requests please allow 7-10 business days for review. Emergency Aid Request Form If you are in need of assistance, please submit an Emergency Aid request form. Your request will be reviewed and considered for limited grant and scholarship funding. Loans may also be suggested as an option to help meet your larger and longer-term expenses. Please know that we will do our best to address your circumstance, however, we cannot always meet your full request with the limited funding available. Complete form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA