Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Office of the President Menu UW Leadership Regents President Biography Vice presidents Invite the president Town Hall Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Home Office of the President How to invite the president to your event How to invite the president to your event We are here to help If you have any questions about the process, content or materials, please contact the liaison for executive events, Mattie Bess at 206-543-5020. Request President Cauce’s attendance at your event Complete and submit invite form Important notes: Please submit your request as early as possible, preferably 10-12 weeks prior to your event. For requests less than 30 days in advance, please contact Mattie Bess at 206-543-5020. Please be aware that changes to your event (i.e., start/end time, venue, speakers, etc.) may impact the president’s availability. If you have changes, please contact Mattie Bess at 206-543-5020. If you plan to have a photographer at this event, please let us know and share the photos with us within a week after the event. Upon review of your completed form, you will be notified of the status of your request. Event materials Once you have received confirmation of the president’s attendance, you will be asked to supply the following materials no later than 14 days prior to the event. Please send materials via email to Mattie Bess. Event briefing (download Word doc) Annotated guest list (download Word doc) Seating chart and room layout Suggested remarks If the president has a speaking role at your event, the presidential writer will be in contact with you regarding templates and deadlines for submitting your proposed talking points. Reimagining Safety at the University of Washington Creating learning, working and living environments that enable each of us to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being that brings together a range of resources in a coordinated, accountable manner. As we continuously evaluate the safety of our community, a rethinking of how we keep our University community safe is required. Learn More President’s Blog Celebrating AANHPI Heritage Month and the promise of an inclusive nation 6 days ago We can all play a part in working to end racist violence 2 weeks ago Ending violence against Indigenous people starts with ending silence around it 4 weeks ago On Husky Giving Day, we all have a chance to make a difference 2 months ago More Subscribe Email RSS President’s Twitter Tweets by amcauce Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA