Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Alumni - University Of Washington Menu Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information HUSKY FOR LIFE The alumni community is blooming! Explore what UWAA members make possible for students and our community. JOIN NOW! Learn more upcoming events see all events Class of 2022 UW Tacoma Photos at the Big W Thurs. June 2, 2022 Pose for professional photos at the Big W in your cap and gown or Husky gear! Link Art + Art History + Design 2022 Graduation Exhibitions April 5-June 6, 2022 Works on display from UW undergrad and graduate students. Link Get Together Summer Sports with the UWAA Save on tickets, sit with your fellow Huskies and support UWAA student scholarships! Link School of Music UW Symphony and Concerto Competition Winners Fri. June 3, 2022 David Alexander Rahbee conducts the UW Symphony in an end-of-year performance. Link Class of 2022 Seattle Pop-up Play: Pic Me! Thurs. June 2, 2022 Make memories at photo stations around the HUB. Giant inflatable Husky, anyone? Link programs & resources lifelong learning UW Alumni Book Club From personal stories to transformative fiction... Let's dig into amazing books! Link Audio Series Career Conversations Relevant talks for your professional development, from building relationships to setting boundaries. Link Make your voice heard UW Impact Learn more about UW Impact, the UWAA’s legislative advocacy program. Link husky network UW Husky Landing A powerful professional networking tool for the UW community. Link Race, equity and justice Race, Equity and Justice Resources Resources to advance diversity, equity, inclusion and anti-racist action at the UW and beyond. Link news & publications see all stories March 2022 UW Magazine Jean Smart, Kelly ECC, For the Love of iPhone, and The Voice of Yakima Valley. Link UW Magazine Autism in the Spotlight From legally blind to the hero of his own story, actor Mickey Rowe, '11, chronicles his journey. Link VIEWPOINT MAGAZINE Honoring Frank Irigon Activist and advocate Frank Irigon, '76, '79, honored with 2022 Odegaard Award. Link Spring 2022 Viewpoint Telling the story of diversity at the University of Washington. Link UW Magazine For the Love of iPhone Tom Love’s, '72, '75, innovative programming language became the backbone of Apple. Link Together we will. UW alumni are passionate. Passionate about possibility, passionate about community and passionate about purple and gold. Sharing a connection across three campuses and extending to places all over the world, UW alumni are united in the belief that together we will make a difference. The UW Alumni Association is proud to support the collective passion of so many who stand up for the University of Washington. Join us. UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA