Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW The Innovation Imperative The Innovation Imperative Menu Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW Home The Innovation Imperative The impact of innovation at the UW Throughout more than 150 years of history, the UW has demonstrated an extraordinary track record of inventions and discoveries with impact across the globe. Consistently ranked the most innovative public university in the world, there is no limit to what we can achieve. Celebrating UW Asian/Pacific American innovators In celebration of National Asian American, Native Hawai’ian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, CoMotion recognizes these UW researchers making significant impact in their fields. Four UW researchers elected to the National Academy of Sciences for 2022 Four faculty members at the University of Washington have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences. The new members from the UW are: Elizabeth Buffalo, professor and chair of physiology and biophysics; Joseph Mougous, professor of microbiology; Dr. Jay Shendure, professor of genome sciences; and James Truman, professor emeritus of biology. Celebrating UW Women Innovators In celebration of Women's History Month, we recognize these UW researchers advancing important innovations in patient care, surgical procedures, health policy, TB treatment, and foster care. They all recently received CoMotion Innovation Gap Fund awards. Celebrating UW Black Innovators In celebration of Black History Month, CoMotion is proud to recognize these UW researchers who are advancing important innovations in chemical engineering, environmental engineering, and mechanical engineering. Drs. Carothers, Ray, and Olanrewaju were recently awarded CoMotion Innovation Gap Funds. The ‘golden age’ for research tools: Parse Biosciences raises $41.5M for single-cell tech Alex Rosenberg was a postdoc at the University of Washington when he co-founded a new biotech startup in 2018 and took the helm as CEO. The company is growing fast: Parse Biosciences launched its first products last year and on Tuesday announced $41.5 million in new funding. Startups and spinoffs Every UW college and school has launched startups and created spinoffs. Since 1990, UW has spun out 258 companies. These spinoffs have raised over $7.9 billion in funding with $4.7 billion secured over the past five years alone. Startup portfolio Success stories Startup success takes many forms – from standalone UW spinoffs and startups, to acquisitions of UW startups by leading companies, to licensing of UW IP to industry leaders for further development. Learn more Innovation happens everywhere at the UW Getting started: Whether you are a student, entrepreneur, investor, or other community member, these Frequently Asked Questions will guide you in the right direction. FAQ “Insights I developed at UW are what carried me forward towards running my own businesses.” – Keisha Credit, Master of Science in Entrepreneurship ’18 The innovation ecosystem The UW Innovation Imperative empowers students and researchers to learn, discover and build solutions to tomorrow’s challenges. It encourages innovation by providing the space and opportunity for people from all backgrounds — from the humanities to the sciences, the poetic and the pragmatic — to connect, imagine and discover. Learn the skills The UW offers a wide variety of educational and learning opportunities to build students’ skills in innovation and entrepreneurship. Explore programs Find a class Get hands-on experience Innovation happens in every corner of the UW — and there’s no better way to expand your skill set than to participate in a hands-on kind of way. Competitions and hackathons Makerspaces Student clubs Bring ideas to life A strong community is critical for entrepreneurs to bring new ideas to life. Important milestones along the journey include mentorship, lessons from industry leaders and alumni, and pursuing funding opportunities. Find a mentor Accelerators and incubators Funding opportunities Build your network Join us for events that will open your eyes, push your boundaries, and grow your network. Some are open to the public. Explore events University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA