Skip to main content Press Spacebar to Enter/Exit Menu MENU Search Search Main navigation Home About Us People Application Info Program Resident Life Make a Gift Quick Links Dept. of Medicine UW Medicine Intranet Workday Socials Instagram YouTube Twitter Facebook Training future leaders in medicine Our Internal Medicine Residency Program offers a supportive and customizable training environment to meet your unique goals. apply about us People Contact Diversity Research Locations Pathways Program Variety of training opportunities Find the training program that best suits your interests and future career path. Training Residency Countless unique experiences UW offers a variety of enriching opportunities to progress your career and make lifelong memories. Resident Life Seattle Diversity Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) are part of our core values and central to every aspect of our program. learn more DEI Resident Research Spotlight Duncan Hussey, MD: Uncovering relationships between body composition and outcomes from immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy learn more research Explore some of the clinical locations in which our residents rotate. Locations uwmedicine Mandatory Vaccination UW employees are required to be fully vaccinated as a condition of employment unless a medical or religious exemption is approved. Learn more COVID-19 Fast Facts 184 Residents 20+ Clinical Locations 100+ Opportunities for mentored research 9 Specialized Pathways 13 Chief Residents About Us Welcome from the Program Director The Internal Medicine Residency Program at the University of Washington is committed to providing a comprehensive learning experience for residents, built on our principle of the three C's: Curiosity, Compassion, and Community. We are a close-knit group of learners, educators, and mentors who strive to cultivate a supportive and inclusive environment where the breadth and depth of research and clinical opportunities provides one of the richest training experiences in the country. About Us Meet Dr. Steinberg Jobs Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility ©2022 University of Washington