Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Log In/Out Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters Search form Search Vires, Artes, Mores A university-wide donor recognition society Toggle navigation Site Menu Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU The Vires, Artes, Mores donor recognition society takes its name from the Latin words for strength, skill and character found in the university seal and was created to thank those committed individuals and organizations whose support has made a positive and lasting impact on the Florida State University community. Honorees in Vires, Artes, Mores have exhibited gracious dedication to the university’s long-term vision, ambitious initiatives and transformative ideas. Inclusion in Vires, Artes, Mores begins at $250,000 of cumulative support given through five of the university’s Direct Support Organizations—FSU Foundation, Seminole Boosters, FSU Alumni Association, The John & Mable Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, and FSU Real Estate Foundation. Vires, Artes, Mores Levels More than just stunning in color and appearance, gemstones are timeless and classic treasures that are passed on from generation to generation. Inspired by this idea, Vires, Artes, Mores honorees are classified by their level of giving through gems—garnet, sapphire, emerald and diamond—and will be remembered for years to come for their commitment to Florida State University. Diamond Society: $10 million + Emerald Society: $5 million-$9.9 million Sapphire Society: $1 million-$4.9 million Garnet Society: $250,000-$999,999 Vires, Artes, Mores Donor Honor Roll The following gift types are counted toward inclusion in Vires, Artes, Mores: Outright gifts, including cash, stock and property; Pledge payments; Corporate matching gifts; Gifts-in-Kind; Membership revenue generated from the Alumni Association, Seminole Boosters and Ringling Museum; and Irrevocable planned gifts. Anonymous gifts are not counted in recognition societies unless otherwise noted. To view your University recognition total, please visit one.fsu.edu. Please note: you must have a oneFSU account to access your personal recognition totals. If you do not have an account, please visit one.fsu.edu and click on new user registration. Your account will be activated two days after registration. Event Photos 2021 Vires, Artes, Mores Reception Donor Wall Unveiling © Florida State University 600 W. College Avenue Tallahassee, FL 32306 US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close