Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home Resources Campus Partners Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Campus Partners Student Veterans Center CAMPUS PARTNERS FSU Panama City Campus Florida State University Panama City is committed to supporting our student veterans and military dependent students by assisting them in their request for certification of VA educational benefits, earned through their service and sacrifice to our country. At FSU Panama City, our VA certification process has been centralized through the FSU Student Veterans Center in Tallahassee to ensure compliance and that services are in keeping with our commitment to the needs of our student veterans and military dependents. All FSU student veterans and VA benefit recipients have priority registration for courses following their first semester, as well as access to the James and Cameron Skinner Veterans Ready Room – a space on the Panama City campus dedicated for studying, small group meetings, or decompressing and socializing with fellow veteran students between classes. Staff at the FSU Student Veterans Center in Tallahassee look forward to working with our FSU Panama City student veterans and military dependents, assisting them in their certification process and answering any questions you may have regarding your VA benefits certification. FSU Panama City students may also visit Jim Allen or the staff in the Academic Advising & Student Success Center in Holley rm. C117 on the FSU Panama City campus for additional support and advising services. The Graduate School Florida State provides current and former service members a wealth of highly regarded options for advanced study. Graduate education at FSU includes more than 220 master’s, specialist, and doctoral degree programs, as well as professional programs in law, nursing and medicine. To learn more about graduate school at FSU, please inquire here. The Graduate School offers two academic certificates. The Preparing Future Faculty (PFF) Certificate assists Florida State’s graduate students prepare for future faculty work. Through participation in coursework, workshops/seminars, and mentoring, PFF Fellows increase their awareness of expectations for faculty and of resources available to aid in scholarly careers. To prepare graduate students for professions outside of academia, the Graduate School offers a graduate certificate, Preparing Future Professionals (PFP),that includes coursework, professional development workshops, an internship/practicum or interviews in the field, and resume’ and portfolio development. The Program for Instructional Excellence (PIE),a unit of The Graduate School strive to enrich the learning experience for undergraduate students at FSU by supporting the teaching efforts of graduate student teaching assistants through its various services. PIE offers professional development programs that create opportunities to foster a sense of collaboration and community among all graduate student teaching assistants at FSU. Veteran/military students have the opportunity to participate in campus governance through the Congress of Graduate Students. Through participation in COGS, veteran/military students benefit the entire graduate-student community at Florida State – and particularly its veterans – while also sharpening their leadership and professional skills. Veterans' Entrepreneurship Programs The Florida State University College of Business is proud of its international reputation, as well as the individual attention our faculty members give students who hail from around the world. Our faculty members are recognized worldwide and serve as visiting professors and lecturers at other prestigious institutions. The college takes pride in its alumni, who are respected corporate leaders and entrepreneurs making their mark on the global marketplace. The Jim Moran Institute and our partner, the Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF) at Syracuse University, offer entrepreneurship training programs for veterans and their family members. The Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans Accelerate (EBV Accelerate) program provides veteran business owners the tools and coaching needed to propel their business to the next level: sustainable growth. The Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans' Families (EBV-Families) program is an education and self-employment training program that provides cutting-edge, experiential training in entrepreneurship and small business management for immediate family members and caregivers of veterans. Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans (EBV) Accelerate Ready to take your business to the next level? EBV Accelerate is a 3-phase program that gives veterans with a successful business the tools and coaching to propel their business to the next phase: sustainable growth. To learn more about the program, you must apply through their EBV Accelerate website. Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans' Families (EBV-F) Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans’ Families EBV-F (EBV-F) is an education and self-employment training program founded in 2010 and expanded to Florida State University in 2012. The EBV-F program is designed to take advantage of the skills, resources and infrastructure of higher education to offer cutting-edge, experiential training in entrepreneurship and small business management. The program leverages the flexibility inherent in small business ownership to provide a vocational path forward for military family members. EBV-F integrates training in entrepreneurship with caregiver and family issues, positioning participants to launch and grow a small business in a way that is complementary or enhancing to other family responsibilities. To learn more about the program, you must apply through the EBV-F website. Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans (EBV) Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans (EBV) is a novel, one-of-a-kind initiative designed to leverage the skills, resources and infrastructure of higher education to offer cutting-edge, experiential training in entrepreneurship and small business management to post-9/11 veterans and their families. The aim of the program is to open the door to economic opportunity for our veterans and their families by developing their competencies in creating and sustaining an entrepreneurial venture. To learn more about the program, you must apply through the EBV website. The Career Center The Career Center at Florida State University thanks you for your service. We are here to assist as you transition from Service Member to Student Veteran, and plan for post-graduation. One critical factor for post-graduation success is learning to translate your unique skill set or experiences acquired through military service into transferable knowledge, skills, and abilities. While civilian hiring employers and graduate school programs highly value your military skills and experiences, you must be able to describe them in a way civilians can easily understand on a resume, cover letter, networking, or during an interview. Our resources are designed to help showcase your military experiences during the civilian employment hiring process as well as the graduate school application. These resources can be found at our website specifically created for our FSU Student Veteran population, https://www.career.fsu.edu/students/Maximizing-Your-Diversity/veteran-students. title-inside title-centered 2 Back to Top Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media