Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home Students Graduate Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Graduate Students Student Veterans Center GRADUATE STUDENTS Veterans Alliance The Veterans Alliance is the proud symbol of Florida State's campus-wide commitment to veteran success, and merchandise with the arrowhead symbols is available for purchase at Garnet and Gold (garnetandgold.com). This Tallahassee retailer generously provides 70% of the net proceeds from its arrowhead-merchandise sales to veteran services at FSU. Graduate Students Florida State provides current and former service members a wealth of highly regarded options for advanced study. Graduate education at FSU includes more than 220 master's, specialist, and doctoral degree programs, as well as professional programs in law, nursing and medicine. Prestigious and Affordable Florida State is one of the Top 20 public universities in the country, and the support the Student Veterans Center provides the university's veteran/military students has established FSU as a national beacon of veteran support and success. Designated a preeminent university by the state of Florida, FSU combines acclaimed strength in the arts and humanities with renowned leadership in the sciences. Owning to its nationally ranked programs, distinguished faculty and championship athletics, Florida State is one of the most recognized and respected universities in the world. Admission Admission to Graduate School is competitive and students must meet both university and departmental requirements. Information on applying is on the Graduate Admissions website, and The Graduate School Enrollment Team is eager to provide assistance. Please note that some academic programs impost more restrictive admission requirements (and most have earlier application deadlines) than those established by the university. Online Graduate Programs A number of Florida State's highly regarded graduate degrees may be earned entirely online. Federal VA educational benefits – as well as tuition assistance through the military branches – may be applied to FSU's online programs. In addition, tuition waivers are available for eligible out-of-state veterans and their dependents. Visit the Office of Distance Learning website for more information, and refer to the Student Veterans Center's Application Checklist for information on applying for benefits. Veterans' Voice in Student Government Veteran/military students have the opportunity to participate in campus governance through the Congress of Graduate Students. COGS is a coalition of grad students who represent FSU entities within Student Government and it includes one seat for a Veterans Advocate. This position is typically filed by a graduate student who is a military service member or veteran. Through participation in COGS, veteran/military students benefit the entire graduate-student community at Florida State – and particularly its veterans – while also sharpening their leadership and professional skills. The only commitment is a biweekly meeting. title-inside title-centered 2 Back to Top Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media