Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Veteran Transition and Integration Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Programming Collaborators Interactive College Map Video Library News & Articles Attaining Higher Education Find Your Calling: Career Transition Principles for Returning Veterans University Studies for Student Veterans Supporting Veteran Success in Higher Education The Paradigm Switch, for Military Spouses Applied Digital Skills Keeping Graduate School on the Horizon Citi FourBlock Student Veterans of America Warrior Scholar Project Higher Education Veteran Career Transition Educational Technology Higher Ed Heroes Supporting Veteran Success in Higher Ed Tapped Potential Veteran Transition and Integration Home Image Carousel with 6 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Supporting service members and veterans in transition. Please follow us on social media. Slide 2: ROTC Commissioning 2019 - Michael Abrams, Marine Corps Major and Executive Director of CVTI administers oath to new officers Slide 3: The first flag-raising ceremony at Columbia in more than forty years was held on the Morningside campus on November 11, 2010. John McClelland, '11 GS (right). Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. Slide 4: Formation of soldiers marching on West 116th Street, 1917 or 1918. Courtesy, Columbia University Archives. Slide 5: ROTC members at attention on the steps of Low Library, 1922. Courtesy, Columbia University Archives. Slide 6: We currently offer three MOOCs on the edX platform. Supporting service members and veterans in transition. Please follow us on social media. ROTC Commissioning 2019 - Michael Abrams, Marine Corps Major and Executive Director of CVTI administers oath to new officers The first flag-raising ceremony at Columbia in more than forty years was held on the Morningside campus on November 11, 2010. John McClelland, '11 GS (right). Eileen Barroso/Columbia University. Formation of soldiers marching on West 116th Street, 1917 or 1918. Courtesy, Columbia University Archives. ROTC members at attention on the steps of Low Library, 1922. Courtesy, Columbia University Archives. We currently offer three MOOCs on the edX platform. Previous Next Supporting excellence and innovation in transition programming for current and former members of the armed forces Columbia University launched the Center for Veteran Transition and Integration to have a direct and lasting impact on the issue of veteran transition and upward mobility by creating and providing access to the best-in-class tools and programming veterans need as they transition from active service to college and the workforce. Our Free Online Courses on edX Creating world class programming to provide far-reaching impact Content Creation Content Creation Utilizing a team of educational technologists and instructional designers, the Center creates robust online educational programming that facilitates transition from service to academia and the workforce. Program Delivery Program Delivery The Center identifies and partners with universities, employers, and veteran support organizations that are capable of delivering the Center’s research and content directly to transitioning veterans nationally. National Impact National Impact The Center provides national program management of all educational content and delivery platforms as well as ensures quality control, provide measures of effectiveness, and collects data for follow-on research, program refinement, and additional educational modules. Learn More About the Center The Center for Veteran Transition and Integration Team Curtis Rogers Vice Dean, School of General Studies and CVTI Founder Jason K. Dempsey Jason K. Dempsey Executive Director Beth E. Morgan Director of Higher Education Transition Michael Cennamo Associate Director of Educational Technology R.J. Jenkins Curriculum Designer Columbia University Glen Steinmacher Glen Steinmacher Assistant Director of Digital Media Production Google Map Location Center for Veteran Transition and Integration116th Street and Broadway · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 853-1586 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close