Skip to Content Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Open Close primary navigation Search Search Best Place For VetsExpand Collapse section Chancellors’ Enduring Commitment Historic Overview: WWI-Present National Veterans Resource CenterExpand Collapse section About Why SU? Drone Timelapse Donate NVRC Virtual Tour Admissions Featured SU Military Alumni Wall of Service StudentsExpand Collapse section Student Resources Prospective Students Advising Housing and Childcare Education BenefitsExpand Collapse section Office of Veteran Success VA Benefits Continuing & Returning Students Post-9/11 GI Bill® Statement of Benefits Yellow Ribbon Program VA Educational Programs Breakdown Military Tuition Assistance ConnectExpand Collapse section Recent News Subscribe to our Newsletter Update Your Contact Info Veteran Career Services About UsExpand Collapse section Advisory Board Members Vice Chancellor OVMA Staff Office of Veteran Success Staff Army ROTCExpand Collapse section About Army ROTC ROTC EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Additional Learning Opportunities Schedule a Visit ScholarshipExpand Collapse section Army ROTC Application Faculty & Staff Contact Army ROTC Air Force ROTCExpand Collapse section About Det 535Expand Collapse section Cadre Commander’s Welcome Program OverviewExpand Collapse section How to Join Scholarship Leadership Training Officer Careers Program Requirements & Standards FAQ – Prospective Cadets FAQ – Parents Cadet LifeExpand Collapse section Detachment Resources Silver Wings Arnold Air Society The Blue Stars National Society of Pershing Rifles Why Syracuse UniversityExpand Collapse section Crosstown Schools Map and Directions About Syracuse Benefits For Cadets Alumni Contact AFROTC Videos Contact Us Support UsExpand Collapse section Veteran Legacy Fund Impact Targeted Support ImpactExpand Collapse section Annual Reports Fast Facts Search Search Office of Veteran Success Home Syracuse University is The Best Place For Vets Office of Veteran success The mission of the Office of Veteran Success is to support the student veteran experience on campus by assisting with their veteran educational benefits and the veteran work-study program. The Office provides an opportunity for student veterans to build community in conjunction with the Student Veterans Organization and providing an exclusive veterans lounge. Link Utilizing your GI Bill® benefits can be confusing. While the VA determines eligibility for benefits, we can help navigate the process as well as answer questions about your GI Bill® benefits. OVS is located in Room 012 at 101 Waverly Avenue. Link Veterans Lounge & Study Room Link We have a dedicated lounge for all student veterans. The lounge provides student veterans a place to meet in a shared space. The lounge is located in Room 011 and the study room is located in Room 014 at 101 Waverly Avenue. Link Have a question? Reach the OVS staff here. Link GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill. More from this Section Chancellors’ Support National Veterans Resource Center Historic Overview: WWI-Present Featured SU Military Alumni National Veterans Resource Center | Daniel & Gayle D’Aniello Building | 101 Waverly Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy