Skip to Content Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Open Close primary navigation Search Search Best Place For VetsExpand Collapse section Chancellors’ Enduring Commitment Historic Overview: WWI-Present National Veterans Resource CenterExpand Collapse section About Why SU? Drone Timelapse Donate NVRC Virtual Tour Admissions Featured SU Military Alumni Wall of Service StudentsExpand Collapse section Student Resources Prospective Students Advising Housing and Childcare Education BenefitsExpand Collapse section Office of Veteran Success VA Benefits Continuing & Returning Students Post-9/11 GI Bill® Statement of Benefits Yellow Ribbon Program VA Educational Programs Breakdown Military Tuition Assistance ConnectExpand Collapse section Recent News Subscribe to our Newsletter Update Your Contact Info Veteran Career Services About UsExpand Collapse section Advisory Board Members Vice Chancellor OVMA Staff Office of Veteran Success Staff Army ROTCExpand Collapse section About Army ROTC ROTC EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Additional Learning Opportunities Schedule a Visit ScholarshipExpand Collapse section Army ROTC Application Faculty & Staff Contact Army ROTC Air Force ROTCExpand Collapse section About Det 535Expand Collapse section Cadre Commander’s Welcome Program OverviewExpand Collapse section How to Join Scholarship Leadership Training Officer Careers Program Requirements & Standards FAQ – Prospective Cadets FAQ – Parents Cadet LifeExpand Collapse section Detachment Resources Silver Wings Arnold Air Society The Blue Stars National Society of Pershing Rifles Why Syracuse UniversityExpand Collapse section Crosstown Schools Map and Directions About Syracuse Benefits For Cadets Alumni Contact AFROTC Videos Contact Us Support UsExpand Collapse section Veteran Legacy Fund Impact Targeted Support ImpactExpand Collapse section Annual Reports Fast Facts Search Search Home Current Students In this Section Current Students The Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) serves as Syracuse University’s single point of entry for all veteran and military related programs and initiatives. It collaborates and coordinates with all stakeholders to best serve veterans, military connected students, and military family members who are students or employees at Syracuse University. | Download the Resources for Veterans flyer Career Services Syracuse University provides strong support for veterans to develop their professional skills and enhance their careers. Learn more about the career development resources offered at www.careerservices.syr.edu. Contact: Jennifer Renee Pluta | jrpluta@syr.edu | (315) 443-7183 Chapter 31: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) The VR&E program assists Veterans with service-connected disabilities to prepare for, find, and keep suitable jobs. For Veterans with service-connected disabilities so severe that they cannot immediately consider work, VR&E offers services to improve their ability to live as independently as possible. Active Duty Service Members are eligible if they: Expect to receive an honorable discharge upon separation from active duty Obtain a VA memorandum rating or Integrated Disability Evaluation System (IDES) rating of 20% or more Veterans are eligible if they: Have received, or will receive an honorable or other than dishonorable discharge Have a VA service-connected disability rating of 10% with a serious employment handicap or 20% or more with an employment handicap Download the Chapter 31 Flyer Chapter 36: Education and Career Counseling Program Career Choice – understand the best career options based on your interests and capabilities Benefits Coaching – guidance on the effective use of VA benefits and/or other resources to achieve education and career goals Personalized Support – Academic or adjustment counseling and personalized support to help remove any barriers to success Eligibility: Transitioning servicemembers within six months prior to discharge from active duty, veterans within one year following discharge from active duty, any Servicemember or Veteran eligible for a VA education benefit, and all current VA education beneficiaries. Download the Chapter 36 Flyer Counseling and Wellness The Counseling Center encompasses services addressing mental health, sexual assault and relationship violence, and substance abuse issues. The center is staffed by experienced clinicians and are on campus to assist students in addressing concerns related to adjusting to college life. Learn m Disability Services Syracuse University supports and serves as a resource for student veterans with disabilities. Learn more Contact: (315) 443-4498 | TDD: (315) 443-1371 Financial Aid Syracuse University provides a number of benefits beyond the Post-9/11 GI Bill®. Many degree programs also offer specific benefits. Learn more Freshman Forum Syracuse University offers a Freshman and Transfer Student Forum for incoming student veterans to facilitate transitioning, academic mapping, and encouraging meeting fellow veterans. Contact: Jennifer Jeffery at jjeffery@syr.edu G.I. Bill Education Benefits Form Use the G.I. Bill® Education Benefits Form to file for benefits every semester. Housing Learn more about housing at Syracuse University here Libraries (VMA Librarian) Syracuse University has a reference librarian dedicated to helping veteran and military students. She is located in Bird Library. She can help with papers, research projects, and simply using the many library services. Abby Kasowitz-Scheer Bird Library, Room 200 315-443-1943 | askasowi@syr.edu Onondaga County Veteran Discount Card Onondaga County is reaching out to county businesses and merchants to encourage participation in a discount program designed to recognize and thank military Veterans for their sacrifices and service to our country. SALUTE National Honor Society SALUTE (Service-Academics-Leadership-Unity-Tribute-Excellence) is a national honor society for student veterans and military in 2-year and 4-year institutions of higher education. Syracuse has a chapter to honor our veteran and military connected students. Scholarships CollegeScholarships.org listing of scholarships for veterans. Heroes’ Legacy Scholarship for unmarried dependents of the fallen or disabled under age 23. Study Abroad Did you know that nearly 40% of Syracuse students study abroad? Learn more at suabroad.syr.edu. Syracuse University Student Veterans Organization This SU organization is a recognized chapter of Student Veterans of America and a recognized student association group on Syracuse University’s campus. Learn More | Facebook Syracuse Veterans' Writing Group The Syracuse Veterans’ Writing group is open to all veterans and their supporters The focus of our group is on writing nonfiction accounts or “true stories” of life in and out of the military. Veterans of all ages, branches of the military, and conflicts are welcome. You need not have any prior experience with writing, just a desire to write your stories and share them with others. Learn more | Facebook Group Veterans Legal Clinic The Veterans Legal Clinic (VLC) assists veterans with claims before the Department of Veterans Affairs and discharge upgrades. Other clinical programs at the College of Law have dedicated priority slots to assist veterans in the areas of family law, elder law, community development, consumer law, tax law, criminal law, disability rights, and bankruptcy. To reach the VLC or any of the other clinics, please contact the Office of Clinical Legal Education at (315) 443-4582 | Learn more Veterans Lounge Enjoy a dedicated space for student veterans to socialize and study. 700 University Ave., Room 310 315-443-9297 Monday-Thursday 1-8 p.m. and Friday 1-4 p.m. (Summer hours vary) Veterans Resource Center Syracuse University has its own Veterans Resource Center (VRC) dedicated to providing services to veterans at the university, such as navigating military educational benefits like the GI Bill® and connecting with other veterans. Syracuse University participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program to enhance the benefits of the Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act for veterans, making higher education more affordable. To find out more and see if you qualify for benefits, contact: Keith Doss | (315) 443-3261 | veterans@syr.edu 700 University Ave., Room 107 315-443-3261 Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. VetSuccess on Campus Encouraging, promoting, and supporting Veterans to be successful in their educational and career endeavors. Who Can Receive Services? All student Veterans, Active Duty, and Dependents attending SU can access the Department of Veterans Affairs through a full time VA Counselor. What type of services are available? Guidance and support with your education benefits Career exploration and assistance in selecting a suitable career/major Electing your healthcare benefits with Veterans Healthcare Administration Assistance in understanding common readjustment difficulties and how this may impact school Coordinating with school faculty/staff to provide Veteran specific services (i.e. VA Certifying Official, Career Center, Student Disabilities Services, Academic Advising) Accessing, understanding, and applying for other VA benefits (i.e. Disability Compensation, Life Insurance, Education, Home Loan Guaranty, and Vocational Rehabilitation) Referrals for VA healthcare, medical, and mental health services Referrals for readjustment counseling services for eligible Veterans and their families Job placement assistance and coordination with Local Veterans’ Employment Representatives (LVER) and Disabled Veterans’ Outreach Program (DVOP) Locating community and other resources Download Flyer: Syracuse University VetSuccess on Campus | Contact: Katherine Untiedt | katherine.untiedt@va.gov | (315) 443-0177 Office Hours: Walk-in appointments Mondays through Fridays, 9-11 a.m. and 1-3 p.m. at 326G, 700 University Ave. Additional Links Register for Classes on MySlice Check Classes on Blackboard Scholarships for Military Families G.I. Bill® Information New York VA Family Resources SU VA Benefits Request Form Yellow Ribbon Information Veterans Success on Campus Information In this Section On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources National Veterans Resource Center | Daniel & Gayle D’Aniello Building | 101 Waverly Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy