Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home About us Veteran Alumni Society Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Veteran Alumni Society Student Veterans Center VETERANS ALUMNI SOCIETY In 1947, veterans returning from World War II enrolled at the Florida State College for Women and, as a result, FSCW became Florida State University. It is because of this proud veterans legacy – and in service to those currently enrolled service members, past and present – that Florida State has committed itself to creating and sustaining the most veteran friendly and empowering university in the nation. The Veterans Alumni Society was established to foster and enhance relationships between veteran alumni and currently enrolled student-veterans, as well as veterans who are Florida State faculty and staff members. Joining is easy! Just go to one.fsu.edu to create or login to your OneFSU profile, check the U.S. Military Veteran box and update your email, and you'll be automatically enrolled in the Veterans Alumni Society! The events calendar provides information on activities and events that veteran alumni are welcome to participate in. Please join us as we'll develop a truly special and permanent legacy for veterans at Florida State, with the aim of becoming a beacon for veterans services and support nationwide. Active-duty and veteran alumni of Florida State University may request a commemorative “challenge” coin by contacting Alumni Relations Coordinator Kathleen Harvey Helm at the Student Veterans Center at (850) 644-2174 or kharvey@fsu.edu. Please provide Kathleen with copies of documents verifying your military service (a redacted LES or DD214), your major at Florida State, and the year your graduated. (Documents other than an LES or DD214 will be accepted on a case-by-case basis.) Thank you for your service and support. We look forward to meeting you! title-inside title-centered 2 Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media