Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Faculty Faculty VETERANS SERVICES OVERVIEW Florida State takes pride in being recognized as a national beacon of veteran support and success and that reputation is elevated by the more than 300 faculty and staff members who served. The Student Veterans Center's guidance, assistance and activities are also available to veterans who work at FSU. Florida State proudly participates in veteran-preference hiring practices, and advice and direction are available through the SVC on VA benefits, state and local veteran resources, and the network of campus and community veteran-support offices and organizations. Information on Florida State policies pertaining to military/veteran students (drills, deployment, credit for military training, etc.) are provided below. Should you have questions or need additional information, please contact the Student Veterans Center at (850) 644-9562 or veteran@admin.fsu.edu, or stop by our offices at A4300 University Center. Policies & Procedures for Military Students The University faculty and staff will provide accommodations to those military students who experience unexpected training/drill, deployment, or change-of-status orders. Read More ACE Evaluation of Military Courses Includes links to off-campus housing as well as community, state, and national resources. Read More Campus Resources Contact or visit the offices below for direction, assistance and support. Read More Off-campus Resources Includes links to off-campus housing as well as community, state, and national resources. Read More title-inside title-centered 2 Back to Top Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media