Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home About us Student Organizations and Groups Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Student Organizations and Groups Student Veterans of America AT FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY Student Veterans of America (SVA) is a national organization that works to advocate for student veterans across the nation. The aim of this organization is simple: To empower student veterans to achieve their greatest potential, as well as provide opportunities for student veterans to effectively connect and expand upon their skills. By providing an educational experience that goes beyond the classroom, SVA leaders work hard to provide necessary resources and network support to ensure success for student veterans across the nation. Acting as a joint board of the Veterans Student Union (VSU) and Collegiate Veterans Association (CVA), Student Veterans of America (SVA) at FSU is just one of the many on-campus chapters of SVA that advocates for all student veteran needs. With a talented board of directors, SVA at FSU provides a multitude of opportunities for student veterans to actively get involved on-campus, forge friendships, and bring awareness to the student veteran community. SVA at FSU hosts and participates in a number of on-campus activities throughout the year, as well as put on more social events including game-day tailgates, community volunteering opportunities, and the annual Military Ball. To learn more about the organization and information on how to join, contact Julian Olivar. In addition, the Congress of Graduate Students, which is a unit of Student Government, has a seat available for a Veterans Advocate. Groups Get involved in campus life through FSU's veteran/military student organizations. Women's Veterans Alliance For FSU women who are military members, veterans, spouses, partners and supporters. The aim of this group is to provide veteran/military-connected women at Florida State with opportunities to interact, forge friendships, share insights and resources, and provide support and encouragement. Support can come in many forms – congratulatory messages, coffee get-togethers, date-night suggestions, job alerts, childcare recommendations, TV-show watch parties, and much more. To join this group, please visit the FSU Women's Veterans Alliance Facebook page. STUDENTS FOR AMERICA'S MILITARY The mission of Students for America’s Military (SAM) of FSU is to ACTIVELY provide support for our men and women in our armed forces – past, present, and future. We support veteran initiatives all year long while doing service projects and building connections, while giving back to active armed forces members by sending support to those deployed. On campus we also strive to spread the patriotic spirit and seek to host, co-host, or be involved in as many initiatives as possible to support our troops. For more information on how to get involved, please visit SAM's website. Stem Veterans USA at fsu STEM Veterans USA is an organization dedicated to networking veterans in a STEM program with internships and careers. More specifically, this group's focus is on networking veterans in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields with opportunity through Internship, Scholarship, Research, and Networking. For more information on this group, please visit the STEM Veterans USA's Facebook page. SOCIETY OF AMERICAN MILITARY ENGINEERS (SAME) Florida State University Panama City SAME is a national organization with both student and professional charters across the United States. Information on the FSU Panama City campus chapter is here. Breiana Leingang is the 2021-2022 chapter president and the advisor is Jim Allen. Student Organizations title-inside title-centered 2 Back to Top Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media