Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Student Veterans Center Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Military Dependent Scholarships Military Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Student Veterans Center Toggle navigation Home Students Future Students Current Students Graduate Students Educational Benefits FAQs Forms Request for Benefits Form Out-of-State Tuition Waiver Self-Identified Veterans Form Resources Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Military Dependent Scholarships Military Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Faculty Policies & Procedures for Military Students ACE Evaluations of Military Courses Off-Campus Resources for Veterans Donate Donation Options and Programs Online Donation Form Veterans Legacy Complex About Us Student Veterans Center Staff Veterans Advancement Council Student Organizations and Groups Veteran Alumni Society Arrowhead Merchandise Orientation IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS USING POST 9/11 GI BILL® BENEFITS Starting Spring semester 2022, students using Post-9/11 GI Bill® benefits will be required to verify their enrollment at the end of each month. Failure to verify for two consecutive months will interrupt the Monthly Housing Allowance (MHA) and/or kicker payments. A simple and convenient verification option is to sign up for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) text message verification. Students with a US mobile phone number on file with the VA will receive an opt-in text as their next enrollment period approaches. Students who do not have a US mobile phone number on file with VA will not be able to use text verification and instead be automatically enrolled into email verification system. Another option for students who do not opt-in for text is to call the VA Education Call Center at 888-442-4551 to verify their enrollment status. Home Resources Scholarships Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Scholarships Military Dependent Scholarships Military Scholarships Veteran Liaisons Strategies for Veteran Success Course Campus Partners Scholarships stem scholarship for students about to use up their VA Benefits Post-9/11 G.I. Bill® students in STEM (science, technology, engineering or mathematics) fields who have exhausted or are about to exhaust their VA educational benefits may be eligible for nine months (up to $30,000) of additional benefits through the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship. FSU Based Scholarships All scholarship or awards are processed within FS4U using the General Scholarship Application. Dr. Robert F. Brooks Chief Master Sergeant Fund General financial assistance or emergency funding for honorably discharged FSU student veterans or veteran-dependents who are in good academic standing and demonstrate a financial need. Contact the director of the Student Veterans Center to apply. Hundred Club of Broward County Endowed Scholarship Recipient must be a dependent of a currently employed law enforcement officer, firefighter or peace officer, or a child of a veteran who was killed in active duty. Applicants must have a minimum 2.0 GPA and be enrolled in at least six credit hours. Apply Lance Corporal Daniel B. Chaires Nursing Scholarship Fund Approximately $1,000 annually to an undergraduate nursing student who is or will be serving in the Armed Forces as a military nurse. Apply Thomas D. Clark Jr. Scholarship for Excellence Recipient must be a student in the College of Business who is a veteran of the United States military and in good academic standing. Apply Thomas M. and Eileen R. Culligan Award for Student Veterans Recipient must be a full-time student in the College of Social Sciences and Public Policy enrolled in a Master's degree program who is a honorably discharged veteran. Apply John W. Daves Veterans Support Fund Recipient must be a student in the College of Education who is a veteran from the United States Armed Forces. Consideration will be given to financial need not covered under the GI Bill, additional expenses incurred through research projects or internships, recognition of exceptional academic achievements, or service to the University Community. Apply Dilling-McDaniel Scholarship for Veterans and Active Duty Service Members Award covers the cost of four undergraduate Emergency Management and Homeland Security courses, or five graduate EMHS courses up to $1,500. Apply Colonel James R. Douglass Endowment Recipient must be a student in the College of Business. Preference will be given to current or former military personnel. Apply Emeritus Society Student Veteran Academic Excellence Scholarship $1,000 award to the FSU undergraduate and graduate student-veteran with the highest semester GPA (awarded after each Fall and Spring semester). Recipients must be or have been full-time students, and ties are broken by financial need. Charles T. Haworth Graduate Scholarship for Veterans $5,000 total ($2,500 for Fall and Spring semesters) for veterans accepted into a master's program in the FSU College of Social Sciences and Public Policy. Apply Mark and Nan Casper Hillis Endowed Fund for Student Veterans Provides much needed support for academically at-risk student veterans and may also be made available to student veterans at the discretion of the Student Veterans Center director. For further information, contact the director of the Student Veterans Center. Russell H. and Dorothy P. Johnsen Endowment for Fellowships in Chemistry and Biochemistry Recipient must be a student in the College of Arts and Sciences within the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. Preference will be given to a student studying physical chemistry and/or a veteran or descendant of a veteran of the Armed Forces of the United States. Apply Mathis Endowed Fund Recipient must be a student who demonstrates financial need. First preference will be given to a student from Taylor County, FL. Second preference will be given to a student who is the child of military personnel and/or a law enforcement officer who died in the line of duty. Third preference will be given to a student who is the child of an active duty military personnel or a law enforcement officer. Apply Serket Racing College of Nursing Veteran Scholarship Recipient must be a student in the College of Nursing who served, is serving, or will serve in the military after graduation. Apply Master Sergeant Floyd Sheffield Scholarship Recipient must be a student enrolled in Military Science (MSL) courses who is contracted with Florida State University United States Army ROTC. Preference will be given to a student who is the child or dependent of an active or retired military family member or one who has transferred to Florida State University from one of the following schools in order of priority: 1. Gulf Coast State College; 2. Tallahassee Community College; 3. Any out-of-state junior college such that the parent is an active duty military Florida resident and is attending said out-of-state program due to the parent's current duty obligations or assignments. Apply Justin Sisson Outstanding Veteran Award Recipient must be a deserving military veteran currently enrolled at Florida State University with a minimum 3.0 GPA or better regardless of major. The applicant should embody all of the characteristics of leadership, honor and bravery, which warrant this recognition. Guy M. & Delores Spearman Scholarship Recipient must be an active-duty military student or student veteran, pursuing a bachelor's or master's degree in Social Work at FSU and planning to be enrolled beyond the Spring 2019 semester. Preference will be given to a student from Brevard County, Florida. Apply Spearman Graduate Veterans Scholarship Up to $3,000 for graduate research by an MSW or Ph.D. student in the FSU College of Social Work who has served or will be serving in the military after graduation. Apply Spearman Social Work Veteran Field Scholarship Approximately $1,000 annually to two MSW students in the FSU College of Social Work who are in their full-time field-placement course, and have served or will be serving in the military after graduation. Apply Student Veterans Emergency Fund Up to $1,000 for verifiable financial emergencies facing FSU student veterans enrolled full-time and in good academic standing. Contact the director of the Student Veterans Center to apply. Joshua Tyler, MD Scholarship for Excellence in Leadership and Service One $1,000 scholarship per year to a student who is a military veteran, child of active military, a member of the ROTC or a Health Professions Scholarship recipient, with a minimum 3.2 GPA. Preference will go to a student who is a veteran and student leader or a student with a dedication to service. All applicants must include a brief description (200-500 words) of their student-leadership activities or dedication to service. Apply Doyle E. and Janet T. Young Endowed Memorial Scholarship Recipient must be a full-time student in the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice with a minimum 3.0 GPA who is former military, a military dependent or a federal law enforcement dependent. Apply title-inside title-centered 2 Back to Top Student Veterans Center A4300 University Center 282 Champions Way Mailing Address: PO Box 3062431 Tallahassee, FL 32306-2431 Phone: 850-644-9562 Fax: 850-645-9868 E-mail: veteran@admin.fsu.edu © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media