Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Academic Success Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Overview Contact Us Staff About Lt. Gen. Jones VA Benefits Select to follow link Using VA Benefits GI Bill® Comparison Tool Parent School Letter Request Enrollment Verification Letters (ID cards/TRICARE/ChampVA) Delegate Access Tuition Assistance Scholarships and Aid Select to follow link Scholarships Scholarship Receipients Emergency Aid Student Services Select to follow link Student Services Activation/Mobilization Enrollment Verification Letters (ID cards/TRICARE/ChampVA) Information by Military Affiliation Select to follow link Veterans Active Duty Guard/Reserves Military Spouses Military Dependents ROTC Faculty/Staff Resources Get Involved Select to follow link KU Student Veterans of America Veterans Alumni Network Military and Veteran Honor Cords FAQs Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Academic Success Lt. Gen. William K. Jones Military-Affiliated Student Center Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Serving KU's Military-Affiliated Community Current Hours & Center Amenities We are your centralized resource and community as you move to, through and beyond KU. For in-person visits, video chats or phone calls, please see our center hours If we are not immediately available to help, please fill out our contact form Visit protect.ku.edu for the most recent KU information and policies regarding COVID-19. Quick Links Apply for VA Work-Study (part-time student employment) Steps to using GI Bill® In-state residency process Stay informed! Subscribe to our Email Newsletter Information by Military Affiliation Veterans Select to follow link Active Duty Select to follow link National Guard and Reserves Select to follow link Military Spouses Select to follow link Military Dependents Select to follow link Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) Select to follow link Learn More About Our Military-Affiliated Student Population Make a Gift Contribution The following resources are available to make the transition to civilian and college life as smooth as possible for our country's honored veterans and their family members. Your gift to support them will help KU continue to offer the best experience possible for those who served our country. Military-Affiliated Student Center Military-Affiliated Student Center Warhawk Family of Scholarships Warhawk Family of Scholarships Military-Affiliated Student Emergency Fund Military-Affiliated Student Emergency Fund ‘‘GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government Web site." Summerfield Hall, Room 345 1300 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 27, 41, 42 masc@ku.edu 785-864-2458 facebook twitter Academic Success Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.