Skip to Content Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Open Close primary navigation Search Search Best Place For VetsExpand Collapse section Chancellors’ Enduring Commitment Historic Overview: WWI-Present National Veterans Resource CenterExpand Collapse section About Why SU? Drone Timelapse Donate NVRC Virtual Tour Admissions Featured SU Military Alumni Wall of Service StudentsExpand Collapse section Student Resources Prospective Students Advising Housing and Childcare Education BenefitsExpand Collapse section Office of Veteran Success VA Benefits Continuing & Returning Students Post-9/11 GI Bill® Statement of Benefits Yellow Ribbon Program VA Educational Programs Breakdown Military Tuition Assistance ConnectExpand Collapse section Recent News Subscribe to our Newsletter Update Your Contact Info Veteran Career Services About UsExpand Collapse section Advisory Board Members Vice Chancellor OVMA Staff Office of Veteran Success Staff Army ROTCExpand Collapse section About Army ROTC ROTC EnrollmentExpand Collapse section Additional Learning Opportunities Schedule a Visit ScholarshipExpand Collapse section Army ROTC Application Faculty & Staff Contact Army ROTC Air Force ROTCExpand Collapse section About Det 535Expand Collapse section Cadre Commander’s Welcome Program OverviewExpand Collapse section How to Join Scholarship Leadership Training Officer Careers Program Requirements & Standards FAQ – Prospective Cadets FAQ – Parents Cadet LifeExpand Collapse section Detachment Resources Silver Wings Arnold Air Society The Blue Stars National Society of Pershing Rifles Why Syracuse UniversityExpand Collapse section Crosstown Schools Map and Directions About Syracuse Benefits For Cadets Alumni Contact AFROTC Videos Contact Us Support UsExpand Collapse section Veteran Legacy Fund Impact Targeted Support ImpactExpand Collapse section Annual Reports Fast Facts Search Search Home Military-Connected Programs Military-Connected Programs Program Description Defense Comptroller Program Defense Comptroller Program: Since 1952, Syracuse University has been educating and training the Department of Defense’s financial managers at the Martin J. Whitman School of Management. Students study for 14-months and receive an MBA and an EMPA from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Military Visual Journalism Program Military Visual Journalism Program: The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications has been the home to two Department of Defense-sponsored programs since 1963 that teach active-duty service members photojournalism and broadcast journalism. The Military Photojournalism (MPJ) and Military Motion Media (MMM) programs are 10-months in duration and teach students to become better storytellers. National Security Studies Program National Security Studies Program: Since 1996, the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is home of the National Security Studies (NSS) program that offers executive education courses for senior civilian and military leaders who are responsible for the national security interests in their respective organizations. Veterans Program for Politics and Civic Engagement The VPPCE prepares veterans and military-connected individuals with the skills, knowledge, and tools to launch a successful and meaningful career in politics. Veterans with first-hand experience running for office, experts in the field, and esteemed faculty from the Maxwell School — the nation’s #1-ranked graduate school in public affairs, deliver instruction throughout our programs. Air Force ROTC AFROTC is a program designed to train cadets to be commissioned officers in the United States Air Force. Here at SU, we pride ourselves on having a meticulously designed training environment which gives meaning to the Air Force’s core values, fosters good camaraderie among cadets, and produces only the finest Air Force officers. Army ROTC Army ROTC offers a commission as a second lieutenant in either the active Army or Reserve Forces in a variety of career fields including Combat Arms (Aviation, Armor, Artillery, Infantry, or Engineers), Combat Support, and Combat Service Support branches. There are two-, three-, and four-year scholarship programs available. Some cadets choose to join the National Guard or the Army Reserve while in Army ROTC, thus qualifying them for the Montgomery GI Bill benefits, in-state tuition (VANG) and other exciting benefits. COL College of Law Dineen Hall Nearly Finished Interior & Exterior Institute for Security Policy and Law Syracuse University Institute for Security Policy and Law (SPL) is a multidisciplinary, university-based center for the study of national and international security. The Institute offers certificates of advanced study, conducts incisive research on security topics, and provides timely policy analysis. Undergraduate Trauma Research Training Program The Undergraduate Trauma Research Training is a one-year program for undergraduates is designed to improve access to research experiences for groups typically underrepresented in research (namely, veterans) through the creation of a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) site. It involves coursework, mentored student-faculty interactions, and the development of a research project. Learn more | Download the UTRT Flyer U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence In 2009, the School of Information Studies at Syracuse University (iSchool) and the U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence (CoE) (Formerly Signal Center School of Information Technology – SIT) at Fort Gordon formally established an agreement to enable qualified United States Army Cyber/Signal Center graduates to complete master’s degrees at the School of Information Studies at Syracuse University. Veterans Legal Clinic The Veterans Legal Clinic (VLC) assists veterans with claims before the Department of Veterans Affairs and discharge upgrades. Other clinical programs at the College of Law have dedicated priority slots to assist veterans in the areas of family law, elder law, community development, consumer law, tax law, criminal law, disability rights, and bankruptcy. The Institute for Veterans and Military Families The IVMF is higher education’s first interdisciplinary academic institute, singularly focused on advancing the lives of the nation’s military veterans and their families. National Veterans Resource Center | Daniel & Gayle D’Aniello Building | 101 Waverly Ave, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy