Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Giving Home All Giving Opportunities Hospital Giving Alumni and Friends Endowed Scholarship Grateful Client Giving Program Pet Memorial Giving Program Alumni Class Projects Grateful Client Giving Program The College of Veterinary Medicine Grateful Client Giving Program is a donor recognition program that is designed to actively engage clients of the Oklahoma State University Veterinary Medical Hospital. Without the support of generous clients, you and your animal would not be able to receive the high quality, compassionate care that the Veterinary Medical Hospital provides. The goal of the Grateful Client Program is to continue to raise support for the CVM and to recognize donors who have dedicated their giving to the hospital. When clients give through the Grateful Client Program, they honor those who have touched their lives, while supporting outstanding patient care at the OSU Veterinary Medical Hospital. Give Now Meet Linda, a Grateful Client Linda Wheeler came to tears the first time she saw Romano. The 6-month-old kitten, a stray who popped up in the yard of the Tulsa woman’s sister, bore a striking resemblance to a cat Wheeler had recently lost. The only difference was Romano’s perfect heart on his nose. Was it a sign? After all, it turned out that his heart had a hole in it, which was leading to congestive heart failure. But Oklahoma State University’s Veterinary Medical Hospital came to his rescue with a first-of-its-type-in-Oklahoma procedure. Dr. Ryan Baumwart, veterinary cardiologist, and Dr. Danielle Dugat, small animal surgeon, of OSU’s Veterinary Medical Hospital, collaborated on the surgical procedure. “The procedure hadn’t been done in Oklahoma,” Wheeler says. “It turned into a little bit of a guessing game,” Baumwart says. We had to give Romano some drugs to keep the pressures up to avoid kidney damage and at the same time try to adjust the pressures as Dr. Dugat placed the band around the artery.” “Everything went the way it was supposed to because we all had our plan and everybody stuck to the plan,” Dugat says. “That incision looks wonderful. You guys did great,” Wheeler says. “Thank you so much. Thank you so much.” The procedure performed on Romano will allow him to live a longer, healthier life. The only alternative would be to have (very rare) open-heart surgery to correct the hole in his heart. “To see such joy in an owner’s eyes when the procedure you perform is successful makes this a fulfilling profession,” says Dugat. “I could not have had the confidence I needed in performing this procedure for the first time if it was not for an owner who was willing to hand over the life of her baby into my hands. More so, developing a plan before surgery and understanding every individual’s important role to the success of the surgery made the execution seamless.” For questions about giving, contact Ashley Hesser, director of development at the OSU Foundation at 405-385-0715 or ahesser@osugiving.com. Give Now Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©