Skip to primary navigation Skip to main content Department of Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology Texas A&M University Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences VTPP Home About Us Welcome Faculty Staff Diversity & Inclusion Courses Undergraduate Graduate Professional Resources DeBakey Staff Leadership Program Research VTPP Research Resources Winnie Carter Wildlife Center Open Positions Give to VTPP Department of Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology We shape the future of research and education in human and veterinary medicine. VTPP is fully committed to a climate where all faculty, students, staff, and administrators feel that they are treated respectfully, and fully accepted and valued for who they are. Our words matter. Please continue to be mindful of them. Faculty Information Looking for information on a faculty member, find it here. Course Information Looking for information on a course, find it here. Newsletter Check out our latest issue of VTPP Success. Reproductive Sciences Toxicology Regenerative Medicine and the Biology of Regeneration Cardiovascular Physiology Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Latest from the Department Spotlight Continuing efforts to “spotlight” VTPP staff, students and faculty ensuring to introduce new VTPP family members and serve to keep us reacquainted. … Read more about Spotlight In the Community Diversity, equity, and inclusion is an important part of our plan for success in VTPP and we continue to strive for increased DEI in all aspects of … Read more about In the Community Across Texas A&M University Identifying and highlighting the impact of VTPP across campus. I hope it serves as an accessible archive to track the extent to which our faculty, … Read more about Across Texas A&M University Research Forecast Identifying upcoming seminars, workshops, funding announcements, events, and conferences of interest to VTPP. I hope it serves as an accessible … Read more about Research Forecast Education Chronicles VTPP Education Chronicles is an opportunity to share specific ideas and information regarding higher education. VTPP continued excellence in education … Read more about Education Chronicles Copyright © 2022 Texas A&M University Department of Physiology and Pharmacology Faculty Login