Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Alumni Home Giving Career Services Alumni and Friends Endowed Scholarship The Friday Bit Class Representatives and Reunions Class Projects Conferences and Events Alumni Awards Alumni Society Featured Alumni Walk of Honor CVHS Merchandise Update Alumni Information Join the Alumni Association Featured Alumni On this page you will find will stories about the things our esteemed and talented alumni are involved in and highlights of those that are making an impact on veterinary medicine in any capacity. If you are or know an alumni member doing something interesting, we invite you to submit the story for consideration. We look forward to hearing many incredible stories! Submitting a story is now easier than ever with two options: Submit your story on the new online form. Contact our Alumni Affairs Specialist Sharon Worrell at sworrel@okstate.edu or (405) 744-5630. 2022 Dr. Robert "Bob" Williams ('53) receives Elk County Pioneer Award 2021 Dr. Ronald Tyler, Jr. ('04) receives Texas Academy of Family Physicians Public Health Award Dee Griffin ('75) receives Amstutz Williams Award Jim Shearer ('69), retires at 77 2020 Margaret King, PhD, DVM, Inducted into Marquis Who's Who of American Women AKC Canine Health Foundation Welcomes Calvin B. Carpenter, DVM, MBA, DACLAM (Class of '86), as Executive Director Jack Civic ('83) was one of 45 volunteers stationed on the nearly 1,000-mile course of the Iditarod Race. Faces of Iditarod: Tracy Patton ('97) Dr. John Otto's ('90) book about inmate dog training program turns into stage production. 2019 Dr. Joel Wilson ('79) gives back to his community through an internship. Dr. Allison Zuckermandel ('07) named one of the Business Time's Top 20 under 40. Dr. Tracy Patton ('97) is heading to the Iditarod Sled Dog Race. Dr. James Carpenter ('74, left) accepts the Oxbow Award from Dr. Micah Kohles, Oxbow’s vice president of Technical Services and Research. Dr. Eddie Taylor ('85) named 2019 PRCA/Zoetis Vet of the Year. Dr. Mike Schoonover (’00) is leading research on equine limb wound care. Dr. Richard Halvorson (1978) was recognized for his 30 years of service as the veterinarian-on-call at the World Dairy Expo. Dr. Jeff Owens (2004) was recognized as Best Veterinarian in the Tulsa World's 2019 "Best in the World" competition. His practice, Elm Creek Veterinary Hospital, has served the community since 2010. Dr. Tina Neel (1979) was recognized along with her full-service veterinary practice in Oklahoma City, by The Oklahoman news source. Both print and online readers from across the state voted Neel Veterinary Hospital as the Readers' Choice Best Veterinary Hospital of 2019 in Oklahoma. Dr. Rod Hall receives the Oklahoma Cattlemen's Association Distinguished Service Award. Dr. Jim Baldwin, AERC Hall of Fame Inductee, was a guest on the Horses in the Morning radio show. Dr. Brian Berridge Leads the US National Toxicology Program to Embrace Innovative Technologies. 2018 Dr. Bill Johnson Named Distinguished Alumnus of Veterinary Center Dr. Reynolds Cowles Named Distinguished Alumnus Dr. Charles Qualls Named Distinguished Alumnus Meredyth Jones, DVM, MS, DACVIM, was named the 2018 Western Veterinary Conference Food Animal Continuing Educator of the Year. Dr. Jones is in the Class of 2002. Dr. Paige Mackey ('13) achieved the status of Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine in Small Animal Internal Medicine. Pictured left to right are: Drs. Allison Wilson, Rebecca Tims ('14), Paige Mackey ('13), and Lana Rothenburg ('12). Dr. John Otto speaks at the opening of a new dog training facility Dr. Christopher Earle's ('95) Clinic Celebrates 20th anniversary Dr. Martin Furr ('86), one of our top equine researchers, participated in this update on EPM in horses. Dr. Kay Helms, 2018 Oklahoma Veterinarian of the Year Dr. Kay Helms (’72) is recognized for her endless contributions to veterinary medicine Dr. Isaiah (Josh) Fidler (’63) is recognized for his leadership and extraordinary achievements in cancer research Cushing vet, author finalist for American Humane Hero Veterinarian Award Dr. Rebekah Hartfield Recognized as a Significant Woman in Oklahoma Agriculture 2017 Brian Berridge takes the helm at the National Toxicology Program Pay it Forward - Dr. Kaitlyn Coyes Dr. Kay Helms named Significant Woman in Oklahoma Agriculture (PDF) AAFP president wants culture change toward cats DCHS Hall of Fame Inducts Robert Cole, DVM Jacobs Recognized for Outstanding Achievements in Food Safety Dr. Rebekah Hartfield: Veterinarian and Author Veterinarians for large animals lacking in Oklahoma - Dr. Rebekah Hartfield Former veterinary military surgeon shares his experiences - Dr. Jim Giles Dr. Stefanie Campbell becomes 'disease detective' for CDC Cattle Feeders Hall of Fame Honors Dr. Dee Griffin Iowa Ag Department strengthens disease management team (Judith LaBounty) Bailey Named Oklahoma State University Distinguished Alumna See You at the Races - Dr. Bob Story McGill Named Oklahoma State University Distinguished Alumnus Dr. Tim Woody Named OSU Distinguished Alumnus Beef Veterinarian Receives AgriLabs Award - Dr. Tripp Holt Dr. Lee Denney - 2017 Oklahoma Veterinarian of the Year Merck, AABP honor Dr. Dee Griffin as Mentor of the Year 50 Years as Dr. Cowles Investing in the Future - Dr. Danielle Dugat Hospital Director Bids Goodbye - Dr. Mark Neer The DuBois Connection Coping with the Unexpected 2017 McElroy Award Winner - Elizabeth Forbes Hartville Pet Insurance GroupTM Names Dr. Wendy Hauser AVP of Veterinary Relations (PDF) Rudd Presents at NW Classen Career Day Rudd Places First at 3MT Competition Mild Winter Weather Could Cause Pet Problems (Kassie Newton) Improving Your Lifespan: Dr. Timothy Snider Krugler Named Distinguished Veterinarian of the Year 2016 Confer earns Leave the Ladder Down Award 50 Years of Dr. Lee Simmons Father of Reform: Dr. Dee Griffin Angel Jordan named PATH Veterinarian of the Year Dr. Panciera Recognized by Cattle Production Veterinarian Hall of Fame Folsom Receives Prestigious Continuing Ed Award from AgriLabs Loafmann Named Distinguished Alumnus Holmes Named Distinguished Alumnus Fulton Selected for Higher Ed Hall of Fame Staubus Helping Louisiana’s Animals The Pacemaker Posse Duffy Named Distinguished Alumnus Andy Baker Named 2016 TVMA Medical Specialty Practitioner of the Year Howell Named Western Veterinary Conference President Living the Dream and Helping Eagles Fly Herrin Wins National Award Get Involved, Stay Involved Oklahoma’s 2016 Veterinarian of the Year All in the Family Cunningham Earns Dean McElroy Award Class of 1966 Celebrates 50 Years Dual Degree Pioneers Carrying On a Family Legacy Commitment to Excellence Making a Difference Rudd Places 2nd in 3MT Confer Inducted into Hall of Fame ASVCP Honors Dynamic Duo The Overpopulation Problem Behind the Scenes with Bullet LTC Duffy on Zika Virus Recognizing a Veterinarian and a Need Alumna becomes permit holder in the Women’s Professional Rodeo Association Saving Lola The Overpopulation Problem 2015 DeMars named Clinical Associate Professor Fulton Earns Outstanding Service Award Dugat Among “40 Under 40: Professors Who Inspire Dr. Hildabrand volunteers to help sterilize white-tailed deer, control population Ekstrom to be Honoroed Dr. Anothny Confer-Hall of Fame Inductee Heise to be Honored Double Celebration for Dr. Rocconi Keller Frey to be Honored Longtime Veterinary Educator Retires Fund set up in honor of Dr. Kristie Plunkett - Barred Owl Set Free On the Job with Dr. Breshears On the Job with Dr. Ritchey Class of 1965 50th Reunion - Drs. John Kirkpatrick and Paul Frith Dr. Brian Herrin - 3 Minute Thesus Winner, 2015 On the Job with Dr. Baumwart Dr. John Otto - Dogs of Lexington: The Oklahoma Prison Dog Program Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©