Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Student Services DVM Program About DVM Program Apply Now Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Transfer Students High School Prep Early Admission Program FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program CBSC Overview Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Faculty Dual Degree Programs Graduate Student Association PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Veterinary Careers FAQs Commencement Info PAVE Program The Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater, Oklahoma offers a one-year clinical program for PAVE students. The program will help to increase your veterinary knowledge and improve your technical and clinical skills by requiring specific goals and outcomes for each rotation. In addition, students will improve their communication skills relating to veterinary medical terminology and develop client communication skills. Most importantly, students will become familiar with veterinary profession in North America. More Information on The Program for the Assessment of Veterinary Education Equivalence (PAVE®). Apply Now PAVE Program Information [+] Expand All Requirements Must be a permanent resident or a United States citizen or possess the appropriate Visa (F1 student Visa) to remain in the United States. Must have graduated from a recognized school of veterinary medicine within the past 10 years and have passed the PAVE Qualifying Skills Exam. View the directory of recognized AVMA schools Applicant must provide a letter from AAVSB (American Association of Veterinary State Boards). Send letter via email directly to vcsdept@okstate.edu. Applicants must be fluent in both written and spoken English. TOEFL – Required scores Reading 22 Listening 22 Speaking 26 Writing 24 The applicant must provide copies (no original documents) of official documentation (accompanied by English translation when in language other than English) of the following A notarized copy of the transcript and the veterinary diploma from the university granting the veterinary degree in English translation if necessary. Three (3) letters of recommendation from veterinarians familiar with applicant’s veterinary knowledge and skills preferably from individuals who can evaluate the applicant’s clinical abilities through either work experience or volunteering of 20 hours or more per week under the supervision of North American educated veterinarians for one year or more. Recommendation letters should be mailed with other requested documents. Criteria for selection of applicants is based upon applicant’s exam scores to include, TOEFL, NAVLE (if completed), transcript grades, work/volunteer experience, and letters of reference. A personal phone interview may be requested. Applicants who do not meet the above requirements will not be considered and need not apply How to Apply Submit the online PAVE Program Application. Send non-refundable application fee of $75 payable by check or money order to OSU Veterinary Clinical Sciences via mail. Send additional documents via mail along with application fee. Additional Documents to Submit: Letter of intent (hand written) Curriculum Vitae Copy of English exam scores: TOEFL, TSE, TWE Copy of current Visa/passport Copy of US social security card (if applicable) A letter from PAVE verifying enrollment and status. Copy of BCSE and NAVLE if completed Notarized copy of veterinary diploma in English translation Notarized copy of transcript of grades from veterinary school in English translation and Explanation of point grading system. Three letters of recommendation from veterinarians you have worked with through either work or volunteer experience or instructors at your DVM school. Send additional documents and application fee to: Lucinda Kershaw Academic Center Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences OSU College of Veterinary Medicine 2115 W Farm Road Stillwater, OK 74078-2041 USA Application Timeline Start Date Notification of Acceptance Mid-January (Rotation 2) July 15 Mid-May (Rotation 10) November 15 Mid-September (Rotation 18) March 15 Acceptance Process Applicants are notified via email of their acceptance into the program by receipt of the letter of offer with a deadline to submit a *non-refundable $500 deposit fee payable by check or money order to OSU Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences and a letter of acceptance. Payment of the deposit fee is required by the due date provided in the letter of offer to the applicant. The deposit fee is applied toward tuition. In addition to the required deposit fee, if applicant is not a US citizen or permanent resident, applicant will need to obtain the F1 Visa by completing the I-20 document and provide proof of financial support during their program at OSU. This information must be returned with the deposit fee and the applicant’s letter of acceptance. Once the deposit fee and I-20 documents are received, a request will be made to OSU Immigration Services to process the I-20. Applicants are responsible for all visa expenses. Applicants completing the 48-week program are eligible for the OPT Visa which allows the applicant to work for one year on a student visa toward getting practical training to complement their education. Students accepted into the Program are not enrolled through the Registrar’s Office like a traditional OSU student, but are enrolled via contract between the student and the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences. The program functions under the direction of the Veterinary Clinical Sciences Department Head. *Deposit fee payment can be made by check or money order payable to OSU VCS Department, or you may submit your deposit fee through Western Union. Visit the OSU Bursar website and scroll to the section for International Payments and Domestic Wire Payments. For the ID information, enter 999999999. Additional Required Information (once accepted) Once accepted into the program and before starting the program receipt of the following information is required. Documentation of rabies vaccinations or rabies titer within the past two years. Verification of immunizations: Complete the immunization form and send to vcsdept@okstate.edu. Students holding an F1 Visa are required to obtain the student health insurance offered through OSU during their clinical year program. Students will be required to obtain their own professional liability insurance through the AVMA before beginning their externships. Tuition Fees Current tuition for the PAVE Program is $41,000 for 48 weeks. Effective January 2021, the tuition fee will increase to $41,000. At the beginning of the official start date, students will enter in a contract with the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences. PAVE students will be billed in two half payments, the first payment will be billed on the first day of the official program start date and the second payment will be billed beginning the 25th week of the program. Payment will be due in full with no interest within 30 days of the time of billing. Students should plan for living expenses of approximately $20,000 in addition to tuition fees. If a student withdraws or is dismissed before completing three rotations, a refund will be processed. The cost of completed rotations and the $500 non-refundable deposit fee will not be included in the refund. No refund will be given after completing three rotations. Supplies Supplies laptop 5½” bandage scissors 7½” bandage scissors 5½” Kelly forceps 5½” suture scissors Penlight Veterinary pleximeter Stethoscope Scrubs (any plain color, no embroidery) Gray polo shirts (no name on shirt) and long white lab coat, (length of lab coat is midway between hips and knees). Students can purchase locally upon arrival in Stillwater. Pave Program Information The current fourth year PAVE program is 52 weeks, which includes two weeks of clinic orientation and two weeks of vacation. The actual program is 48 weeks. Each rotation is two weeks in length. PAVE students can choose between two different track schedules, small animal or mixed animal. Both tracks require completion of the following core rotations: Anesthesia, Community Practice, Diagnostics, Equine Medicine, Food Animal Medicine, Intensive Care Unit, Radiology, Small Animal Internal Medicine, Shelter Surgery, Externships I-III. Each track has different required emphasis and elective choices to include Ophthalmology, Equine Surgery, LA Theriogenology, Zoological Medicine, and up to six weeks of additional externships. PAVE students are required to accept and perform the same duties as those required of a senior DVM student at Oklahoma State University. This includes after hours and weekend duties. Student’s rotation schedule will be based upon space availability in clinic rotations. Students are graded according to the same standards as OSU students and must earn a “C” grade or better to successfully complete a rotation. A student must repeat a rotation in which they received a “D” or “F” grade. Students receiving a failing grade in the same rotation twice may result in immediate dismissal which is at the discretion of the Department Head. Small Animal/Mixed Animal Track Schedules Externship Information PAVE student are required to complete six weeks of externships at different locations chosen by the student. Students may choose an additional six weeks of externships as elective choices for a total of 12 weeks. Under certain circumstances, students may be limited to the number of weeks of externships at the discretion of the Department Head. Externships are scheduled at the end of the students program. Externships can be anywhere as long as students are under the direct supervision of a licensed DVM or equivalent and must be pre-approved. Approval process will be explained during student’s orientation. Housing For information on housing, use the following resources: View the Housing Guide for off-campus housing On-campus housing Google “Stillwater Oklahoma housing” PAVE Certificate A framed certificate from OSU will be awarded to each PAVE student upon successful completion of the program. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©