Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Student Services DVM Program About DVM Program Apply Now Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Transfer Students High School Prep Early Admission Program FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program CBSC Overview Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Faculty Dual Degree Programs Graduate Student Association PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Veterinary Careers FAQs Commencement Info Eligibility Qualification Details: Applicants must be within two semesters of completing all pre-veterinary course requirements (by June 1 following application) and must have a grade point average in the required courses of at least 2.80. A grade lower than "C" in a required course is unacceptable and must be repeated. A C- is considered below a C. If the applicant retakes a course, the hours and grade points of the repeated course will be averaged to those of the original course in calculating the required course GPA. All courses taken for the purpose of substitution must be completed by the end the fall term in which application is made. Math and science based courses must have been completed within eight years of the fall semester in which application is made. To remove old coursework from your cumulative GPA, submit in writing a formal request to dvm@okstate.edu Upper level science courses must be taken at a four-year institution to be valid. This includes Animal Nutrition, Biochemistry, Genetics, and Organic Chemistry I & II. An applicant is required to take the general Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Test results must be received by VMCAS by September 15. Scores are acceptable only if the tests were taken within four academic years prior to application. It takes several weeks for VMCAS to receive score reports, therefore it is recommended to take the test no later than September 1. To register for the GRE online, visit the GRE website. Applicants must use Institution code 6558 for score reports (do not use the code for Oklahoma State University). To register for the CASPer Test, you must visit the CASPer website. Tests will be available to register in May. If an applicant does not take the test by September 29, their application will not be eligible. We do not require Snapshot. NOTICE TO ALL DVM APPLICANTS: The OSU-CVM will not, under any circumstance, process an application if it has not been verified through VMCAS. We adhere to all VMCAS deadlines. Items to Remember and Deadlines All transcripts must be sent to VMCAS by September 15. The Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine will not accept transcripts for the September 15 deadline. The VMCAS Application is due by September 15. All aspects of the application are processed through VMCAS, which includes the VMCAS application, VMCAS application fee, evaluations, transcripts and GRE test scores. Visit the Application page to access the OSU CVM Application Processing Fee. Be sure to complete it by the September 15 deadline. This fee is non-refundable. If you feel you may have paid twice or question if the payment was successful, contact the CVM Student Services Office at 405-744-6961. Make sure to take the GRE prior to September 1 so scores arrive to the VMCAS by the September 15 deadline. Take the CASPer Test no later than September 29. Fall transcripts are due to CVM by January 15. Make sure to complete all prerequisite courses by June 1. Planned courses can be indicated in the VMCAS application so specify (as best as you can) which semesters they are planned for. Notice: Due to the coronavirus pandemic, many institutions are allowing their students the opportunity to take coursework in a Pass/No Pass format. The OSU-CVM has decided to accept courses taken in the Pass/No Pass format for the Spring of 2020 semester. This includes prerequisite coursework if completed with a grade of “Pass.” Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©