Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Student Services DVM Program About DVM Program Apply Now Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Transfer Students High School Prep Early Admission Program FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program CBSC Overview Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Faculty Dual Degree Programs Graduate Student Association PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Veterinary Careers FAQs Commencement Info Frequently Asked Questions Application | Transcript| Graduate Record Exam (GRE) |CASPer Test | Coursework | In State vs. Out-of-State | General Notice: Due to the coronavirus pandemic, many institutions are allowing their students the opportunity to take coursework in a Pass/No Pass format. The OSU-CVM has decided to accept courses taken in the Pass/No Pass format for the Spring of 2020 semester. This includes prerequisite coursework if completed with a grade of “Pass.” Application Questions [+] Expand All Where can I apply? Apply through the Veterinary Medical College Application Service. When is the deadline to submit an application? The VMCAS application deadline is typically September 15, unless that date falls on a weekend, then deadline will be the following Monday. For more information, see the VMCAS website. Is there a minimum GPA requirement for applications to be considered? Eligible applicants must have a minimum prerequisite GPA of 2.8 Do all of the requirements have to be completed before I submit my application? No. While we prefer that applicants have the majority of all required coursework completed at the time of application, pending coursework may be completed throughout the application process. However, all required coursework must be completed prior to June 1 of the year of matriculation, if admitted. (Year of matriculation is the year you enter the DVM program.) Please remember all coursework re-taken to replace a grade less than C must be done by the fall semester of application. Am I required to get a letter of reference from an advisor, an employer, and a veterinarian? We require three letters of reference, one of which must be from a veterinarian with whom you have worked and who can evaluate your potential as a veterinarian. The other categories of references are only suggestions for the remaining two letters. Am I required to have a Bachelor’s Degree in order to apply? No. As long as you can complete all required pre-veterinary courses by June 1, you may apply without a Bachelor’s Degree. Where do I mail the letters of recommendation (ELOR)? You do not mail the letters. Letters of recommendation must be submitted electronically through VMCAS. When are admissions decisions made? View the admissions timeline diagram showing application deadlines and when decisions are made. What should I do if I can’t confirm my processing fee payment was successful? Contact the CVM Student Services at 405-744-6961. It is after the VMCAS deadline and there’s an issue with my application. What should I do? Contact the Student Services Office, 405-744-6961. Although we will try to work with you to the best of our capabilities, please note that the OSU-CVM cannot process an application if it has not been through the verification process with VMCAS first. Transcript Questions [+] Expand All When do I send transcripts? Initial transcripts are due to VMCAS by September 15. If you are enrolled in fall courses, those transcripts are due to the CVM by January 15. If you are enrolled in spring courses and selected for the incoming class, those transcripts will be due to the CVM by June 1. Where should I mail my transcripts? Initial transcripts should be sent to VMCAS. Fall and spring transcripts should mailed to CVM Student Services at 110 McElroy Hall, Stillwater, OK 74078 or emailed to dvm@okstate.edu. Do I send a transcript from every college I have ever attended? Yes. VMCAS must have an official transcript from every college or university you have attended. What if the transcripts from my current school contain the grades from my previous schools? Even if grades from one college or university are reported on a later transcript, VMCAS still requires an official transcript from every university attended. What if I attended Oklahoma State University? Do you still need my official transcripts sent? We are not able to print official transcripts from the university. You will need to request an official transcript sent from the OSU Registrar. Graduate Record Exam (GRE) Questions [+] Expand All What is the deadline for taking the GRE? September 15 is the deadline for all GREs to be received by VMCAS. It typically takes GRE/ETS several weeks after the test is taken to successfully send the results so we highly encourage you to take the GRE no later than September 1 to meet this deadline. Can I take the VCAT or MCAT instead of the GRE? No. We only accept the General GRE. Do you require the GRE Biology Subject test? No. Can I re-take the GRE multiple times to improve my score? Yes. You can take the General GRE once a month as many times as you would like. The highest set of scores on a particular test date will be used when the GRE has been taken more than once. How long are GRE scores good for? Four years. What is the institution code for OSU-CVM? The GRE institution code for OSU-CVM is 6558. CASPer Test [+] Expand All What is the CASPer Test? CASPer is a form of situational judgement test. Situational judgement tests (SJTs) are a type of psychological test which presents the test-taker with realistic, hypothetical scenarios and may ask the individual what they would do in the dilemma and why they would do it. Situational judgement tests tend to determine behavioral tendencies, assessing how an individual will behave in a certain situation, and knowledge instruction, which evaluates the effectiveness of possible responses. What is the format of the CASPer Test? Each section contains a video-based or word-based scenario and three open-ended questions. Test takers have five minutes to type their responses to all three questions. CASPer progresses from one section to the next automatically. It typically takes 60-90 minutes to complete with an optional 15-minute break halfway through. Where can I take the CASPer test? You can take the online CASPer test on a computer and at a location of your choice. Since the test requires your full concentration, it is strongly recommend that you take the test in a space that is free from distractions and noise How much does CASPer cost? The veterinary medicine test for CASPer is $25 plus $12 per school you choose to send test scores to. How many times can I take the CASPer test? You can only take the test once per admission cycle. Tests are not carried over from year to year so if you have to re-apply, you will need to take the test again the next cycle. When is the deadline to take the CASPer test? The last test date for the 2021 cycle is September 24. Applicants applying in the 2021 cycle who haven’t taken the test by September 24 will not be eligible to apply. Are there practice tests available? Yes! Visit CASPer Test Prep. Where can I find more information about CASPer? You can visit the CASPer website. There is a wonderful FAQ section that should answer most applicant questions. Live Chat is also available in the dialogue box to the bottom right of the screen on the main CASPer page. Coursework Questions [+] Expand All Do I have to take Animal Nutrition? My school does not offer it. Yes. You can take it through OSU Correspondence Education. Other schools offering Animal Nutrition via distance learning include Rutgers, Purdue, Kansas State, Oregon State and North Carolina State. What courses must be taken at a four-year institution? Animal Nutrition Biochemistry Animal Genetics Organic Chemistry 1 & Lab Organic Chemistry 2 & Lab Correspondence Education Website Can I use Advanced Placement (AP) credits to fulfill prerequisite courses? Credit earned through advanced standing is acceptable, although it is not used in the computation of the grade point average. Official credit earned from the AP exam must be reflected on your undergraduate transcripts. What if my total prerequisite credit hours don’t add up to 64? Credit hours may vary by institution. Example of acceptable discrepancies: Microbiology & Lab at OSU are worth 5 credit hours combined. At another institution Microbiology includes a lab and is worth 4 credit hours. Both are acceptable. Who can I ask if I am not sure if a course will satisfy the requirement? Contact the Student Services Office at (405) 744-6961 or dvm@okstate.edu. Which courses are required for admission to the college? View the courses required for admission on the Required Pre-Veterinary Courses page. What should my college major be? As long as you complete the prerequisite coursework, your major is not reviewed as a factor of admission. The most common majors are Animal Science, Biochemistry, Biology, Physiology & Zoology. Does it matter how long ago I took a required course? Yes. Math and science based courses have to be taken within eight years of the year of application. What courses other than the required ones can I take to prepare myself for veterinary school? Physiology, Anatomy, Immunology, Reproduction, Histology, and Parasitology. In-State vs Out-of-State Questions How can I become an Oklahoma resident prior to acceptance? Information regarding residency can be found on the Registrar's Residency Status page or by calling the Registrar at 405-744-6876. Can I change my non-resident status after I have been admitted into the OSU vet school? No. The only way to change residency after acceptance is to marry an already established Oklahoma resident after beginning the OSU DVM program. Do you interview non-resident applicants? No. Currently we only interview Oklahoma applicants. General Questions [+] Expand All What is the class size? We have a maximum of 106 seats available to first year students. The class is comprised of 58 Oklahoma residents and 48 non-residents. Is it possible to find out where I placed on the alternate list? No. This varies and is not an accurate reflection in determining chances of being admitted. Are my chances of getting into the OSU CVM DVM Program better if I attend OSU as an undergraduate student? No. Students may complete their pre-veterinary coursework at any accredited college or university. Where can I get information about veterinary master’s degree and doctoral programs? View information on master's degree and doctoral programs on the Graduate Program page. Is there such a thing as a legacy program at OSU CVM? No. The OSU Legacy program is not available for CVM students. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©