Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Continual Care Program Continual Care FAQ Contact Us Cohn Facility Home Cohn Pet Care Facility Pets are important family members. If something should happen to you and you are no longer able to care for your four-legged friends, Oklahoma State University’s Cohn Pet Care Facility may have the answer. The Cohn Pet Care Facility was built as a permanent home for animals whose owners planned in advance to ensure their beloved pet is cared for in the owner’s absence. An endowment paid upfront secures the funds necessary to provide shelter, food and veterinary medical care for the life of your pet. The Cohn Shelter is also equipped to serve as a boarding facility for pets as space allows. Read more about the Cohn Shelter at Welcome to the Cohn Pet Care Facility. Address/Contact 1407 N. Western Stillwater, OK 74078 (405) 744-3647 Boarding Facilities The Cohn Pet Care Facility is equipped to serve as a boarding facility for pets as space allows. Hours are M-F 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. (closed noon-1 p.m.); Saturday and Sunday drop off: 9:00-9:30 am; pick up: 3:00-3:30 p.m. Cats: $15 per animal per day Dogs: $20 per animal per day Please note that if two dogs share a kennel, the second dog will be $10 per day. For information on boarding pets, please call (405) 744-3647. Giving to the Cohn Pet Care Facility For more information or to secure your own beloved pet's place, please contact Ashley Hesser, assistant director of development at the OSU Foundation at 405-385-0715 or ahesser@osugiving.com. Checks can be earmarked for the Cohn Pet Care Facility and mailed to the OSU Foundation in any amount: OSU Foundation 400 S Monroe Stillwater, OK 74074 History Thanks to a generous donation from the estate of Ms. Leah Cohn Arendt, matched by Oklahoma State University funds, the Veterinary College was able to build the Cohn Pet Care Facility. In 1998, the facility opened offering pet owners a plan to provide a home and care for their beloved furry family members long after the owner is gone. The shelter is located on eight acres of land north of the OSU Veterinary Medical Hospital. The building is 6,600 sq. ft with some very special features: A cat room, specifically designed to meet the exercise needs of cats, is located inside where the sun shines into the room most of the day A designated area for veterinary medical examinations, treatment and grooming Outdoor runs and separate dog kennels are provided A ‘visiting’ area where the animals can enjoy being with people in an atmosphere that is ‘just like home’ Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©