Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter CVM Counseling Services House System House System Home Rules & Logging Points Camuti House Iben House Ewing House Krull House Wellness Committee Resources Give Wellness Home CVM Counseling Services Vet Med Counseling Services is here to help and support you in any way we can while you work hard earning your veterinary or graduate degree at the College of Veterinary Medicine. Meet the Counselors Jeremiah Grissett, Ph.D. is the CVM Counselor and Wellness Coordinator. He is a licensed Marriage and Family Therapist who has been practicing therapy in the Stillwater community since he completed his master’s degree in December 2015. While pursuing a doctorate in Human Development and Family science at OSU, Grissett has worked in a community mental health agency and a group practice in Stillwater. He serves the CVM students by offering individual and group therapy and promoting wellness programs and initiatives targeting student wholeness and wellbeing. Danielle "Dani" Deros is the CVM Student Counseling Services Clinical Intern. She is a fourth-year graduate student in the Clinical Psychology program at Oklahoma State University. During her doctoral training, Dani has served as an associate at the Psychological Services Center at Oklahoma State in the Psychology Department providing in-person and virtual individual and group therapy services, as well as psychological assessments. Most recently, she served as the Associate Director of Assessment Services within the PSC. She will serve CVM students during the 2021-22 academic year by offering individual therapy and by advocating for veterinary student mental health and overall well-being. Hours and Appointments Therapy Services by Appointment Jeremiah’s Availability: Monday-Friday, 1–6 p.m. Dani’s Availability: Monday & Tuesday, 1–6 p.m. *Additional appointment times available upon request Online Therapy Services To further support the social distancing protocol strongly suggested by our state and local governments because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CVM Student Counseling Services is able to offer online therapy appointments for students. Due to Oklahoma regulations on teletherapy, I am unfortunately only able to provide online therapy to students who are still in Oklahoma; however, I am able to provide consultation services for anything related to mental health or personal wellbeing over the phone to all students during this time. Scheduling a Counseling Appointment Login to the Patient Portal at the University Health Services website Choose the “Appointments” tab on the left-hand side; then select “Schedule an appointment.” Select “Veterinary Student Counseling Services.” (this selection applies to DVM and CVM graduate students) Choose your counselor Select either an in-person session or an online session. Choose an available time that best suits your schedule. If you are unable to schedule an appointment online, you may also call 405-744-6145. If there is no answer, please leave a voicemail and the counselor will contact you as soon as possible to schedule your appointment. Online Counseling Appointments If you scheduled an online counseling appointment, follow these directions: Find a quiet, private space. Have a well charged device with internet access and a webcam; your cell phone will work, but a computer using either Chrome or Firefox browsers will work best. For appointments with Jeremiah go to https://doxy.me/osucvmcounseling For appointments with Dani go to https://doxy.me/osucvmintern Enter your name where prompted; this will take you to the virtual waiting room. Wait for your therapist to begin your session. If you experience any technical difficulties during this time, call the CVM Student Counseling Services office at 405-744-6145 to speak with the therapist to troubleshoot the issue. Location Map to counseling office from student's locked mailbox room. Jeremiah’s office is located in 162 McElroy Hall. Dani’s office is located in 163 McElroy Hall. To find the counselor’s office from the main lobby of McElroy Hall, follow the steps below: Go past the Student Services office and go to the Student’s Locked Mailbox Room. From there, walk through the Soft Lounge and Old Phys to the hallway at the south end of Old Phys. Continue down the hallway until you can turn right. You will see a door that will lead you to another hallway. Go through that door. Turn left after walking through the door and turn right down the hallway. Walk past the elevator and water fountain to offices 162 and 163, which will be on your left. Frequently Asked Questions How much are counseling services? Services are FREE for any current CVM DVM or Graduate student. Will CVM faculty, staff, and students know that I am going to therapy? Only if you tell them. We will make your confidentiality a priority, ensuring that no details of your attendance or treatment records will be disclosed to anyone outside of CVM Counseling services. What is therapy like? The therapy experience depends a lot on how you approach it. Ultimately, it is an intentional conversation with an impartial person who can help guide and direct you through challenges in life. I don't think my problems are that big or important, should I even go to therapy? You don't have to be in a crisis to go to therapy, it is for anyone who is having a hard time with life. Will attending therapy count as an excused absence? Yes, we can provide you with the necessary documentation to have your absence excused. In Case of Emergency If there is a mental health emergency during normal office hours (M-F, 8-5), please utilize the one of the following: Call the CVM Dean's office (405-744-6595) or the Student Services Office (405-744-2264) Go to University Counseling Services in Student Union 320 (405-744-5472) Go to the nearest hospital emergency room Call 911 For after hours emergencies, please call the campus safety hotline: 1-855-225-2726 If you are concerned about someone else's safety or a threat to the safety of others on the OSU campus, call the OSU Behavioral Consultation Team Hotline (M-F, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. only): 405-744-3333. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©