Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Location We are located on the Southwest corner of the intersection at W Farm Rd and McFarland Ave on the Oklahoma State University campus in Stillwater, Oklahoma. Parking Visitor parking spaces are located on the east side of our building along the adjacent sidewalk. Watch for signs for visitor parking, making sure it is not a staff spot. Further information about parking can be found on the Campus Map. Directions McElroy Hall Address 208 N McFarland Stillwater, OK 74078 GPS coordinates for McElroy Hall are 36.124305, - 97.081579. To McElroy Hall from I-35 Take the Stillwater exit and go east about 15 miles until you enter Stillwater. Go to the fourth stoplight and turn left (north) onto Western Street. Go approximately ¼ mile and at the traffic light turn right onto Farm Road. Continue east on Farm Rd. and turn right on McFarland St. McElroy Hall is on the right – visitor parking is on the east side of the building. To McElroy Hall from Highway 51 East (Tulsa) Take Highway 51 W almost all the way through Stillwater. Continue on Highway 51 (known as 6th street) until you hit Western Street and take a right (north). Go approximately ¼ mile and at the traffic light turn right onto Farm Road. Continue east and turn right on McFarland St. McElroy Hall is on the right – visitor parking is on the east side of the building. To McElroy Hall from Cimarron Turnpike After the last toll booth, stay on the exit road (don’t exit Perkins Rd.). The highway will end on Washington street. Continue south on Washington. Just after the first stoplight (at the intersection of Lakeview and Washington), the street veers left and becomes Boomer Rd, but keep right and you will be on N. Washington Street headed straight for the OSU campus. Continue south to the second stop light. Turn right on Hall of Fame Ave, and continue west on Hall of Fame around curve. At the traffic light, turn left onto Farm Rd. Continue east on Farm Rd. and turn right on McFarland St. McElroy Hall is on the right – visitor parking is on the east side of the building. Campus Map For campus wayfinding and parking, please see the OSU Campus Map. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©