Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Shelter Surgery The OSU CVM Shelter Surgery program consists of two separate classes that allow students to learn and practice surgery techniques by spaying and neutering shelter animals. Surgical Fundamentals in Shelter Patients is a two-week senior rotation where senior veterinary students gain surgical and anesthesia experience. This is a required rotation for all senior students. Junior Surgery is where junior veterinary students first learn to perform spays and neuters as part of their surgical training. This prepares them for clinics their senior year. The program benefits the shelters by providing low cost surgical procedures, vaccines and exams. This helps ensure the animals stay healthy and ready for adoption. Many animals are actually adopted by their students during the semester! This program partners with more than 30 (and counting) Oklahoma municipal shelters and rescue groups. These groups bring their dogs and cats to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital to be spayed or neutered. This prevents unwanted litters from animals that might be adopted without surgery, perpetuating the over-populations issues that face many communities. The focus of this program is to provide practical surgical and anesthesia experience to students. They perform anesthesia and surgery under the guidance of clinical faculty. Approximately 3,000 animals have surgery through this program each year, with each senior student performing 10 to 20 procedures per rotation. These are primarily spays and neuters, but other procedures may be performed as well. Amputations are performed on animals with severe leg or tail injuries to allow animals to be adopted that may have otherwise been euthanized. The students also perform dentals on patients to gain experience with routine dental procedures. Student Impact In addition to surgical skills, the students learn other aspects of veterinary medicine. This includes anesthesia and pain management options, physical exams, and basic animal handling skills. We utilize the Fear FreeTM methods of handling dogs and cats to make their veterinary visits less stressful. A thorough examination is performed on each animal, allowing the students to discuss health issues and learn about treating common conditions. Performing anesthesia and associated procedures, including intravenous catheter placement and tracheal intubation, allows students to practice hands-on skills. These skills will impact every animal that students work with in the future. Community Impact The Shelter Surgery Program serves Oklahoma by spaying and neutering shelter pets prior to adoption. This reduces the number of unwanted animals ending up back in the shelter system. Vaccines and parasite control help keep animals healthy and happy, increasing their chances of being adopted into a forever home. Questions If you have questions regarding the Shelter Surgery program, please contact the OSU Boren Veterinary Medical Hospital at 405-744-7000. Funding The OSU CVM Shelter Surgery Program is partially funded by gifts from generous donors. Giving To learn more about giving to the Shelter Surgery program, contact Ashley Hesser, assistant director of development at the OSU Foundation at 405-385-0715 or ahesser@osugiving.com. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©