Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Alumni Home Giving Career Services Alumni and Friends Endowed Scholarship The Friday Bit Class Representatives and Reunions Class Projects Conferences and Events Alumni Awards Alumni Society Featured Alumni Walk of Honor CVHS Merchandise Update Alumni Information Join the Alumni Association Class Projects and Gifts Are you and your classmates curious or thinking about starting your own class project? If so, please contact Ashley Hesser, assistant director of development at the OSU Foundation at 405-385-0715 or ahesser@osugiving.com. There are also several giving opportunities listed on the OSU Foundation website that are of great importance to the future of CVM's success and advancement. View list of giving opportunities Class of 1953 Oyler Conference Room Classes of 1960 and 1969 Dr. Michael D. Lorenz Endowed Scholarship for Veterinary Medicine In honor of all that Dr. Lorenz has contributed to the veterinary profession—as a small animal practitioner, an instructor, a researcher, an academic leader/author, and a proponent of veterinary medicine—the Classes of 1960 and 1969 have established the Dean Michael D. Lorenz Endowed Scholarship to benefit future OSU veterinary students. Class of 1963 Distinguished Lectureship Series The Class of 1963 provides an opportunity for faculty, students and practitioners to interact annually with an eminent scholar. Chosen event speakers will be leaders of national and international reputation in biomedical research, veterinary science and medicine from across North America and internationally. Regular visits by outstanding clinicians and researchers promote interactions with other academic institutions, provide opportunities to demonstrate first-hand the strengths of our programs, stimulate recruiting, and generally raise the visibility and reputation of the OSU CVM. The endowed fund sponsored by the class supports the cost of the annual lectureship which is the keynote address for the CVM Fall Veterinary Conference. Class of 1965 The class stepped forward to help provide adequate learning space for our growing class size while recognizing Roger J. Panciera (’53). Class of 1968 Dr. Roger J. Panciera Endowed Scholarship Created in 2018 at the class' 50th reunion anniversary, the scholarship honors a former professor, mentor and nationally renowned pathologist, Roger J. Panciera, DVM (1953). The award benefits students with documented financial need. Class of 1970 Museum on Wheels The Class of 1970 has established a class project through a Museum on Wheels Fund. The Museum on Wheels establishes a permanent legacy in honor of the veterinary campus and Class of 1970 for the restoration of a 1953 vintage truck, a unique vehicle preserving the heritage of veterinary medicine education and the tools of the trade as the years have advanced. The mobile iconic veterinary museum will be seen on display and in exhibition venues to chronicle veterinary medicine history. The Museum on Wheels is now ready for internal and external collegiate and community events. This veterinary ambulatory truck is complete with veterinary instruments on display contributed by OSU College of Veterinary Medicine alumni. To reserve the Museum on Wheels for an event, contact Sharon Worrell at 405-744-5630 or sworrel@okstate.edu. University policies and accountability processes apply. Class of 1971 The Class of 1971 is working toward establishing funding for landscaping for the new classroom facility. Class of 1977 Veterinary Medicine Fund Donations from the Class of 1977 continue to build as the class works toward determining a specific project. Class of 1978 The Class of 1978 is working toward a new gift supporting student learning. Class of 1982 Class of 1982 Scholarship Established as a Class of 1982 scholarship gift, the purpose of the award is to assist full-time enrolled veterinary students with documented financial need. Class of 1984 Veterinary Medicine Fund Established in 1993 as a Class of 1984 project, gifts made to this fund continue to build toward the endowed level. Class of 1989 Class of 1989 Endowed Scholarship Donations from the Class of 1989 have endowed a scholarship with the inaugural award made in 2018. Class of 1990 Glenn Patterson Memorial Scholarship Established in 1997 by the class of 1990 in memory of their late classmate, Glenn A. Patterson. The scholarship supports students of high moral character, dedicated to the advancement of food animal production medicine. Class of 1997 Classmates of 1997 created giving for Alumni Affairs programming. Class of 2002 Brad Fields Memorial Endowed Scholarship Named for a late classmate, awards benefit a first-year student with financial need. Class of 2007 Veterinary Medicine Fund The Class of 2007 designated funds for use on an outdoor campus improvement project that is utilized by the students of the College of Veterinary Medicine. Class of 2017 Pay It Forward The class of 2017 is ‘paying it forward’ literally. Prior to commencement, the class made a departing gift of $1,200 to establish the Pay It Forward Fund. The Fund is designed to provide clients a way to get their animals the care they need when the client may not be able to afford it at the time. It is also intended to provide treatment for stray animals in need of veterinary medical attention. “The intention of the ‘pay it forward’ aspect is the hope that clients who use it will make contributions and that our class, our families, and the community will make yearly contributions to the fund,” explains Dr. Kaitlyn Coyes, one of two class representatives. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©