Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Apply Now Giving My CVM Directory Open House Employment at OSU Post/Find a DVM Position CVM Merchandise Contact Us Library Cohn Pet Care Facility HireOSUGrads OSU Alumni Association OStateTV Operation Catnip Wellness Seeking Equine Internal Medicine Faculty Friday, December 10, 2021 The Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences at Oklahoma State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine is seeking applications for one (1) full-time clinical track or tenure-track faculty position in Equine Internal Medicine to join our team. Duties include: Clinical, laboratory and classroom instruction for veterinary students in all 4 years of the professional curriculum Mentoring/training of interns and residents Provide clinical service on a primary care and referral basis in the Boren Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital Outreach activities (i.e. presentations) to horse owners/enthusiasts and veterinarians locally, nationally, and internationally Participation in academic affairs and administrative duties Professional opportunities: Innovative teaching and clinical service is highly valued. Collaborative research and scholarly activities encouraged, but not critical for hiring. Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine has a variety of unique resources that allow exceptional teaching and research opportunities in equine medicine and surgery. Oklahoma is home to a large horse population and hosts many national and international horse shows. There is a busy, reputable racetrack ~1hr from the veterinary teaching hospital. Quarter horses and stock breed horses make up the majority of the caseload. The caseload, from a disease perspective, is very diverse and offers the opportunity to experience and treat a wide variety of conditions. The ideal candidate is a team player that is passionate about teaching in a healthy environment and has intellectual curiosity and motivation to advance the specialty of equine internal medicine in a clinical setting. Strong communication skills are a necessity as well as creativity in maintaining and growing the equine internal medicine case load in a competitive environment. The ability to build meaningful professional relationships and to contribute to a friendly, welcoming and enjoyable working environment is highly regarded at OSU-CVM. Qualifications: Candidates must hold a DVM or comparable veterinary degree, have residency training in the specialty of large animal internal medicine and be certified by the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine. Board eligible candidates will be considered. Eligibility for faculty licensure in Oklahoma is required. Salary/Compensation: Professional rank and salary will be commensurate with the candidate’s qualifications and experience. This position comes with an excellent benefits package, including a generous sign-on bonus, start-up funding for clinical equipment or research endeavors as well as office electronics. Funding support for conference (continuing education) registration and travel is provided. Ability to do up to 4 weeks of consultation work outside our referral area is also included. Faculty Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) is negotiable and creative FTE’s will be considered. Personal opportunities: Stillwater is a great place to live and was named one of the best small towns in America and the best college town in Oklahoma. Cost of living is quite reasonable and there is ready access to big city amenities with Tulsa and Oklahoma City both 60 miles away. Recreational and entertainment options are abundant in the region with camping, hiking, golf courses, state parks, lakes for boating and fishing, live theatre productions including the newly opened McKnight Center located on the OSU campus, rodeos, the excitement of Big XII sporting events and more. For more information visit www.stillwaterchamber.org. Review of applicants will begin upon receipt of applications and will continue until the position is filled. Applications including letter of intent with statement of professional goals, curriculum vitae, and three names of references and contact information should be submitted at jobs.okstate.edu. For inquiries please contact: Dr. Daniel J Burba, Department Head, Veterinary Clinical Sciences at (405) 744-8469 or dburba@okstate.edu. Interested parties may also contact the chair of the search committee, Dr. Lyndi Gilliam, at l.gilliam@okstate.edu. If you are seeking a team-oriented environment, Oklahoma State University’s Veterinary Clinical Sciences is the place to be! Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.blog comments powered by Disqus Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©