Skip Navigation College of Veterinary Medicine Toggle navigation myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks About About CVM Mission and Vision Message from the Dean Location Administration Faculty Facilities Facilities Environmental Report Departments Veterinary Clinical Sciences Physiological Sciences Veterinary Pathobiology About Stillwater Accreditation and Awards College Fact Sheet Contact Us Directory Employment Opportunities Event Calendar Giving History International Partnerships Open House Tours Update Directory Profile Information Wellness Students Student Services Apply Now DVM Program About DVM Program Eligibility Required Pre-Vet Courses DVM Curriculum Expenses and Financial Aid Residency and Contract States Class Statistics Early Admission Program Transfer Students High School Preparation Veterinary Career Opportunities FAQs Comparative Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Other Programs Veterinary Technology PAVE Program Tours About Stillwater Open House Current Students Dual Graduate & Professional Degree Programs My CVM Counseling International Partnerships William E. Brock Memorial Library My OkState O-Key Bursar Campus Maps Wellness Commencement Information Hospital VMH Home Small Animal Services Small Animal Home Anesthesia Services Primary Care Companion Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Dentistry Diagnostic Imaging Emergency & Critical Care Internal Medicine Ophthalmology Minimally Invasive Procedures Surgery Zoological Medicine Large Animal Services Large Animal Home Anesthesia Services Diagnostic Imaging Equine Internal Medicine and Surgery Food Animal Medicine and Surgery Ophthalmology Large Animal Reproduction (Theriogenology) Shelter Surgery CVM Ranch Contact Us Location Mission Prescription Refill Form Patient Referral Employment Opportunities Vet Connect Newsletter Client Forms Hospitalization Process Grateful Client Giving Program Operation Catnip OADDL OADDL Home About About OADDL Hours and Location Board of Advisers Forms Disease Testing Newsletter Contact OADDL Veterinarians Veterinarians Home Continuing Education Referring Veterinarians Integrated Beef Cattle Program Post/Find a DVM Position Clinical Trials Vet Connect Newsletter Research CVM Research Labs Institute for Translational and Emerging Research in Advanced Comparative Therapy Animals in Research and Teaching Research Opportunities Grant Development International Partnerships Summer Research Training Program William E. Brock Memorial Library Clinical Trials Alumni Alumni Home Giving Career Services The Friday Bit Featured Alumni Class Information Representatives and Reunions Class Projects and Gifts Alumni Society Alumni Awards National Conferences and Events CVM Walk of Honor Orange Sockies Update Your Information Join the Alumni Association Media News and Media Home Current News Announcements Event Calendar Videos OStateTV Success Stories Net Vet Weekly The Friday Bit Vet Cetera Magazine OADDL E-News Equine News Subscriptions Sidebar Menu FacebookInstagramTwitter Administration Dean Carlos Risco, DVM, DACT Dr. Risco received his DVM degree in 1980 from the University of Florida, College of Veterinary Medicine and is a diplomate in the American College of Theriogenologists. From 1982 to 1990, he was a full partner at Chino Valley Veterinary Associates in Ontario, California. In 1990, Risco joined the faculty at The University of Florida, College of Veterinary Medicine as an Assistant Professor, and from 2011 – 2018 was Professor and chair of the Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences. He is currently Professor and Dean, Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine. Dr. Risco is author or co-author on 102-refereed publications, 20 review articles, 22 book chapters and has edited one textbook in dairy cattle production medicine. He received a Fulbright Scholar Grant in 2004 to Argentina and in 2005, the Carl Norden Distinguished Teacher and Alumni Awards from the University Of Florida College Of Veterinary Medicine. Risco also received the University of Florida Blue Key Award for distinction in teaching and research in 2005. He received the teacher of the year in Large Animal Medicine award by the class of 1992, 1994, 1996 and 2008, University of Florida, College of Veterinary Medicine. Associate Dean for Academic and Student Affairs Jerry Ritchey, DVM, Ph.D., DACVP Dr. Ritchey earned a bachelor's in microbiology in1987 and a DVM degree in 1991, from Oklahoma State University. He completed residency training in anatomic pathology and a Ph.D. in immunology from North Carolina State University in 1997. Dr. Ritchey is a Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Pathologists. Dr. Ritchey joined the Department of Veterinary Pathobiology at the OSU CVM in 1997, participating in the unit mission of teaching, service and research. He has extensive experience in classroom and laboratory instruction in Pathology, Immunology and Applied Diagnostics and has been recognized with Regents Distinguished Teaching Awards, Zoetis Distinguished Veterinary Teaching Award, University Advising Excellence Award, Gamma Sigma Delta Excellence in Teaching Award, and numerous class teaching recognitions. Dr. Ritchey serves as an attending pathologist for the Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (OADDL) and twice served as interim Director of OADDL (2012-13; 2019-20). His research has focused on host responses to infectious diseases funded by grants from the NIH, USDA, OSU, and private foundations and have resulted in 96 peer reviewed publications. Dr. Ritchey served as the Department Head of Veterinary Pathobiology from 2015-2020. He currently serves on the Board of Directors for the American College of Veterinary Pathologists as President-elect of the organization. Dr. Ritchey enjoys outdoor recreation, woodworking in the Shaker tradition, and is the front man for the Pathology Rock n Roll Faculty band, AC/VP. Senior Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Education Jerry Malayer, BS, MS, Ph.D. Jerry R. Malayer, PhD, is the Senior Associate Dean for Research & Graduate Education in the College of Veterinary Medicine at Oklahoma State University, where he has been on the faculty since 1994. He is a Professor and McCasland Chair in the Department of Physiological Sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine, and an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in the Division of Agricultural Science and Natural Resources. Dr. Malayer received Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees from Purdue University, and the Ph.D. from the University of Florida in 1990. He was the recipient of a National Research Service Award Postdoctoral Fellowship from the National Institutes of Health under the mentorship of Professor Jack Gorski at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Society for the Study of Reproduction, Sigma Xi, and Phi Zeta, the Honor Society of Veterinary Medicine; he has served on Editorial Boards and been a scientific reviewer for numerous professional journals and funding agencies including the National Science Foundation, Department of Homeland Security, Defense Department and the USDA. Dr. Malayer is a member of the Oklahoma Science and Technology Council and the Health Research Committee of the Oklahoma Center for the Advancement of Science and Technology. He is a founding member of the Scientific Steering Committee of the Oklahoma Center for Adult Stem Cell Research, Past Chair of the Research Committee of the Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges, State Executive Director for Oklahoma EPSCoR, and currently serves as Vice-Chair of the Board of Directors of the Coalition of EPSCoR States. Recently, he became the founding Director of the OSU Center for Integrative Microbiome Science. Dr. Malayer has been the recipient of the Pfizer Animal Health Award for Research Excellence, the Oklahoma A&M Regent’s Distinguished Research Award, and the Oklahoma State University Graduate and Professional Student Association Award for Excellence in graduate student mentoring. In 2006, he was selected for the American Council on Education Fellows Program, and in 2007, he was recognized as a Distinguished Alumnus by Purdue University. Dr. Malayer’s research focuses on mechanisms of inter-and intra-cellular communication, the role of steroid receptors in the control of gene expression, and molecular approaches in the development of diagnostic technologies. Boren Veterinary Medical Hospital Director J. Jeff Studer, DVM, DACVO Dr. Jeff Studer is a board-certified veterinary ophthalmologist and the Director of the OSU Boren Veterinary Medical Hospital. Originally from Wichita Falls, Texas, he received his DVM from OSU in 2006. Upon graduation, he completed a one-year small animal medicine and surgery internship at Florida Veterinary Specialists. Studer then performed a three-year residency at The Animal Ophthalmology Clinic in Dallas, Texas. He received Diplomate status by the American College of Veterinary Ophthalmologists in 2011. Studer practiced veterinary ophthalmology and hospital leadership in private practice until 2018, at which time he returned to OSU to serve as Hospital Director and assistant professor of veterinary ophthalmology. In his spare time, Studer enjoys spending time with his wife, two young sons and their many pets. Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory Director Jerry Saliki, DVM, Ph.D., DACVM Originally from Cameroon in central Africa, Dr. Saliki earned his DVM degree from the University of Liege in Belgium in 1984. He came to the United states in 1989 earning a Ph.D. in Veterinary Virology from Cornell University in 1993 and becoming a diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Microbiologists in 1994. From 1993 to 2005 at OSU’s veterinary college, Saliki served as an assistant professor and subsequently associate and full professor in the Department of Veterinary Pathobiology and also as section head for virology, serology, and molecular diagnostics at OADDL. In 2005, Saliki went to the Athens Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory at the University of Georgia to serve as section head for virology and serology until 2007 when he became director of that laboratory until returning to OSU in 2020. Veterinary Clinical Sciences Department Head Daniel Burba, DVM, DACVS Dr. Daniel Burba completed an undergraduate study in Biology at Morehead State University, Morehead, KY and earnd his DVM from the College of Veterinary Medicine at Auburn University in 1986. He was accepted into an internship program in Large Animal Medicine and Surgery at Oklahoma State University and subsequently completed a residency in Equine Surgery in 1990. Burba joined Louisiana State University-School of Veterinary Medicine as an assistant professor of equine surgery in 1990. After 25 years at LSU SVM, he joined the College of Veterinary Medicine at Oklahoma State University in 2015. Burba became a Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Surgeons in 1995. He is a member of Phi Zeta Veterinary Medicine Honor Society, Gamma Sigma Delta Agriculture Honor Society, Veterinary Wound Management Society, American Association of Equine Practitioners and American Association of Veterinary Clinicians. His research and clinical interests include orthopedics and laser cribbing surgeries. Dr. Burba holds the McCasland Professorship in Biomedical Laser Surgery and is the department head for the CVHS Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences. Veterinary Pathobiology Department Head Theresa Rizzi, BS, DVM, DACVP Dr. Rizzi is originally from Brooklyn, New York. She completed a B.S. in Biology (1993) from the State University of New York at Old Westbury and DVM (1998) from Oklahoma State University. Following veterinary college, she practiced general small animal medicine and emergency medicine for several years. She entered a residency in veterinary clinical pathology at OSU in 2002 and became a Diplomate of the American College of Veterinary Pathologists in 2005. Rizzi joined the faculty at Oklahoma State University in 2005 and currently serves as Department Head for Veterinary Pathobiology. She remains active in teaching veterinary students and residents at the OSU College of Veterinary Medicine, veterinary technician students at OSU-OKC, and rotates through cytology service as an attending clinical pathologist in the Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital. Physiological Sciences Department Head Martin Furr, DVM, Ph.D., MA Ed, DACVIM Dr. Furr earned his DVM from Oklahoma State University in 1986. He practiced veterinary medicine at a clinic in Oklahoma and then completed a Residency in Internal Medicine at the Virginia Tech Marion duPont Scott Equine Medical Center in 1989. Furr then became an assistant professor of Large Animal Clinical Sciences at the Virginia-Maryland Regional College of Veterinary Medicine at Virginia Tech. In 1991, Furr joined the faculty OSU as an Assistant Professor of Equine Internal Medicine and earned Diplomate status, receiving Board Certification from the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine. In 1996, Furr was promoted to Associate Professor of Equine Internal Medicine, and in 2000, completed his Ph.D. in Neuroimmunology at the University of Maryland. In 2006, he was promoted to full professor, and in 2015 obtained a master's degree in medical education from Michigan State University. Currently, Furr is Professor and Head of the Department of Physiological Sciences at Oklahoma State University. He continues to teach and consult, and has spoken regularly at national and international meetings on topics of equine internal medicine, neonatalogy and neurology. He has published approximately 90 peer reviewed research papers, and is the primary author and editor of a major textbook of equine neurology, now in its second edition, with his colleague, Dr. Steve Reed. His research interests include equine neonatal medicine and critical care, equine neurology (particularly equine protozoal myeloencephalitis), equine immunology, faculty development and medical education. Oklahoma State University CAMPUSES CAMPUSES Stillwater Tulsa Center for Health Sciences Oklahoma City Institute of Technology Division of Agriculture Veterinary Medicine UNIVERSITY LINKS UNIVERSITY LINKS Campus Safety Diversity Research Extension & Engagement Alumni & Friends OSU Athletics America's Healthiest Campus ® News & Information RESOURCES RESOURCES Ethics Point EEO Statement Accessibility Trademarks Terms of Service Privacy Notice Webmaster CAMPUS MAP © - Oklahoma State University | All Rights Reserved ©