To view this email as a web page, go here. Yale University March 2022 Dear friends, As we head into the final stretch of the spring semester, I would like to thank you for your ongoing interest in Yale’s global engagement. With the support of our partners and friends around the world, we have continued to make progress on the aspects of international activities that are key to Yale’s mission. I had a great visit to Singapore over spring break — my first trip outside our time zone in over two years. It was so good to see the many colleagues who have worked for the past decade to expand liberal arts and sciences education in Asia. At a reception earlier in the month, it was also wonderful to have met many of the Yale-NUS students who are visiting Yale this semester. Add in a wonderful Gruber Distinguished Lecture in Women’s Rights by Jocelyn Samuels at the law school, and altogether it was a month of exciting in-person interactions. In celebration of these and our many other collaborations, with this edition of Global Engagement News I’d like to share with you a selection of stories that highlight our most recent work to prepare students for global citizenship, lead research on matters of global importance, and enhance our thriving global networks. Warm regards, Pericles Lewis Vice President for Global Strategy Vice Provost for Academic Initiatives Douglas Tracy Smith Professor of Comparative Literature Yale University Yale’s response to the invasion of Ukraine In a statement on March 10, President Peter Salovey detailed ways the university is responding to the unfolding humanitarian catastrophe in Ukraine, condemned Vladimir Putin’s war of aggression, and vowed that Yale will continue to support students and scholars from Ukraine and elsewhere in the region. Read more from Yale experts on the invasion, and ways the Yale community has come together to support the people impacted by the invasion. Read more Latin American Policy Leader series is launched Luis Almagro, Secretary General of the Organization of American States, visited Yale in February. He met with President Salovey and delivered the first lecture in the new Latin American Policy Leader speaker series titled ‘Strengthening Democracy in Latin America: Progress on Peace and Development.’ Learn more about the series and view a video recording of Almagro’ lecture. Read more Yale team wins global health competition Five students from diverse fields of study at Yale collaborated to solve a global health challenge and take home first prize in the Emory Morningside Global Health Case Competition. Before entering this competition, the multidisciplinary team had won the Yale Institute for Global Health (YIGH) Case Competition which helped prepare them to deliver their winning Emory presentation ‘Taking on Environmental Health Disparities: Developing Health Action Plans to Improve the Health of Indigenous Peoples.’ Read more Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs to open fall 2022, James Levinsohn named dean President Salovey announced in January that the Yale Jackson School of Global Affairs will open in the fall of 2022, and he named James Levinsohn, distinguished economist and educator, as inaugural dean. Read more Yale alumni convene at Global Leaders Forum in Rome A two-day event in Rome brought together alumni, Yale World Fellows, faculty, staff, and affiliates to discuss the role of global citizens in addressing pressing international issues. The event was a partnership between the Yale International Alliance, Yale Alumni Association, and various Yale regional clubs and associations. to discuss the role of global citizens in addressing pressing international issues. Read more Yale and the global climate crisis Across the Yale campus and with our international research partners, members of the Yale community are focusing on efforts to address the global climate crisis. The newly announced Climate Impact Innovation Fund, established with an initial $15 million donation, will operate as part of the Yale Planetary Solutions Project. Read more Greenberg World Fellows Program names its 2022 class of World Fellows These 16 extraordinary individuals consist of global leaders working in government, the environment, technology, journalism, international development, and the arts, around the world—from China to Uruguay, from Belarus to South Africa. This cohort brings the total number of World Fellows since the program’s start in 2002 to nearly 400 Fellows, representing 94 countries. Read more Directors Forum program expands outreach and engagement in Africa Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage (IPCH) launched a new global outreach initiative, the Directors Forum. The objective of the Forum is to provide a trusted platform for leaders and entrepreneurs working in Africa’s culture sector to connect the past and present. Read more Additional international news featured on Yale websites:Q&A with Yale’s Dan Esty discusses IPCC report: A 'clarion call for action' on climate change Gilchrest to direct Yale’s Institute for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage Lively minds: Program aims to enhance early childhood development in Ghana Koh helps win World Court ruling ordering Russia to halt Ukraine invasion International Organization for Migration and YSPH launch data responsibility initiative Here at Yale: Stories of a spymaster Inclusion Economics at Yale: Promoting inclusive institutions, economies, and societies Best in the world: Yale student Nathan Chen ’24 wins Olympic gold What will set the Jackson School apart: A conversation with James Levinsohn Yale Report: Future leaders want businesses to tackle environmental challenges Students create ‘Afrofiles podcast’ to highlight Africa Yale law faculty offer analysis of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine Yale University • Office of International Affairs Contact us by Email • Visit our website: world.yale.edu • Subscribe to our newsletters at the Yale Subscription Center • Follow us on social media: Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn This email was sent by: Yale University P.O. BOX 208109, New Haven, CT, 06745 US Unsubscribe from this Mailing List Update Your Preferences Privacy Policy