First Monday Update from the Director View as a web page May 2, 2022 Updates from the Vice ProvostMay is a month of many opportunities to meet and gather. I hope you will participate in the public forums on May 2, 4, 10, 11 and 16 with our finalists for the division’s two Executive Director positions. Find details on the search webpage. I am looking forward to seeing more of our great state and interacting with stakeholders and colleagues during upcoming county visits and the Regards to Rural Conference in Pendleton later this month. I had the opportunity to meet in person with your division leadership team (also known as the Collaborative)—program leaders, regional directors, and other administrative unit leaders—in late April. It was a wonderful opportunity for fellowship, to receive input and to identify action items to advance the work of the division. The consensus of the team was that additional capacity for evaluation is critical to our success as an organization. We have evaluation expertise at the program level. I envision adding a position to provide division-wide leadership, support and coordination in this area. We are also scoping a grants coordinator position to provide dedicated support for Extension and Engagement, which would be funded through returned overhead. I welcome your feedback and questions on this approach, and any other matters. Please join the next division Quarterly Conversation on May 20, when we’ll have a chance to share more successes, updates and dialogue. New employees and positions Christian Ayles Seed Certification Aide, Sherman County Kendra Blake Seed Certification Aid, Union County Elizabeth Brunner 4-H Program Coordinator, Deschutes County Sarah Cameron Education Program Assistant, Clackamas County Joshua Hough Analyst Programmer, Outdoor School Linda Pinkham Education Program Assistant, FCH Danielle Wood Administrative Assistant, FCH In memorium Michael Gamroth, longtime Extension agent for dairy, died on April 10, 2022. Read Mike’s obituary. Let's get to know you! More profiles will be shared in each monthly edition of the First Monday Update. To share your story, complete this questionnaire and provide a photo to Ann Marie Murphy. Bright spotsChris Branam received the 2022 ACE Rising Star Award. This award recognizes communicators, instructors and researchers who demonstrate exceptional leadership and technical skills in their communication field, to their institution, and service to ACE (Association of Communications Excellence). Congratulations, Chris! The IR-4 Project has recognized horticulture weed specialist Ed Peachey as a 2022 SOAR award winner for his significant impacts to research and the specialty crop industry as a whole. Ed is one of four individuals from across the United States to receive the award. Congratulations, Ed! Dam Proud Day (DPD) activities this year raised $50,390 from 391 gifts for the division. When consolidated, the money raised by the five division funds would have placed Extension and Engagement ninth on the DPD leaderboard. KidSpirit led the division with 262 gifts raising $21,463! A project led by retiring 4-H faculty member Maureen Hosty received praise from Sitton Elementary School Principal (Portland) “[The Roosevelt High School Teens as Teacher Corps] 4-H program has been instrumental in bringing hands-on learning experiences to our primary classrooms. [K-4th grade] students have loved the nature walks and chick hatching. Oftentimes we find that students are the best teachers of the class! This program has been instrumental in bringing our core content off the page and into the daily life of the classroom. I highly recommend this program as a way to bring hands-on science into our classrooms!” Seventy-eight Roosevelt High School Teens as Teachers, grades 9 to 12, were trained in fall 2021, team-taught 225 elementary school students in 11 classrooms in two schools in spring 2022. The Teens as Teacher Corps program gives teens the opportunity to give back to their community, learn important job skills, explore career paths and in some cases earn a small stipend. A shoutout to Melissa Fery who shared her knowledge of agritourism for a story that appeared in The Bend Bulletin and was also published in Capital Press. Audrey Comerford appeared on OPB's Think Out Loud talking about how this industry is affecting the state’s economy, and why more farmers are joining the trend. Extension agritourism folks have been receiving good visibility in the press this year! Deschutes County 4-H'ers helped plant trees in Redmond. The event was covered by the local TV station. A special shout-out to Reiko Reed of the Ponderosa Pine Small Animal 4-H Club for doing an on-camera interview. Weston Miller put OSU Extension – and the Master Gardener™ Program – on the map with three national and Oregon radio appearances. National Public Radio, Science Friday, April 8: Weston was the guest expert to field questions from across the nation. Jefferson Public Radio, The Jefferson Exchange, April 5: Weston discusses changes in USDA Hardiness zones that predict where plants are grown and how well. Oregon Public Broadcasting, Think Out Loud, March 18: discussion about climate change affecting home gardens. Keep sharing celebrations and shoutouts on Teams When you click on the orange button link, it will take you to a web page link that says "Launch it now". Select "Open Link” in the pop up box to launch your Teams application and get into the Teams channel. Engagement opportunitiesListening sessions on the National Disaster Recovery Framework Input from a broad array of partners and stakeholders is essential to ensuring that the next NDRF contemplates the many sources of recovery resources that can assist impacted communities after disaster. FEMA is seeking input from state, tribal, and territorial leaders, volunteer organizations, non-government and professional organizations partners to ensure the NDRF update will facilitate a more collaborative approach to disaster recovery. Listening sessions have been scheduled. Please register for one of these sessions May 3, 1 p.m. EDT May 19, 3 p.m. EDT You or your team may contact our NDRF Project Co-Leads, Kimberly Torbert or Tina Velcich to answer any questions you have about this initiative. Upcoming conversations May 20 9 to 10:30 a.m. Do you have information you want to share? You can submit it on the e-news page on the employee intranet. It allows you to upload files to Box, see what is covered in the e-news and read past issues. Find more OSU Extension Service resources Extension Service Employee Resources Intranet OSU Extension Service Website Ask an Expert OSU Extension Service prohibits discrimination in all its programs, services, activities, and materials. This publication will be made available in an accessible alternative format upon request. Please contact OSU Extension Communications. Esta publicación estará disponible en un formato alternativo accesible a petición. Póngase en contacto con OSU Extension Communications. Occasionally, you will receive communications from Oregon State University Extension Service. If you no longer want to receive these communications, please click Unsubscribe. Copyright 2022 OSU Extension Service. All rights reserved.