Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Visit Tulane Apply to Tulane VPI Faculty & Staff Get Involved with the VPI Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Home About VPI Institute Overview Faculty & Staff Faculty In Focus Doctoral Students VPI Monthly Newsletter Special VPI Statement Youth Violence Prevention Week - April 25 to 29 Current Programs Pincus Scholarship Center for Youth Equity Violence Prevention Certificate Impact Publications Faculty in the News Tulane Press Violence-related Courses at Tulane Resources Violence Prevention Conferences Funding Opportunities Research Resources Community Resources Contact Us Give to VPI Home About VPI Institute Overview Faculty & Staff Faculty In Focus Doctoral Students VPI Monthly Newsletter Special VPI Statement Youth Violence Prevention Week - April 25 to 29 Current Programs Pincus Scholarship Center for Youth Equity Violence Prevention Certificate Impact Publications Faculty in the News Tulane Press Violence-related Courses at Tulane Resources Violence Prevention Conferences Funding Opportunities Research Resources Community Resources Contact Us Give to VPI Visit Tulane Apply to Tulane VPI Faculty & Staff Get Involved with the VPI Information For... VIOLENCE PREVENTION INSTITUTE VIOLENCE PREVENTION INSTITUTE VPI Infographic Grid 1 in 4 females and 1 in 7 males have experienced intimate partner violence in their lifetime. Source: CDC See Drs. Burnette, Buttell, Hayes, and Kondkar's work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. Every 98 seconds another person experiences sexual assault in the U.S. Source: Dept. of Justice See Drs. Clum, Kissinger, Kenney, and Seal's work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. 1 in 3 adolescents in the U.S. experiences physical, sexual, emotional or verbal abuse from a dating partner. Source: CDC See Drs. Madkour, Gage, Lederer's work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. At least 738,000 children experienced abuse or neglect in the U.S. in 2015. Source: Dept. of Health and Human Services See Drs. Taylor, Drury Zeanah, and Gray’s work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. Louisiana’s rate of gun death has been almost double the national average since 1999. Source: CDC See Drs. Constans and Manguno-Mire's work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. Read more about Louisiana’s gun laws. Black infant mortality rates exceed white infant mortality rates by two-fold. Source: National Vital Statistics See Drs. Wallace, Lewis, Keyes, and Theall's work to learn more about how Tulane addresses this issue. Header Faculty In Focus Click the names below to learn more about the projects these faculty are working on as researchers and community allies making a difference in the world of violence prevention. VPI Featured Staff View Samantha Francois Five-Parish Neighborhood Safety Project Samantha Francois is asking how we can make communities safer. She is going into neighborhoods across five Louisiana parishes and asking crucial questions to gauge residents' perceptions of local agencies, like the police and criminal justice courts, around ensuring public safety. Read more. Marva Lewis Community Stress Relief Curriculum Marva Lewis has done something very exciting. She recently co-developed a 4-module community stress relief curriculum called "The Ubuntu Program for Emotional Wellness" that uses resilience-building practices like collective storytelling in order to relieve some of the chronic stress in African American communities that is due to the legacies of the historical trauma of slavery. Read more. Maeve Wallace Pregnancy-Associated Homicide Study Maeve Wallace has a really cool project in the works. She wants to conduct a study on the homicide of women during pregnancy or within the first year after the end of pregnancy. With this project, she will be examining neighborhood predictors of this kind of homicide, like current and historical deprivation of resources and health-promoting infrastructure in racially- and socioeconomically-segregated areas. Read more. Kat Theall Community Violence & Biological Stress Research Kat Theall is on the edge of something great. Expanding on her previous research on the impact of neighborhood and interpersonal violence on women and children’s health, she is now researching the salient role of interpersonal and community-level stress, its link to negative health trajectories, and improving the spaces where we live, work, and play as a way to achieve greater health equity. Read more. . Upcoming Events Other The Edge of Each Other's Battles: The Vision of Audre Lorde Feb 03 Other The Edge of Each Other's Battles: The Vision of Audre Lorde Feb 03 View Violence Prevention Institute Calendar Sample social icons in body region Join the conversation – follow the VPI on social media Subscribe to our newsletter Link to Tulane Home Page School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine Dept. of Global Community Health and Behavioral Sciences 1440 Canal St, Suite 2200 New Orleans, LA 70112 vpi@tulane.edu 504-988-9965 About VPI Publications Faculty in the News Tulane Press Community Resources Get Involved Give to VPI News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University