Skip to main content University Status Testing and Support Testing Contact tracing Quarantine and isolation Guidance Campus visitors, meetings and events, and tours Health guidelines Travel guidelines Vaccine information Working on campus COVID-19 Dashboard Contact More Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for virusinfo.psu.edu. Search Term Contact University Status Testing and Support Testing Contact tracing Quarantine and isolation Guidance Campus visitors, meetings and events, and tours Health guidelines Travel guidelines Vaccine information Working on campus COVID-19 Dashboard Find Information For: Faculty and staff Students and families Graduate students International students Helpful Links FAQs Commencement Commonwealth campuses Federal Funding Reports Housing and dining Resources Close Coronavirus Information This website is dedicated to providing all Penn Staters with the information and resources they will need to succeed as the world navigates the coronavirus pandemic. Latest Updates Below is updated information for students, faculty and staff about Penn State's health and safety plans. University Park, four more Commonwealth Campuses to require face masks indoors Face masks now required to be worn indoors on eight Penn State campuses COVID-19 vaccine primary series and boosters available through UHS Penn State strongly recommends COVID-19 boosters to employees and students Share Your Vaccination Status After receiving their final dose, students, faculty and staff are strongly encouraged to share their vaccination status with the University to help inform University operations and COVID-19 management plans. Learn More Testing and Support Learn how and where to get tested; how and where to quarantine and isolate; and more about contact tracing. Testing and Support COVID-19 Dashboard With required testing paused and low usage of voluntary and asymptomatic testing, the COVID-19 dashboard also is paused. Historical data remains available. Visit the COVID-19 dashboard University Status Find the information you will need to have a successful summer. University Status Latest updates How can I find COVID-19 resources in my local community? On March 30, 2022, the federal government launched COVID.gov, a toolkit to provide information on resources for masks, treatment, vaccine, and testing related to COVID-19. The resources are searchable by county and are presented in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese. The federal government is also making the resources available over the phone through the National Hotline at 1-800-232-0233 (TTY 1-888-720-7489), which supports over 150 languages. More information can be found on this White House fact sheet. What if students do not cooperate with my request to wear masks in the classroom? The University asks that students, faculty and staff cooperate with requests that masks be worn in classrooms and individual offices, however it is up to each individual to make a decision about whether or not they wish to wear a mask. At this time, individuals cannot be required to wear a mask, except in situations where masks are required by law. I would like students in my class to continue wearing masks. How should I communicate this to my class? Faculty members and graduate teaching assistants who want students to continue to wear masks during their classes should communicate this preference directly to their students during class time or in advance via email or Canvas. It is recommended that faculty members and graduate teaching assistants provide the reason behind their request that students wear masks and communicate that the University encourages students, faculty and staff to cooperate with requests that masks be worn in classrooms and individual offices. Individuals who feel like they need an accommodation should contact the Office of Affirmative Action. Can I request that masks are worn in my office/during office hours? Yes. Faculty and staff at Penn State who work in their own individual offices may request that visitors wear masks while in their private offices and the University asks that community members respectfully cooperate with these requests. In other workspaces, employees are asked to be cognizant of others’ masking preferences when working in shared spaces and to consider wearing a mask themselves. What is the masking policy for in-person human subjects research? At all Penn State locations except the College of Medicine, Penn State Health and other facilities/buildings with specific masking requirements, masking is optional for in-person human subjects research that recruits healthy participants, as of March 23. For studies recruiting high-risk participants (as defined by the CDC), masking continues to be required for both participants and study team members at all indoor locations. For more information, please visit https://www.research.psu.edu/covid_irb online. More in Latest updates LATEST NEWS Penn State Latest News RSS Feed University Park, four more Commonwealth Campuses to require face masks indoors May-27-2022 Face masks now required to be worn indoors on eight Penn State campuses May-25-2022 University Park COVID testing site to pause operations after May 13 May-12-2022 Penn State community urged to continue to follow COVID public health guidelines Apr-28-2022 More Penn State news Information For Students and families Explore Faculty and staff Explore Commonwealth Campuses Explore Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Get News By Email // Discover News Explore News Careers Facts and Rankings Colleges Campuses Health Care Research Impact Resources Prospective Students Current Students International Students Business and Industry Veterans and Military Visitors Faculty and Staff Alumni Media Popular Links Maps Directory Libraries Academic Calendar LionPATH Stay Connected Emails / Headlines Emergency Notifications Penn State Go Strategic Communications Report Misconduct Police 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Contact Us Privacy Statement Non Discrimination Accessibility Equal Opportunity Legal Statements The Pennsylvania State University © 2021