Skip to content Visitor Information Optional line 2 - add two-line-signature to body class to display Menu Search form Search term Home The Basics Prospective Students Explore Campus Related sites... Community Engagement Visitor Information Services Welcome to the Farm Stanford University is a place where pioneering spirit meets 21st-century possibility. Announcements Our popular Student Forum for High School Students returns! Join us at the Visitor Center on Mondays and Fridays (12:00-1:00pm) as 3-5 undergraduates describe life as an undergraduate at Stanford and answer your questions! Students only -- no parents allowed! (Separate Q & A for parents - or lunch suggestions! - available...) No registration required. See details Whether you're taking one of our morning or afternoon tours or just visiting campus on your own, join us at the Visitor Center at lunchtime on Mondays and Fridays as a group of 3-5 current undergrads will sit down with you in a totally casual and friendly format to answer questions about being a student at Stanford -- from academics to activities to athletics and the endless opportunities for undergrads here on The Farm. No need to talk if you don't want to, no registration required, and don't worry if you're running a bit late. Join in the circle and feel free to bring your lunch if you like! After two full years, the Stanford Visitor Center has reopened! (Updated 04/19/2022) We are pleased to announce that the Stanford Visitor Center, a facility of the Office of Undergraduate Admission at Stanford, opened its doors again on Monday, April 18, with scheduled hours from 9:00 a.m. through 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. (Closed Memorial Day, May 31, and Independence Day, July 4, 2022) Tours for Approved Groups/Organizations to resume in May (Updated 4/12/2022) The Office of Undergraduate Admission is pleased to announce that guided tours of campus for organized groups of prospective students are scheduled to resume the first week of May with tours for approved groups provided on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays during Spring Quarter (thru June 2) at 11:15am and 1:15pm only. See details The Office of Undergraduate Admission offers guided tours by appointment for prospective undergraduate student groups of 10 or more people (up to 100 max) from the following categories: High Schools Community Colleges Not-For-Profit Organizations focused on Access or Exposure to College Qualifying Community Based Organizations Other groups: Middle schools, grade schools, and other qualifying organizations may request approval to visit and park on campus, and can be provided with resources to enjoy a self-guided visit with age appropriate sites, resources, and activities, but we are sorry to say that we are no longer providing staffing for guided tours for these age levels. Requests that have already been submitted for Spring will be reviewed in the coming days and receive responses based upon availability and qualifying status. New requests must be submitted by email to grouptours@stanford.edu. Requests for weekday visits or tours during our Summer season (running from June 13 – September 1) and beyond may be submitted as well, however the availability of tours for groups during the summer has not yet been determined and is not guaranteed. Please note that we will not grant requests for group visits through commercial or third party tour operators. All requests and communications must come from and go through a qualifying organization. Group visits are usually limited to a maximum of 100 participants, and may be limited to fewer on certain dates. May Informational Programs for Prospective Undergraduates (Updated 5/10/2022) Prospective Undergraduate Students: Engage with Stanford through our virtual Information Sessions and Student Forum Panel Discussions. See details As tours resume on campus, Stanford's undergraduate informational programming for prospective undergraduate students remains completely virtual at least through the month of April. April and May sessions are now available for online registration. The Discover Stanford information session is paired with one of our popular "Online Student Forum" panel discussions. The Online Student Forum provides a live opportunity to hear from and ask questions of current students about all aspects of the Stanford undergraduate experience. Registration for these programs is located under the "Engage" tab at admission.stanford.edu. A link to our popular 360° video tour of the central campus can be viewed at any time. The 13-minute tour (linked just below on this site) is narrated by multiple Stanford undergraduates and is a completely immersive experience when watched on a mobile device! Please note the following regarding the status of visiting the physical Stanford campus: In accordance with campus safety guidelines in response to COVID-19 and its variants, all of the Visitor Center's on-campus (in person) information sessions and programs remain suspended at this time; the Visitor Center and Office of Undergraduate Admission locations remain closed as well. General visitors can review this website for more information about Stanford. We also strongly recommend downloading the free and highly useful Stanford Mobile app for University information, updates, and services. Experience Stanford Stanford 360° Virtual Tour Welcome admitted students and all future applicants! Events Events at Stanford Newsletter Subscribe to a free monthly email featuring upcoming events and activities. Stanford for You Current Weather Stanford Station Online Resources Virtual Tours Stanford Mobile App Related Sites Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Contact Us Connect with us Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.