Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Visitor Center FAQ Contact Us Related Links Tours Virtual Yale Directions Lodging New Haven Handsome Dan XIX Yale University Visitor Center The Mead Visitor Center is the front door of the University and welcomes its visitors from around the world. It is located at 149 Elm Street New Haven, CT 06511, across the street from the New Haven Green. Visitors can make reservations for guided tours led by Yale College undergraduates. Register here for a campus tour In accordance with Yale University’s policies, COVID-19 vaccination (including booster, if eligible) is required for visitors five and older. You may be asked to present proof of vaccination. Groups of 10 or more visiting the campus are required to schedule a private tour. All private tour company groups, regardless of size, are require to schedule a private tour. Private tours tours are available for a fee by appointment. Read about making accessible tour accommodations. Visit our Virtual Yale tab to see a wide array of online offerings. Enjoy a Yale concert, lecture, or gallery tour from the comfort of your own home. News Students compete to share their love of Yale as campus tour guides The hottest student job on campus features a huge audience, an expansive workplace, and very challenging odds: 10 to 1 against getting hired, because a lot of people vie for... Hours & Tours Visitor Center Hours Monday–Friday: 9 a.m. – 4 p.m. Guided Tours Reservations required Explore our Tours Tours! Exhibits! Merchandise! Explore Yale by taking a guided tour Experience virtual tours of the Yale Campus and Yale’s West Campus Prospective undergraduate student tour information Visit our exhibits Buy Yale Merchandise What's Happening...Virtual Yale Commencement 2021: Yale College Class Day Featuring Robert Lopez ’97 The 2021 Yale Class Day program, delivered virtually, features the Class Day address by Robert Lopez, Yale College Class of 1997. View all happenings Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 149 Elm Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · Email: visitorcenter@yale.edu Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube