Visit home Find your way Discover Ohio State Experience Columbus Stay and dine Discover Ohio State For 150 years, The Ohio State University's campus in Columbus has been the stage for academic achievement and a laboratory for innovation. It's where friendships are forged. It's where rivalries and revelry are born. The university's main campus is one of America's largest and most comprehensive. As Ohio's best and one of the nation's top-20 public universities, Ohio State is further recognized by a top-rated academic medical center and a premier cancer hospital and research center. As a land-grant university, Ohio State has a physical presence throughout the state, with campuses and research centers located around Ohio. Prospective Students Walking Tour Virtual Tour Stadium Tour Wexner Center Tour Four ways to explore Ohio State Upcoming events Across the state As a land-grant university, Ohio State has a physical presence throughout the state, with campuses and research centers located around Ohio. Miles from Columbus Agricultural Technical Institute - Tab to navigate through more info 96 mi | Visit Agricultural Technical Institute The Ohio State University Agricultural Technical Institute located in Wooster, Ohio, is an associate degree-granting program within the College of Food, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences. The curriculum includes general and basic studies that are applied and technical courses, and a paid industry internship. The university’s Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center is adjacent to the campus. Columbus - Tab to navigate through more info 0 mi | Visit Columbus The Columbus campus offers more than 200 areas of study and 492 specializations, and its location in the heart of the nation’s 15th largest city means great opportunities for students and graduates. Lima - Tab to navigate through more info 86 mi | Visit Lima Located on a 565-acre campus 80 miles south of Toledo, Ohio State Lima offers nine bachelors degree programs and four degree completion programs. Nine of eleven programs are four-year programs at Lima. Two of them are baccalaureate completion programs. Students find a unique campus spirit with a truly personalized academic experience. Mansfield - Tab to navigate through more info 75 mi | Visit Mansfield Nestled among 640 acres of scenic woodlands, The Ohio State University at Mansfield has become a destination of choice for aspiring Buckeyes throughout Northeast Ohio. Students may choose among nine bachelor’s degrees offered on campus. Masters and associate degrees can also be completed at the Mansfield Campus. Marion - Tab to navigate through more info 51 mi | Visit Marion Located 45 miles north of the Columbus campus, Marion offers 10 degree completion programs. Students may take part in undergraduate research, community outreach, study abroad, service learning, internships and honors coursework. Newark - Tab to navigate through more info 42 mi | Visit Newark Ohio State Newark allows students to take part in undergraduate research, community outreach, study abroad, service learning, internships, honors coursework and more. With faculty that are experts in their fields of study, Ohio State Newark is a great place to start working toward a degree or to go back and finish your educational goals. Six undergraduate majors can be completed at Ohio State Newark. Stone Lab - Tab to navigate through more info 120 mi | Visit Stone Lab Stone Laboratory is the oldest freshwater biological field station in the United States and the center of Ohio State University’s teaching and research on Lake Erie. The lab serves as a base for more than 65 researchers from 12 agencies and academic institutions, all working year-round to solve the most pressing problems facing the Great Lakes. Mobile App Give Today © 2019 | Student Academic Services Building | 281 W. Lane Ave. | Columbus, Ohio 43210 | 614-292-OHIO Contact: Admissions | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | About this site | Nondiscrimination notice