Skip to content Visitor Information Optional line 2 - add two-line-signature to body class to display Menu Search form Search term Home The Basics Prospective Students Explore Campus Related sites... Community Engagement Explore Campus Self-Guided Tours and Virtual Experiences Explore the Stanford campus in person and online with virtual experiences and self-guided tours. Interactive map Virtual Campus Walk Follow the path for a virtual self-guided walking tour featuring photos and information about many sites of central campus. Explore map Interactive 360° video tour Student-narrated 360° tour Take a 360° guided video tour of the Stanford University campus. A virtual welcome to The Farm hosted by Stanford students. Explore video tour Self-Guided Tour Self-Guided Tour Map—Stanford Campus Shows Visitor Center, self-guided tour route, points of interest with descriptions, and photo locations. Also includes additional options, such as the Arts District, Athletics District, and Campus Residences. Download map Self-Guided Tour Stanford Athletics District Self-guided tour of the Stanford Athletics District fields and facilities. The tour starts at the Stanford Visitor Center and ends at the Home of Champions, with suggestions for additional places to visit along the way. Download the self-guided tour document Self-Guided Tour Stanford Arts District and Other Arts Facilities The vibrant Arts District now marks the entrance to campus on either side of Palm Drive. World class museums, a premier concert hall, and expansive academic space dedicated to Art & Art History have joined other existing campus venues to create a thriving home for the arts at Stanford. Download map Self-Guided Tour Self-Guided Tour of Stanford Gardens Welcome to Stanford! Those who work and study on this beautiful campus are fortunate to enjoy a variety of diverse gardens with an ever-changing palette of colors, scents, and animal visitors. If you love gardens and trees, Stanford is an excellent place to experience them. Download the self-guided tour document Campus Destinations to Explore Main Quad and Memorial Court Frederick Law Olmsted planned and designed the Quad in Richardson Romanesque and Mission Revival architectural style. The Quad holds Stanford’s 12 original classrooms from its opening in 1891. Today it houses the School of Humanities & Sciences and is home to many Stanford traditions, such as Senior Dinner on the Quad for graduating seniors. Memorial Court is the main entrance to the Main Quad from Palm drive and features several sculptures by Auguste Rodin. See Memorial Court on the campus map Campus Destinations to Explore The Oval and Palm Drive The Oval and Palm Drive mark the gateway to the University. The Oval serves as a relaxing spot for students, faculty, and community members to have picnics, play volleyball, and enjoy the California weather. Palm Drive, lined with roughly 150 Canary Island palm trees, leads to University Avenue and downtown Palo Alto. See the Oval on the campus map Campus Destinations to Explore Hoover Tower Completed in 1941, Hoover Tower is part of the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution, and Peace. It is named for Herbert Hoover, the 31st president of the United States, who graduated in Stanford’s Pioneer Class of 1895. The first nine floors of the 285-foot (87-meter) building house over 1.6 million volumes on social, political, and economic change in the 20th and 21st centuries. The Observation Platform on the 14th floor offers an aerial view of the campus and much of the Bay Area. Note: Hoover Tower is not currently open to the public. Visit Hoover Tower Campus Destinations to Explore Stanford Dish See gorgeous views of campus and the bay on this 3.5-mile trail. No pets or animals allowed within the Dish Area except trained service animals. Walk the Dish Campus Destinations to Explore Memorial Church Explore all there is to know about the history of the church and beyond, including information on how to visit. Explore Memorial Church Campus Destinations to Explore Stanford Family Mausoleum and Angel of Grief Visit the Stanford Mausoleum area to see the Stanford Family Mausoleum; the Stanford Family statue; the Angel of Grief. Read about the mausoleum area Campus Destinations to Explore Papua New Guinea Sculpture Garden This garden contains 40 wood and stone carvings of people, animals, and magical beings that illustrate creation stories and cultural traditions. Ten artists from the inland Sepik River area created the sculptures on-site during a five-month visit in 1994. Watch video about the sculpture garden Campus Destinations to Explore Arizona Cactus Garden The garden, also known as the Cactus Garden, was designed for Jane and Leland Stanford by landscape architect Rudolf Ulrich between 1881 and 1883. During the early years of the university, the Cactus Garden became the meeting place for many courting Stanford students. Learn more about the Arizona Garden Interactive virtual story map Garden Tour Discover the location of each garden on campus, including descriptions of the history, features, and notable plants. See tours Campus Destinations to Explore Terman Fountain Visit a new fountain on campus. This is a popular location for students to wade and relax in while on campus. See Terman Fountain on the campus map Campus Destinations to Explore Meyer Green Stanford's newest open space features curving walkways and gentle grassy slopes surrounded by groves of eucalyptus and cedar. See Meyer Green on the campus map Campus Destinations to Explore Lake Lagunita It may be dry, but Lake Lagunita is still a beautiful pace to go for a run, walk or just enjoy the view. Read about Lake Lagunita Slideshow virtual tour Science and Engineering Quad Situated on an east-west axis with the historic Main Quad, the Science and Engineering Quad is a popular destination for visitors. Watch slideshow Slideshow tour d.school Explore the building through our virtual tour slides featuring our classroom studios and student stories. Note: The d.school is not currently open for tours. View the slideshow Campus Destinations to Explore Stanford Bookstore Purchase some Stanford swag while on campus. Visit the bookstore website for open hours and more information. Stanford Bookstore website Virtual exhibits Stanford Libraries Online Exhibits These online exhibits showcase materials from Stanford Libraries used to support instruction and research, including photographs, audiovisual materials, publications, and maps and architectural drawings. View exhibits Video virtual tour School of Humanities and Sciences Virtual Tour The School of Humanities and Sciences, encompassing 23 departments and 25 interdisciplinary programs, is the foundation of a liberal arts education at Stanford. This virtual video tour will give you a taste of our beautiful spaces and offerings. View virtual tour Video Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve Jasper Ridge Biological Preserve (JRBP) is located near Stanford University's campus in the eastern foothills of the Santa Cruz Mountains. Experience this beautiful preserve virtually and learn how the field station provides undergraduate educational experiences and plays an active role in educating the general public. Watch video Video tours and virtual exhibits Archaeology Collections These videos and exhibits highlight the Stanford University Archaeology Collections and a special student-led exhibit on a 20th century Northwest Coast collection, a project that takes place each year as part of the Archaeology Center's Museum Cultures course. See tours Slideshow presentation Cultivating Community Through Campus Planning A virtual tour of the past, present, and future of Stanford architecture, landscape, and planning. Discover popular and unseen parts of the campus and the thought processes and values behind their evolution. Watch presentation Updated on March 9, 2022 8:16 AM Online Resources Virtual Tours Stanford Mobile App Related Sites Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Contact Us Connect with us Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.