Show Navigation Skip to Content University of Southern California Visit USC On Campus Tours Events Maps and Directions Register Guests Search for: Search Welcome to USC USC’s beautiful and historic University Park campus is a great destination for visitors to Los Angeles. This video offers a preview of what’s in store when you come to campus–classic architecture, park-like grounds, museums, cafés, entertainment and more. On Campus USC’s two primary campuses, both located in the heart of Los Angeles, welcome thousands of guests and visitors each year. The 229-acre University Park campus, home to the USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School, and most of USC’s professional schools, is adjacent to Exposition Park with its world-class museums and recreational facilities. A few miles to the northeast is the 79-acre Health Sciences campus, home to the Keck School of Medicine of USC and the School of Pharmacy as well as three major teaching hospitals. Tours USC offers a variety of tours to acquaint you with diverse aspects of the campus and the university. Our Admission Center Tours introduce you to campus via a guided walk, or you are welcome to explore on your own with the help of our self-guided tours. Whether you’re looking for a general tour or a focused encounter with art and architecture, athletic facilities or hidden treasures on campus, USC will illuminate your exploration. Campus Photos For more, visit the USC Photo Gallery. Los Angeles USC neighbors include world-renowned cultural institutions and sports and entertainment venues. Neighborhood Information Discover Los Angeles: LA Tourism and Convention Board USC Trojan Athletics—Schedules and Ticket Information Los Angeles Convention Center Los Angeles Times Culture Monster Events From sports to performing arts to citywide cultural festivals, USC hosts a full and dynamic calendar of events. USC Communications / Notice of Non-Discrimination / Privacy Notice To comply with Los Angeles County Department of Public Health guidance, visitors to USC campuses must follow all university guidelines. Your compliance will help protect our campus community in preventing the spread of COVID-19.