Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Visitors Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Tours Directions & Maps Accommodations Campus Highlights Visitors Center You are here: Home Why US-EU Cooperation is More Important Now Than Ever Events Current and Upcoming Why US-EU Cooperation is More Important Now Than Ever Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 2, 2022 1:00 PM - 2:00 PM America/New_York Online Event Zoom Webinar This Center on Global Economic Governance program features an address by Ambassador Anthony L. Gardner, Why US-EU Cooperation is More Important Now Than Ever. Ambassador Gardner will discuss the importance of continued collaboration between the two leaders of democracy with special reference to sanctions on Russia for the War in Ukraine, and discussion of how the US and the EU need to align on China, especially in trade and tech. Moderator: Jan Svejnar, Director, Center on Global Economic Governance and Richard N. Gardner Professor of Economics and International Affairs, Columbia University The event is part of The Annual Ambassador Donald and Vera Blinken Lecture Series on Global Governance, which focuses on the future of European politics, economics, and foreign relations. Speaker Biography: Anthony Gardner is a Managing Partner in Brookfield’s Private Equity Group, responsible for investment origination, analysis and execution in Europe. Prior to joining Brookfield in 2020, Mr. Gardner served on the board of Brookfield Business Partners. He previously served as U.S. Ambassador to the European Union, spent several years on the leadership team of Palamon Capital Partners, and in the leveraged finance and M&A groups of Bank of America and GE Capital, respectively. He has also worked at international law firms in London, Paris, New York and Brussels. Mr. Gardner holds a Master of Finance degree from London Business School, a Juris Doctor degree from Columbia Law School, a Master of Philosophy degree from Oxford University and a Bachelor of Arts degree from Harvard University. He is also a member of the board of Iberdrola S.A. He is the author of Stars with Stripes: the Essential Partnership between the United States and the European Union, published by Palgrave MacMillan 2020. Contact Information Center on Global Economic Governance [email protected] Upcoming Events Visitors Center213 Low Library, 535 W. 116th St. · New York, NY 10027 HoursMonday-Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Phone 212-854-4900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close