Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Contact Us For directions on how to get to Corvallis and the Oregon State University campus, as well as information about parking on campus, please click here. Feel free to contact our office if you have any additional questions. We're always happy to help however we can. General Email: [email protected] Please note the Welcome Center's campus-based operations will pause during winter break and/or university holidays. Business Hours: Monday through Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Pacific Time Main Phone: 541-737-2626 Welcome Center Staff Directory: Natalie Rooney (she/her/hers) Associate Director Email: [email protected] natalie_rooney_headshot.jpg About Natalie: Natalie serves as the associate director of admissions in the Welcome Center, overseeing daily operations of on-campus recruitment visits and programs for prospective undergraduate students. Natalie earned her Bachelor of Journalism degree from the University of Missouri, her master's degree in higher education at University of South Carolina, and she is currently pursuing her PhD in adult & higher education here at Oregon State. Natalie has worked at OSU since 2015, and in her free time she enjoys trail running, yoga and attending OSU athletic events to cheer on the Beavs! --- Zoie Inouye (she/her/hers) Program Coordinator, Group Visits Email: [email protected] zoie_inouye_headshot.jpg --- Haley Okamoto (she/her/hers) TOUR Program Coordinator Email: [email protected] About Haley: Haley Okamoto (she/her) serves as the TOUR Program Coordinator. Haley was born and raised on the island of Kauaʻi in Hawaiʻi and attended Portland State University for undergrad. After graduating from PSU in 2020 with her degree in Communication Studies, she joined Beaver Nation in the fall of 2021. Haley oversees daily operations with the Welcome Center as well as the TOUR Ambassador program. haley_okamoto_headshot.jpg Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation