Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Current TOUR Ambassadors Meet our Team of Undergraduate Recruiters, better known as TOUR Ambassadors! We're here to help you get to know Oregon State. From academics to student life, TOUR Ambassadors share their knowledge and love for Beaver Nation through a student's perspective. Visit campus in-person or virtually, meet the TOUR Ambassadors, and let us show you what Oregon State has to offer. group-websize.jpg How to Become an Oregon State TOUR Ambassador Are you a current Oregon State undergraduate student and passionate about Beaver Nation? OSU Tour Ambassadors are hired every winter term and participate in a spring term training prior to beginning official employment! Applications are closed for the winter 2022 hiring process. If you are interested in receiving an email to notify you when we open up hiring for winter 2023, please fill out this survey. Information about the TOUR Ambassador position: The Office of Admissions employs qualified, currently enrolled undergraduate students as paid TOUR Ambassadors. Ambassadors are often the first point of contact for prospective students and families. TOUR Ambassadors conduct prospective student visit program components including campus and housing tours, virtual campus tours, student panels, group visits, represent OSU during recruiting events and large visit programs, and work weekly office hours at the Welcome Center. All visit programs are conducted both in-person and virtually. Student employees can expect to work a range of hours (between 4-20 hours per week) that is flexible with and supports their academic priorities. There are additional opportunities for ambassadors to attend off-campus recruitment events and multicultural recruitment events as interested. Successful candidates enjoy working with people, have a wide range of life experiences and an eagerness to promote Oregon State University to prospective students and their family members. Bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply. Questions? Email Natalie Rooney (Associate Director, Visit Programs) at [email protected]. What do I need to apply to be a TOUR Ambassador? Job applications are open during the first month of winter term. When applications are open, here are the materials we will typically ask you to submit along with your job application: A resume. On your resume, be sure to include: hometown and state/country, major and any options or minors, current academic standing (freshman, sophomore, etc.), GPA, expectation graduation term/year, any work experience you have, campus and community involvement, internships and/or study abroad experiences (if applicable) A cover letter. In your letter, indicate how your qualifications and experience have prepare you for this position. Address why you chose to attend OSU, why you're interested in being a TOUR Ambassador and what you hope to gain from this experience. Share any special qualities and/or work experience you will bring to the position. Short answers to supplemental questions. Most questions are simple one sentence responses, some questions allow you to write up to 1-2 paragraphs maximum. Supplemental questions can be found at the bottom of the job application. Remember that OSU's Career Development Center has resources to help you prepare your resume and cover letter. Check out their website for these support resources as you work on your application! Meet our Current Ambassadors Aaron M. Civil Engineering | Phoenix, OR Chara K. Interior Design | `Ewa Beach, HI Danny L. Natural Resources & Sustainability | Torrance, CA Destinee R. Microbiology w/ Pre-Med | Madras, OR Devyn H. Animal Sciences w/ Pre-Vet | Ellie A. Molecular Biology w/ Pre-Med | Salt Lake City, UT Emily M. Music | Portland, OR Eve S. Environmental Science & Psychology | Portland, OR Geo P. Creative Writing | San Diego, CA Grace W. History & Religious Studies | Elkton, OR Hugh F. Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering | Tigard, OR Isabel G. Bioengineering | Lake Oswego Jaycee I. BioHealth Science | Hilo, HI Joseph B. Business Administration | Waipahu, HI Justin V. Kinesiology | Oldsmar, FL Kate C. Business Management | Fremont, CA Kelli N. Business Administration | Kaneohe, HI Lauren A. Accounting | Honolulu, HI Maria D. BioHealth Science | Tigard, OR Max P. Accountancy & Business Information Systems | University Place, WA Nain G. Management & Supply Chain Management | Astoria, OR Nina B. Ecological Engineering | Seattle, WA Paige S. Chemical Engineering | Olympia, WA Riley L. Kinesiology | Vancouver, WA Ruben L. Jr. Animal Sciences & BioResource Research | Hermiston, OR Satine R. Animal Sciences & Business Management | Salem, OR Shyanti F. Human Development and Family Sciences | Kihei, HI Tess D. Design and Innovation Management & Apparel Design | Smithfield, RI Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation