Visit home Find your way Discover Ohio State Experience Columbus Stay and dine Future Student or Parent Alumnus Future Faculty or Staff Event Attendee or Special Guest Fan Patient or Visitor Our websites and viewbooks are no match for the real thing. Visiting campus is the best way to get to know (and love) us. Future freshman and transfer students Admissions overview and campus tour: Undergraduate Admissions offers overview and tour programs tailored to prospective and admitted undergraduates and their families. Schedule a visit Group tours: Tours for groups of 10 or more can be arranged for prospective undergraduate students, high school groups and access groups. Request a group tour Overviews by academic interest: Some of Ohio State’s academic programs offer information sessions, open houses and career days. You can explore the options when you schedule a tour at campusvisit.osu.edu. Future graduate and professional students Campus visits are coordinated directly by the academic programs. For contact information, find your program. For group tours, email gpadmissions@osu.edu. Buckeye for life The Ohio State University Alumni Association is made up of more than half a million alumni living worldwide. The alumni association has a global presence through more than 50 societies and 200 local and international clubs that show how firm alumni friendship is for Ohio State. No matter how many miles separate you from Ohio State, there are many ways to stay engaged. Here you can reconnect with former classmates; explore career, travel and volunteer opportunities; share your latest news; and register for events. Explore opportunities Become a sustaining member A top university and an award-winning employer Ohio State faculty and staff contribute in significant ways to transform themselves and the world. More than 40,000 faculty and staff members play important roles in advancing the mission of Ohio State. Whether you teach students, care for patients, perform research or provide professional services, Ohio State offers something for nearly everyone to make a meaningful difference. As a member of the Buckeye community, you are poised for an exciting future at an outstanding institution that is rich in tradition. Want to work at Ohio State? Learn more about careers at the university. Explore career opportunities New to Ohio State? Learn about the university and benefits offered to you. Start your career Events for every interest From commencement to lectures, shows to exhibits, Ohio State offers a variety of events year-round. Whether you're a planner or happen to stroll through campus, we have events for you. There is always something happening at Ohio State. Want to host an event at Ohio State? Click here for planning resources. Events across campus Visitor parking O-H! Ohio State is home to the best fans in the land. With nearly 40 varsity teams and the third largest college football stadium in the nation, there are a lot of Buckeyes out there planning to attend the next big matchup. Join us in cheering on the scarlet and gray. Buy tickets Fan information Health care that goes beyond routine Trust our team of 20,000 experts in patient care, research, and medical education. Ohio State is home to one of the largest health sciences campuses in the world. More than 1.5 million healthcare interactions happen here every year, and every day our world-renowned physician researchers are reinventing cardiovascular care, advancing the application of diagnostic imaging, unlocking the mysteries of the brain, and creating targeted cancer therapies that will get us closer to a cancer-free world. Yet we offer our patients and their families the personalized experience of a community hospital. It’s why our patients and employees choose Ohio State, and why we’ve been ranked for decades among the nation’s best hospitals and cancer centers. Visit Ohio State's Wexner Medical Center Visit the James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute Find your way Tours The student-led tours visit areas of interest to prospective undergraduate students, including a residence hall, dining facility, library and classroom. Virtual tour Use this self-guided, virtual tour to explore popular spots across campus. Along the way, you’ll learn about Ohio State’s unique history and traditions. Interactive map This interactive campus map allows you to find parking and other transportation, campus buildings, student services and amenities. Directions Maps Columbus: Start the journey here From #new2OSU to #BuckeyeForLife… Hidden gems on campus Hayes Hall Hayes Hall, another one of the oldest buildings on campus, is the place on campus where generations of Buckeyes have shared secrets via the “whispering arch” facing the Oval. Hayes Hall 0 Howlett Hall The 12,000 square-foot green roof at Howlett Hall was the first publicly accessible green roof at Ohio State and in Columbus, Ohio overall. The roof was installed by Chadwick Arboretum and Learning Gardens in 2013, and serves as a demonstration site of green roofs in Ohio. Green Roof at Howlett Hall 1 Ohio Union View a piece of college football history on the second floor of the Ohio Union, where Archie Griffin’s 1975 Heisman Trophy – his second – is on display. The Ohio Union building also features Ohio history depicted in limestone carvings on its southern facade. Archie Griffin’s 1975 Heisman Trophy 2 Orton Hall One of the oldest buildings on campus, Orton Hall is home to the Orton Geological Museum, which houses 30,000 specimens including the skull of a Jurassic dinosaur. It also houses the Orton Chimes, 12 bells that play Westminster Chimes on the quarter hour. Orton Hall 3 Ohio State Planetarium Visitors to the Ohio State Planetarium can zip around the world and galaxy without ever leaving the comfort of one of the 60 high-backed seats. Some planetarium programs - which are led by knowledgeable graduate students - use the powerful, computer-controlled telescope to observe exciting astronomical objects up close. Ohio State Planetarium 4 Home of Robert Neil The Ohio State campus was a part of the Underground Railroad in the mid-1800s. The last stop on the escapees route through OSU was the home of Robert Neil, at the corner of Indianola and 15th avenues, which is the home of Kappa Sigma today. There, they were directed toward Lake Erie – and freedom. Home of Robert Neil 5 University Archives The Ohio State University Archives preserves Buckeye history and makes it available to all who visit its headquarters on Kenny Road. In addition to more than 2 million photographic images of university life from 1870 to present, the archives contain documents, records and mementos that are part of the Ohio State story. University Archives 6 University Hall Completed in 1873, University Hall was Ohio State’s original one-stop shop. It housed everything – the library, classrooms, a chapel, a male dormitory and faculty apartments. University Hall 7 PATIENT AND VISITOR GUIDE Wexner Medical Center and The James EVENTS Whether you’re a planner or happen to stroll through campus, we have events for you. STAY AND DINE Find the best hotels, meeting facilities and dining for casual visitors or large groups. OHIO STATE APP Get easy access to everything Ohio State offers, from viewing your grades to finding the nearest pizza shop. It’s free! Across the state As a land-grant university, Ohio State has a physical presence throughout the state, with campuses and research centers located around Ohio. Agricultural Technical Institute Columbus Lima Mansfield Marion Newark Stone Lab Mobile App Give Today © 2019 | Student Academic Services Building | 281 W. Lane Ave. | Columbus, Ohio 43210 | 614-292-OHIO Contact: Admissions | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | About this site | Nondiscrimination notice