Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Visitor Services Toggle navigation Site Menu Home Admissions Tallahassee Directions Videos Connect With Us Home Group Tours Group Tours What is a group tour? Group Tour requests should be submitted for groups larger than 10 people traveling together. How can you schedule a Group Tour? Due to the limited spaces available to social distance and keep our groups safe while visiting, the Visitor Center is not currently scheduling in-person Group Tours of campus. We apologize for any inconvenience and hope to have you on our campus soon. If you have any additional questions regarding Group Tours, please email visit@fsu.edu. Self-Guided Tour Options You're welcome to visit campus on your own if you still plan to visit Tallahassee. Seeing campus and the surrounding areas will give your group a glimpse into student life at Florida State University. There are a number of ways you can organize your self-guided tour. We've listed a few helpful resources below to help you plan your day on campus. Visitor Parking Standard sized vehicles such as cars, SUVs or vans should plan to park in Visitor Parking while on campus. Our Directions page will give you more information about how to find the Visitor Center as well as other visitor parking options around campus. Campus Map We recommend you use our online campus map throughout your visit. This map's interactive menu allows you to select specific topics to view exactly the areas that interest you most. For example, University Housing, academic buildings, campus recreation, public safety, transportation and more. Meals on Campus Seminole Dining manages several restaurants and dining halls around campus. If you would like to dine on campus during your visit, please contact our Legacy Catering Team to make reservations. Tallahassee If time permits during your visit, we also recommend you explore the city of Tallahassee. The Visit Tallahassee website has a lot of wonderful resources to help you discover our capital city. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement Campus Map FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Tallahassee Campus Safety Publications Events Calendar Weather Majors and Academic Maps Student Life Diversity & Inclusion University Housing Seminole Dining Athletics Office of Accessibility Services Title IX Professional Licensure Upcoming Events Contact Visitor Services 288 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Phone: 850.644.3246 Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Email: visit@fsu.edu Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright