Skip to main content Florida State University This is your Donation message. Log In This Site FSU Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Submit Submit Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Giving Visitor Services Toggle navigation Site Menu Home Admissions Tallahassee Directions Videos Connect With Us Home Visit Campus Visit Campus Self-Guided Tour Make the most of your self-guided tour. Get started here If you're unable to join us for an in-person-guided tour, we invite you to explore campus on your own using our Self-Guided Tour App. HERE'S HOW IT WORKS Step 1: Download the free, self-guided tour app for Apple/iOS or Android. Step 2: Choose one of our premade tours or create a personalized tour based on your interests. The app will use your location on campus to provide walking directions from stop to stop. You can view additional photos, videos and helpful information about each stop through the app. To enhance your self-guided tour, we've listed a few helpful resources below to help you plan your time on campus. Visitor Transportation and Parking Go to FSU's Office of Transportation and Parking Services website for more information about Visitor Parking and our Seminole Express Bus System. Campus Resources In addition to our self-guided tour app which will provide turn by turn directions across campus, we recommend using our online campus map as well. There are several campus dining locations where students can use their optional meal plan. Guests are welcome to dine at any of these locations while visiting campus. Tallahassee If time permits during your visit, we also recommend you explore the city of Tallahassee. The Visit Tallahassee website has a lot of wonderful resources to help you discover our capital city. Quick Links Seminole Tribe Land Acknowledgement Campus Map FSU Highlights Apply Online Visit Tallahassee Campus Safety Publications Events Calendar Weather Majors and Academic Maps Student Life Diversity & Inclusion University Housing Seminole Dining Athletics Office of Accessibility Services Title IX Professional Licensure Upcoming Events Contact Visitor Services 288 Champions Way Tallahassee, FL 32306-2400 Phone: 850.644.3246 Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Eastern Time Email: visit@fsu.edu Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright