Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Visitor Center FAQ Contact Us Related Links Tours Virtual Yale Directions Lodging New Haven Handsome Dan XIX Home > FAQ Frequently Asked Questions How long does the tour take? The Yale campus tour takes approximately 1 hour. Do I need to register in advance of the tour? Yes, registration is required for our public campus tours. Please register here. In accordance with Yale University’s policies, COVID-19 vaccination (including booster, if eligible) is required for visitors five and older. You may be asked to present proof of vaccination. All groups of 10 or more are required to schedule a private tour. To schedule a private tour for your group please submit a tour request by calling 203-432-2300. What time are the campus tours? Reservations are required. Visitor Center tours leave from 149 Elm Street. At some times of the year the Yale Undergraduate Admissions office also runs campus tours for prospective students. Their tours are specifically designed for prospective students. Please visit the Admissions website for additional information. Can groups arrange for campus tours? Yes. The Visitor Center welcomes special group tours. There is a charge of $50 per guide and one guide is appropriate for up to 25 people. Groups of 10 or more are required to schedule a private tour. All private tour company groups, regardless of size, are require to schedule a private tour. Please request your tour by calling 203-432-2300. Can accommodations be made for listening devices? The Yale Visitor Center wants to make certain that individuals with special needs will be able to access all of the programs and tours scheduled through the center. If you or a member of your group believe that they will require a specific accommodation, please notify the visitor center as soon as possible. Accommodations such as assistive listening devices and interpreters may be arranged by contacting the office at 203-432-2302. Please make this request at least two weeks in advance of the date needed. Did You Know... The Visitor Center offers interesting exhibits about Yale. More about our Exhibits Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 149 Elm Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · Email: visitorcenter@yale.edu Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube