Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Visitor Center FAQ Contact Us Related Links Tours Virtual Yale Directions Lodging New Haven Handsome Dan XIX Home > Tours Tours Guided Tours Tour schedule Reservations required In accordance with Yale University’s policies, COVID-19 vaccination (including booster, if eligible) is required for visitors five and older. You may be asked to present proof of vaccination. Yale College students provide a glimpse into the history and architecture of the University. The tours start at the Yale Visitor Center at 149 Elm Street New Haven, CT 06511. Hear about Yale’s rich 300-year history and aspects of student life at several of Yale’s fourteen residential colleges. The tour also includes the Gothic Sterling Memorial Library, Yale’s largest, and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. Constructed with more than one hundred panels of translucent marble, the Beinecke is home to one of the world’s preeminent collections of rare materials, including the Gutenberg Bible. Tours depart from the Visitor Center (149 Elm Street), cover the central campus area, and last approximately 1 hour (registration is required). Register here for a campus tour Groups of 10 or more visiting the campus are required to schedule a private tour (see below). All private tour company groups, regardless of size, are required to schedule a private tour. Please note that the Visitor Center does not offer information sessions. Information sessions are coordinated by the Undergraduate Admissions Office. Student Tours for Prospective Undergraduates Please note that the Visitor Center provides campus tours that are geared toward a broad audience of visitors. Undergraduate Admissions also provides separate tours. If you are a prospective undergraduate student you should consider attending an Undergraduate Admissions tour. Check the Admissions website for the prospective undergraduate tour schedule. Tour Accessibility The Yale Visitor Center wants to make certain that individuals with special needs will be able to access all of the programs and tours scheduled through the center. If you or a member of your group believe that they will require a specific accommodation, please notify the visitor center as soon as possible. Accommodations such as assistive listening devices and interpreters may be arranged by contacting the office at 203-432-2302. Please make this request at least 2 weeks in advance of the date needed. Private Tours/Special Groups by Appointment Groups of 10 or more visiting the campus are required to schedule a private tour which may be arranged according to their time schedule. All private tour company groups, regardless of size, are require to schedule a private tour. For each group of up to 25 people, there will be a $50 fee. Private tours may also be arranged for individuals or smaller groups. Tour requests may be made by calling 203-432-2300. In accordance with Yale University’s policies, COVID-19 vaccination (including booster, if eligible) is required for visitors five and older. You may be asked to present proof of vaccination. Virtual Tours Virtual Tours offer five different tour experiences you can choose from: Campus, Science, Engineering, Athletics, Residential Colleges. Take one or all of these tours and experience Yale. Take a virtual tour of Yale Campus. Yale Architecture, Public Art, Sustainability and Women at Yale You can explore information online at Architecture of Yale, Public Art at Yale, Sustainability at Yale and Women at Yale. Kids’ Architectural Treasure Hunt Parents taking the campus tour with children ages 6-11 can request a brochure that encourages the children to hunt for architectural details and designs. Online Tours We invite you to explore and enjoy our online tours: Architecture of Yale Public Art at Yale Sustainability at Yale Women at Yale We also offer Private/Special Group Tours. Take a Virtual Tour Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 149 Elm Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · Email: visitorcenter@yale.edu Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube