Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Group Visits groupvisits.jpg Please Note: Elementary and Middle School visits are now hosted by Precollege Programs. The Welcome Center at OSU can provide information and tours to prospective students about the options available at Oregon State University. We offer high school and transfer groups a 60-minute guided walking tour of campus and a general information session with a student panel (45 minutes). So as not to overwhelm the campus community, we prefer groups limit the number of participants to no more than 40. Larger groups may need special tour accommodations and such arrangements will be considered on a case-by-case basis. To provide you with the best possible visit, we request at least 21 days to make arrangements. The Welcome Center cannot accommodate more than two group visits per day. Group Visits are provided Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. during the year. The university is closed on New Years Day, MLK Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, 4th of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and the Friday after, and Christmas. For more information, please visit Frequently Asked Questions for Group Tours. Please click one of the following registration form links: For On-Campus Group Visits: High School or Community College Groups Middle School or Elementary School Groups (currently available for limited in-person registration) For Virtual Group Visits: High School or Community College Groups Middle School or Elementary School Groups (hosted by Precollege Programs) Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation