Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Visitor Center FAQ Contact Us Related Links Tours Virtual Yale Directions Lodging New Haven Handsome Dan XIX Home > Directions Directions The Visitor Center is located at 149 Elm Street, across the street from the New Haven Green. View directions to the Visitor Center. Interstate 95 From the north Connect to I-91 North in New Haven; take Exit 3 (Trumbull Street) and follow directions below for I-91. From the south Connect to I-91 North in New Haven (left exit); take Exit 3 (Trumbull Street) and follow directions below for I-91. Interstate 91 From the north or south Take Exit 3 (Trumbull Street). Stay in the middle lane and continue straight onto Trumbull Street to the fourth traffic light. Turn left onto Prospect Street and continue to the second traffic light. Turn left onto Elm Street. The Visitor Center is located on the left-hand side of the street, opposite the New Haven Green. Route 15 (Wilbur Cross/Merritt Parkways) From the north Take Exit 61. Drive south on Whitney Avenue for approximately five miles. Crossing Trumbull Street, Whitney Avenue becomes Temple Street. Continue on Temple Street to the first traffic light and turn right onto Grove Street. Continue on Grove Street one block and turn left onto College Street. Continue for 2 blocks and turn left onto Elm Street. The Visitor Center is located on the left-hand side of the street, opposite the New Haven Green. From the south Take Exit 57. Drive east on Route 34 (Derby Avenue) for approximately five miles past the Yale Athletic Fields. Turn left onto Route 10 North, Ella T. Grasso Boulevard. Proceed to the fifth traffic light and turn right onto Whalley Avenue. Whalley becomes Broadway in 1 mile, and Broadway becomes Elm Street in another .2 miles. Continue on Elm for 2-1/2 blocks. The Visitor Center is located on the left-hand side of the street, opposite the New Haven Green. Route 34 From the west Follow directions from Route 34 above (see Route 34, from the south directions). Visitors Coming by Plane Hartford/Springfield Bradley International Airport (BDL) is 53 miles from campus in Windsor Locks, CT. Tweed New Haven Airport is 10 minutes from the Yale campus by car or taxi. There is frequent limousine service from other major airports. Other airports: LaGuardia International Airport (LGA), 72 miles from campus in New York City, NY Kennedy International Airport (JFK), 80 miles from campus in New York City, NY Newark International Airport (EWR), 92 miles from campus in Newark, NJ Visitors Coming by Train At the New Haven railroad station, take a taxi to the Visitor Center. The taxi stand is located in front of Union Station. The Visitor Center is located at 149 Elm Street. Parking On-street metered parking convenient to the Visitor Center is available on Elm Street, and commercial parking facilities are located throughout the city. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved 149 Elm Street, New Haven, CT 06511 · Email: visitorcenter@yale.edu Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube