Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Traveling to Corvallis Traveling to Corvallis We are excited you are visiting Corvallis (#2 Friendliest College Town in the U.S.) and our amazing campus! Air Travel If you plan to fly, most people find Portland International Airport (PDX) the most convenient and cost effective option. PDX serves all major airlines (including international flights), offers all major rental car companies on site and allows app-based ridesharing (e.g. Uber, etc.). PDX is about 96 miles from Corvallis (roughly 1 hour and 38 minutes depending on traffic). If you are flying from a regional airport, the Eugene Airport (EUG) may be a good option for you. EUG is about 38 miles from Corvallis (roughly 45 minutes depending on traffic). EUG serves 6 regional carriers, offers all major rental car companies on site and allows app-based ridesharing. Airport Shuttles PDX: Groome Transportation Driving Directions From Interstate 5: Take exit 228, turn west onto Highway 34. Continue approximately 10 miles. Turn left at the large intersection following signs to Reser Stadium (Hwy 20/Hwy34/Philomath Blvd). Turn right on SW 26th and you have officially arrived on campus! For daily tours and individual visits, check in at the Welcome Center (GPS: 671 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331). For Fall Preview, Beaver Open House, and Spring Preview events, park in the parking garage (GPS: 725 SW 26th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331). Parking Complimentary parking for Welcome Center guests is provided via a virtual parking permit. You don't need to print anything ahead of time, you will simply input your car's license plate number to obtain the virtual permit. Registered visitors will receive an email prior to their visit day with detailed instructions on how to obtain their virtual permit once they arrive on campus for their visit day. Visitors can park in floors 1-3 of the parking garage, or in any B or C zones using the virtual permit. Click here for a campus parking map displaying the location of the parking garage and the zoned parking areas. The best GPS address to the parking garage is 661 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. When entering the parking garage, there are ADA parking spots to the left of the entrance. Navigating Corvallis If you are interested in checking out more of the town of Corvallis before or after your campus visit, we'd be happy to recommend local restaurants or shops to check out. Did you know that the city of Corvallis has fareless public transit to navigate the city, and we have a fareless Beaver Bus campus shuttle to navigate around OSU's campus? Visitors are welcome to use either of these services to make it easier to get to where you're going! Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation