Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Visitors Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Tours Directions & Maps Accommodations Campus Highlights Visitors Center You are here: Home Tours Tours Learn more about our history and vibrant campus community through our various campus tours! Prospective Undergraduate Tours Students interested in applying to Columbia College or The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science should visit the Undergraduate Admissions page. Explore the campus online through the Virtual Tour. Prospective undergraduate students with a break in their education of a year or more and students who wish to attend part-time should visit the School of General Studies page. Those interested in the Postbaccalaureate Premedical Program can find a schedule of tours and information sessions online. Prospective Graduate Student Tours For graduate information sessions, please contact the school directly. Guided Historical Tour Join this tour to learn more about the history, architecture and sculpture of Columbia and the Morningside Heights campus. Whether you're an amateur New York City historian or visiting campus for the first time, you will leave the tour knowing more about our storied past. Register here Middle School and Elementary School Group Tours Visiting campus with a group of students younger than ninth grade? This is the tour for you! Designed for our younger visitors, this 45-minute interactive tour offers an introduction to college and campus life with fun facts and novel perspectives. Please email [email protected] to sign up. Self-Guided Campus Tours Are you visiting campus on a weekend? Did you miss the guided historical tour? There is still a chance to explore campus through the eyes of an expert. Self-Guided Walking Tour Virtual Tour Due to University Policy, filming of our Information Sessions and Campus Tours is not permitted. Guests who do not comply with this policy will be asked to delete any unauthorized recordings. Visitors Center213 Low Library, 535 W. 116th St. · New York, NY 10027 HoursMonday-Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Phone 212-854-4900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close