Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home Visit Programs 0319_osufoundation_1153.jpg Oregon State University hosts a variety of prospective and admitted student programs on our campus throughout the academic year. These programs are designed to help you learn more about OSU and your opportunities here. We have three different types of program days, which you can learn more about below. We are closely monitoring COVID-19 case levels locally and nationally as we plan to host these events on our Corvallis campus. If we need to alter our plans and operations, we will notify registrants as soon as possible. We appreciate your understanding and flexibility as we continue to navigate the pandemic. If you're not able to join us on campus for our visit programs, we have plenty of live virtual events to help you learn more about Oregon State, our academic opportunities and what it's like to be a student here. Click here for a full listing of our different virtual events you can register for and attend from home! BEAVER OPEN HOUSES Beaver Open Houses are full-day fall programs that provide an in-depth look at Oregon State and what we have to offer. Take a student-led tour, check out the residence halls, learn about our academic majors and options, and meet some of our faculty and students. Fall 2022 Beaver Open House Dates: Saturday, October 8, 2022 Friday, October 14, 2022 Saturday, November 5, 2022 Friday, November 18, 2022 Registration for these programs will open by early September 2022. Please do not book travel (flights, car rentals, hotels, etc.) until you have registered for a program and receive the confirmation email. We have limited capacity in these programs due to space availability on campus, and we cannot add in students once a program reaches capacity! Sample Agenda *Please note this schedule is subject to change. This is a sample of an agenda from fall 2021. Morning Activities 8:00-10:00 a.m. Check-In Campus Tours [also available in Spanish] Transfer Student Campus Tours Welcome & Exploring OSU's Majors presentations 10:15-11:15 a.m. Academic Sessions Lunchtime Options 11:15-12:30 p.m. Residence Hall Open House [drop-in throughout the day] OSU Resources Fair Multicultural Mingle Lunch on your own Afternoon Sessions & Tours 12:30-1:45 p.m. Beaver Briefings [information sessions including admissions, scholarships/aid, honors college, housing and more] DAM Lectures [Demonstrative Academic Mock Lectures led by OSU faculty] 2:00-3:30 p.m. Campus Tours College Tours & Open Houses Special tours (Orange Media Network facilities, Horse Center [off-campus], etc.) as available Parking Free virtual parking permits are provided to our visitors for your program day. Registered visitors will receive email information about how to obtain your virtual parking permit a few days prior to your program date. Parking permits are only required Monday-Friday unless otherwise marked (i.e. service spots or reserved at all times spots), parking in these spots may result in a fine for the vehicle owner. For our fall 2021 Beaver Open House programs, we encourage visitors to park in the Reser Stadium parking lot, which is directly across from the LaSells Stewart Center (875 SW 26th St.). Detailed parking information will be emailed to registrants. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. Directions From Interstate 5, take exit 228, and turn west onto Highway 34. Continue approximately 10 miles. Turn left at the large intersection following signs to Reser Stadium (Hwy 20/Hwy34/Philomath Blvd). Turn right on SW 26th St., then turn left into the Reser Stadium parking lot. This lot is directly across from the LaSells Stewart Center (875 SW 26th St.). Once parked, look for TOUR Ambassadors and signs to direct you to program day check-in location, which will also be provided to you in your reminder emails for the program day. ORANGE & BLACK DAYS Orange & Black Days are our programs for admitted first-year and transfer students and their guests. This program will welcome you to Oregon State University and give you a closer look at OSU by connecting you with your future academic major, showcasing how you can get involved outside the classroom and how you can find community here as a student. Consider this a day to get all your questions about OSU answered to ensure we'll be the perfect fit for you! Winter/Spring 2023 Orange & Black Days: Monday, February 20, 2023 Saturday, March 18, 2023 Saturday, March 25, 2023 Friday, March 31, 2023 Friday, April 7, 2023 Registration for these programs will open in December 2022. Please do not book travel (flights, car rentals, hotels, etc.) until you have registered for a program and receive the confirmation email. We have limited capacity in these programs due to space availability on campus, and we cannot add in students once a program reaches capacity! Sample Agenda *Please note this schedule is subject to change. You will receive a printed, finalized agenda when you check-in on the program day. This is a sample from our spring 2022 Orange & Black Days. Orange & Black Day Agenda 8:00-8:30 a.m. Program check in Resource fair until 9 a.m. Campus tours offered until 8:15 a.m. (more tours offered throughout the day) 8:30 a.m.: Session for University Exploratory Studies Program admitted students 9:00-10:00 a.m. Welcome and next steps session for admitted freshmen and admitted transfer students 10:15-11:45 a.m. Connecting with your major: attend a session with the major/college you were admitted into; hear from deans, faculty, staff and current students; learn about research or involvement opportunities; get your questions answered 11:45 a.m.-1:15 p.m. Lunch on your own Campus tours offered (freshman tours, transfer tours, tour en español) Walk-through sample residence hall room offered until 4 p.m. 1:15-1:45 and 2:00-2:30 p.m. Beaver Briefings: choose 2 different sessions you'd like to attend to learn more about unique resources and support for students at OSU. Specific session options will be provided to you on your agenda when you check in this morning. 2:30 p.m. Session for admitted Honors College students Campus tours offered (freshman tours, transfer tours, tour en español) Walk-through sample residence hall room offered until 4 p.m. Other specialty tours offered as available (will be noted on agenda) Parking Free virtual parking permits are provided to our visitors for your program day. Registered visitors will receive email information about how to obtain your virtual parking permit a few days prior to your program date. Parking permits are only required Monday-Friday unless otherwise marked (i.e. service spots or reserved at all times spots), parking in these spots may result in a fine for the vehicle owner. For our Orange & Black Day programs, we encourage visitors to park in the Reser Stadium parking lot. Detailed parking information will be emailed to registrants. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. Directions From Interstate 5, take exit 228, and turn west onto Highway 34. Continue approximately 10 miles. Turn left at the large intersection following signs to Reser Stadium (Hwy 20/Hwy34/Philomath Blvd). Turn right on SW 26th St., then turn left into the Reser Stadium parking lot. This lot is directly across from the LaSells Stewart Center (875 SW 26th St.). Once parked, look for TOUR Ambassadors and signs to direct you to program day check-in location, which will also be provided to you in your reminder emails for the program day. SPRING PREVIEWS For high school students beginning their college search to apply for fall 2024 admission and for prospective transfer students, Spring Preview helps you learn the basics about Oregon State University! Spring 2023 Preview Date: Friday, April 14, 2023 Registration for these programs will open in January 2023. Please do not book travel (flights, car rentals, hotels, etc.) until you have registered for a program and receive the confirmation email. We have limited capacity in these programs due to space availability on campus, and we cannot add in students once a program reaches capacity! Sample Agenda *Please note this schedule is subject to change. This is a sample from the spring 2022 Spring Preview. 8:00-10:00 a.m. Program check-in 45-minute campus tours offered [also available in Spanish] until 9:15 a.m. Exploring Majors sessions (offered at 9:10, 9:40) 10:15-11:15 a.m.: Academic college presentations 11:15 a.m.-1:00 p.m.: Lunch on your own 45-minute campus tours offered [also available in Spanish] until 12:15 p.m. Residence hall sample room drop-in 1:00-2:15 p.m.: Beaver Briefings [informational sessions including admissions, scholarships/aid, Honors College, housing and more] 2:30-3:30 p.m.: Academic college tours Parking Free virtual parking permits are provided to our visitors for your program day. Registered visitors will receive email information about how to obtain your virtual parking permit a few days prior to your program date. Parking permits are only required Monday-Friday unless otherwise marked (i.e. service spots or reserved at all times spots), parking in these spots may result in a fine for the vehicle owner. Visitors can park in floors 1-3 of the parking garage, or in any B or C zones using the virtual permit. Click here for a campus parking map displaying the location of the parking garage and the zoned parking areas. The best GPS address to the parking garage is 661 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. When entering the parking garage, there are ADA parking spots to the left of the entrance. Directions From Interstate 5, take exit 228, and turn west onto Highway 34. Continue approximately 10 miles. Turn left at the large intersection following signs to Reser Stadium (Hwy 20/Hwy34/Philomath Blvd). Turn right on SW 26th St., then a right on SW Stadium Ave in 0.5 miles. Take the first left to continue onto SW Stadium Ave. Then continue straight to enter the parking garage and park in B or C zones on floors 1 through 3. Once parked, look for TOUR Ambassadors and signs to direct you to the Memorial Union, located on SW 26th St. and SW Jefferson Way. Check-in takes place on the main level of the Memorial Union. Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation