Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply You are here Home The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Visit Campus visit-campus_0.jpg Campus Visits We look forward to welcoming prospective students and families to campus for a visit! Visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit, and wearing a face covering for your own personal protection is always welcome in our campus spaces! Click here to register for a campus visit! Please note the Welcome Center's campus-based operations will pause during winter break and/or university holidays. Check out our visit registration calendar (orange button above) for information on which dates we have open for campus visits. Other Visits Opportunities Although these visit opportunities are not centrally coordinated by the OSU Welcome Center are are not an option in our above registration system, prospective students are encouraged to use the links below to find out how they can reach out and set up visits with these departments as interested: OSU Hatfield Marine Science Center located in Newport, OR OSU Carlson College of Veterinary Medicine located in Corvallis, OR Self-guided walking campus tour - this is a great option if you're visiting our OSU Corvallis campus outside of the Welcome Center's normal business hours (M-F, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Pacific) Current Campus Visit Guidelines The Welcome Center's campus visit operations are contingent upon local and state COVID-19 levels. As Corvallis moves between different COVID-19 risk levels, we may have to close down or alter our on-campus operations. Should this occur, campus visit registrants will be contacted via email as soon as possible. We ask that visitors cancel their visit registration if they feel ill/experience COVID-19 symptoms within 72 hours of their scheduled visit day. We also ask that visitors cancel their visit registration if they test positive for COVID-19 within 14 days of their scheduled visit day. During your campus visit, please listen to the guidance of OSU representatives while you are on campus and plan to follow the university's current COVID-19 guidance. While we appreciate "furry" family members, we ask that you please leave your pets at home. Animals, including emotional support animals, are not permitted inside OSU buildings which we walk through on tours. If you are bringing a trained service animal with you, please denote that in your visit registration in the "Disability Accommodations" section. Thank you! Campus Parking for your Visit Day Complimentary parking will be provided to all visitors who register for a campus visit! Oregon State University uses a virtual parking permit system, meaning that you don't need to print anything out ahead of time. All you need is your car's make, model, color and license plate information for the car you drive to campus! Registered visitors will receive emails with further instructions on how to obtain your virtual parking permit and directions to campus. Please register for a campus visit in order to receive these emails. Visitors can park in floors 1-3 of the parking garage, or in any B or C zones using the virtual permit. Click here for a campus parking map displaying the location of the parking garage and the zoned parking areas. The best GPS address to the parking garage is 661 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. When entering the parking garage, there are ADA parking spots to the left of the entrance. Counselors, Group Visits or New OSU Staff/Faculty Counselors: Why should your students get to have all the fun? If you are a high school counselor or independent counselor, come and experience Beaver Nation for yourself! We will customize a campus visit for your needs. Interested counselors may email Zoie Inouye (Program Coordinator) at [email protected] to arrange a counselor visit. Group Visits: If you are a group and/or school organization, please click here for more information, and to register a virtual or in-person group/school tour. New Staff/Faculty: If you are a new staff or faculty member at Oregon State and you would like a campus tour, please email Natalie Rooney ([email protected]) for more information on setting up a tour. Virtual Tour Virtual Tour Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Learn what it means to be part of the Beaver Nation! Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation