Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Site Navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Campus Visits Main navigation Apply Visit Virtual Why UO Majors and Minors Costs and Financial Aid Request Info Visit Let Us Guide You Take a Campus Tour Enjoy our beautiful campus as a student ambassador leads you on a guided campus tour, or explore on your own with our UOregon app or the self-guided tour map. Not coming to Eugene just yet? We've got plenty of virtual visit options too. Parking and Travel Plans Frequently Asked Questions Student Welcome Center Now Open The University of Oregon is proud to present our interactive, state-of-the-art Student Welcome Center, a starting point for campus tours that encourages exploration and rewards curiosity. Features include lounges, meeting room, residence hall showrooms, and a theater for large group presentations. Explore the Welcome Center Location Seek for Yourself While we would love to show you around campus in one of our student-led tours, you have the option to explore on your own. Choose from our UOregon app or the self-guided tour map. You can also pick up a printed tour map and guide at one of the kiosks conveniently located around campus. There's something about this place Where we are says a lot about who we are. Our 295-acre campus is smack-dab in the middle of some of the most beautiful places to be outside anywhere. We jog in the morning, bike to school, and roll along 13th Avenue to meet friends. We ski down mountains, float down rivers, and play along the beaches on the weekends. From the moment you arrive, you’ll feel right at home. This place feels familiar, green, and friendly, but also modern, totally connected, and cosmopolitan. It’s kind of perfect—an extraordinary academic community surrounded by a quintessential college town. It’s alive with music, culture, food, art, and just the right amount of weird to keep things interesting. Eugene, Oregon Connect with us virtually If you can't make it to campus or just want to stay connected, we have plenty of options for you. Schedule a one-on-one Zoom meetup, or explore our digital resources to help imagine your life on campus. Zoom Meetups Our team of admissions counselors, housing representatives, and student ambassadors are available to schedule one-on-one Zoom meetings. Let us know what you're wondering about and we'll customize each session to your needs. Meet With Us Digital Resources Plenty of UO resources exist online, and we wanted to gather them all here for you to explore. From our YouTube playlist, to our Instagram filters, to our plethora of 360 VR content, there's plenty of ways to experience your future life as a Duck. Explore the UO RESOURCES Admissions Apply Now Financial Aid and Scholarships Group Visits Majors and Minors Request Info Student Orientation Campus Visits 5263 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: DeNorval Unthank, Jr. Hall , Suite 101 Call or Text: 541-346-1274 Contact Us visit@uoregon.edu Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Be a Duck App Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.