Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Undergraduate Admissions » Visit OSU Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Visit Campus Visit Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation Request More Information Visit OSU Apply to OSU Visit Campus Visit Programs Group Visits Our Ambassadors Admissions Information Contact Us/Getting Here Request Info Visit Apply The Welcome Center is currently open and offering campus visits, though we may experience unexpected staffing shortages due to COVID-19. We appreciate your patience and flexibility if we need to offer alternate campus-based tour options for your scheduled visit day. All campus visitors are strongly encouraged to be fully vaccinated and/or have a negative COVID test result within 3 days of their scheduled visit. Visit Oregon State University We're here for you virtually or in-person! In-Person Visits If you're planning a trip to Corvallis, we're ready to welcome you for campus visits and tours! Make a daily visit/tour reservation Open house/admitted student programs Campus group visits for high schools and community colleges Traveling to Corvallis Campus map Learn more about Corvallis, Oregon Connect Virtually While the Welcome Center is open for visits, we know that many of you will still be visiting campus virtually. We have a variety of options you can use to connect with us online: Register for virtual events for prospective & admitted students Visit the campus 24/7 360-degree virtual tour Guidebook walking tour Group virtual visits Elementary and middle school virtual visits Campus visitors' guide Campus map Follow on Facebook See Us on Instagram VisitOSU on Twitter Oregon State on YouTube The Welcome Center The Oregon State University Welcome Center is located on the first floor of the Beth Ray Center for Academic Support at 671 SW 26th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331. Our business hours are 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Pacific, Monday through Friday. Please note the Welcome Center's campus-based operations will pause during winter break and/or university holidays. Check out our visit registration calendar for information on which dates we have open for campus visits. Getting Here: For daily tours and individual visits, check in at the Welcome Center (GPS: 671 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331). For Beaver Open House, Spring Preview and Orange & Black Day events, park in the parking garage (GPS: 661 SW 26th Street, Corvallis, OR 97331). Parking: Complimentary parking will be provided to all visitors who register for a campus visit! Oregon State University uses a virtual parking permit system, meaning that you don't need to print anything out ahead of time. All you need is your license plate number for the car you drive to campus! Registered visitors will receive emails with further instructions on how to obtain your virtual parking permit and directions to campus. Please register for a campus visit in order to receive these emails. Visitors can park in floors 1-3 of the parking garage, or in any B or C zones using the virtual permit. Click here for a campus parking map displaying the location of the parking garage and the zoned parking areas. The best GPS address to the parking garage is 661 SW 26th St, Corvallis, OR 97331. ADA Parking: While our virtual permits are for B and C zones, our virtual permit is also valid for vehicles with a DMV-isssued ADA parking placard to park in ADA parking spaces in any zone. When entering the parking garage, there are ADA parking spots to the left of the entrance. Please call us at 541-737-2626 if you need any assistance. Contact Info Welcome Center 671 SW 26th St Corvallis, Oregon 97331 phone: 541-737-2626 toll-free: 800-291-4192 [email protected] Enrollment Management Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Visit Campus Open House Programs Groups/Schools/Organizations Our Student Ambassadors Admissions Athletics at Oregon State Parent and Family Resources Student Life Student Organizations Student Orientation