Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Visitors Center Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Tours Directions & Maps Accommodations Campus Highlights Visitors Center You are here: Home Explore the Highlights Explore the Highlights Eat on Campus coffee icon Joe Coffee The single origin drip bar, espresso drinks and a light food menu, makes this location very popular to students, professors and locals alike. cutlery icon Chef Mike's Sub Shop Hot and cold oversized sub sandwiches served daily. cutlery icon Brownie's Cafe Brownie's Cafe offers an exceptional selection of breakfast and lunch options. coffee icon Blue Java Enjoy our selection of espresso, coffee and teas. Arts Miller Theater Miller Theatre at Columbia University is the leading presenter of new music in New York City and one of the most vital forces nationwide for innovative programming. The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Advances Columbia University's historical, critical, and creative engagement with the visual arts. The Lenfest Center for the Arts The Lenfest Center for the Arts is the the second building to have opened on the University’s Manhattanville campus. Public Outdoor Sculpture Columbia’s sculpture of the Scholars’ Lion by Greg Wyatt stands on a large granite pedestal and faces East. It is a larger-than-life walking lion made in bronze. General Morningside Heights Neighborhood This neighborhood in New York City is home to the world’s leading academic and religious institutions. University Bookstore Offers a plethora of textbooks, apparel, electronics and school supplies. St. Paul's Chapel Provides a venue for hundreds of religious and campus events each year, including worship services, concerts, university and private ceremonies. Public Safety Is committed to making our campus and its surrounding community safe and secure. Columbia Health Disability Services Facilitates equal access to campus life and academic experiences for students with disabilities, as well as mobility access for visitors with disabilities. Columbia Libraries Columbia University Libraries is one of the top five academic research libraries in North America. Columbia Impact Seeks to advance the public good by engaging Columbia University students in high-quality service in partnership with community organizations. Columbia Athletics The Baker Athletics Complex is the athletics and recreational facility for Columbia's outdoor varsity sports and recreational programs. Faculty House A premier event space at Columbia University in Upper Manhattan welcoming meetings, events and banquets. Columbia Greenmarket Open on Thursdays and Sundays, this market serves a diverse population including university students to Upper West Side residents. Visitors Center213 Low Library, 535 W. 116th St. · New York, NY 10027 HoursMonday-Friday, 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Phone 212-854-4900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close