Health Talk Point of View Editor’s Pick In the News Trending About Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn RSS A news publication of Texas A&M Health, Vital Record offers insight on the latest in health, medicine and scientific discovery from experts across our five colleges and numerous centers and institutes. Menu Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Research Covid-19 Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Research Covid-19 Texas A&M Health faculty rank among top 2 percent scholars worldwide Twenty-six faculty members appear in Stanford University’s “World’s Top 2% Scientists” list May 19, 2022 Facebook Tweet Several faculty members at the Texas A&M University Health Science Center (Texas A&M Health) rank in the top 2 percent of scientists worldwide, based on a study conducted by Stanford University. “World’s Top 2% Scientists” is a publicly available database of the 100,000 most-cited authors across all scientific fields. It was compiled by researchers at Stanford University using data from Elsevier’s Scopus—a curated abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature—and considers six citation metrics. It includes two different versions: single year performance and career-long performance. The following Texas A&M Health scholars appear in the career-long list, which assesses scientists for the impact of their citations from 1996 until the end of 2020. College of Dentistry Peter H. Buschang, PhD, Regents Professor, Orthodontics Lynne A. Opperman, PhD, Regents Professor, Biomedical Sciences John M. Wright, DDS, Regents Professor, Diagnostic Science Paul C. Dechow, PhD, Emeritus Regents Professor, Biomedical Sciences Stephen K. Harrel, DDS, adjunct professor, Periodontics Xiaohua Liu, PhD, professor, Biomedical Sciences College of Medicine Darwin J. Prockop, PhD, professor, Molecular and Cellular Medicine, director, Institute for Regenerative Medicine Nick Pace, PhD, Distinguished Professor, Regents Professor, McMullin Professor of Genetics, Molecular & Cellular Medicine Samba Reddy, PhD, RPh, FAAPS, FAAAS, professor, Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics Israel Liberzon, MD, professor and head, Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Ashok K. Shetty, PhD, professor, Molecular and Cellular Medicine, associate director, Institute for Regenerative Medicine David N. McMurray, PhD, Professor Emeritus, Microbial Pathogenesis and Immunology James R. West, PhD, Distinguished Professor Emeritus, Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics Lih Kuo, PhD, Regents Professor, associate department head, Medical Physiology, director, Ophthalmic Vascular Research Program Vytas A. Bankaitis, PhD, Distinguished Professor, Molecular and Cellular Medicine, E.L. Wehner-Welch Foundation Chair in Chemistry David Threadgill, PhD, University Distinguished Professor, Tom and Jean McMullin Chair of Genetics, Molecular and Cellular Medicine, director, Texas A&M Institute for Genome Sciences and Society Farida Sohrabji, PhD, Regents Professor, department head, Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics, director, Women’s Health in Neuroscience Program David C. Zawieja, PhD, Regents Professor, department head, Medical Physiology, executive director, Cardiovascular Research Institute Cynthia J. Meininger, PhD, Professor Emerita, Medical Physiology, director, Division of Vascular Biology, director, Graduate Studies – Temple campus Vernon Tesh, PhD, professor, Microbial Pathogenesis and Immunology, associate vice president for Faculty and Academic Affairs, Texas A&M Health George C.Y. Chiou, PhD, Professor Emeritus, Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics Rangel College of Pharmacy Mansoor A. Khan, PhD, RPh, vice dean, professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, director, Formulations and Drug Delivery Core Laboratory, Presidential Impact Fellow School of Public Health Virender K. Sharma, PhD, professor, Environmental and Occupational Health, director, Program on Environmental and Sustainability Marcia G. Ory, PhD, MPH, Regents and Distinguished Professor, Environmental and Occupational Health Joseph Sharkey, PhD, MPH, professor, Health Promotion and Community Health Sciences Institute of Biosciences and Technology Roderick H. Dashwood, PhD, FRSB, director, John S. Dunn Chair for Disease Prevention, Texas A&M Institute of Biosciences and Technology Center for Epigenetics & Disease Prevention, professor, College of Medicine Department of Translational Medical Sciences — Lindsey Hendrix Media contact: Dee Dee Grays, 979.436.0611. You may also like Students help build better lives in Ghana Your dental hygienist might prevent a trip to the emergency room Impact of high deductible health plans on health care utilization College of Medicine announces two recipients of Distinguished Alumni Award Subscribe TodayStay up-to-date on the latest heath care topics Latest Tweets Tweets by TAMUHealth In the news Workers can be just as productive away from the office, study finds Boston Globe Drug use by state: 2022’s problem areas WalletHub Read more » Admin Updates Shireman named Texas A&M College of Medicine executive associate dean Prominent ergonomist, entrepreneur teaches future innovators in the field he loves Quick Links College of Dentistry College of Medicine College of Nursing Rangel College of Pharmacy School of Public Health Institute of Biosciences & Technology Rural and Community Health Institute Subscribe Find an Expert