Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Daniel E Warshay title="Email Daniel_Warshay@brown.edu Overview Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Daniel E Warshay Professor of the Practice of Engineering Overview Danny Warshay is first and foremost an entrepreneur. He began his entrepreneurial pursuits while an undergraduate at Brown as a member of the Clearview Software startup leadership team. Apple acquired Clearview in 1989, and since then, he has co-founded and sold companies in fields ranging from software and advanced materials to consumer products and media (acquired by Medline, Time, Belo Corporation, Sealed Air, Penton Media). Beyond his own successful ventures, Danny is internationally recognized for his approach to teaching entrepreneurship. He is Executive Director of the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship and a member of the entrepreneurship faculty at Brown, where the Critical Review recognized his Entrepreneurial Process course as the highest-rated course in the University. Danny is also a member of the entrepreneurship faculty in the Tel Aviv University MBA program and leads intensive Entrepreneurial Process workshops in corporate, governmental, and academic contexts throughout the United States, and in China, Egypt, Portugal, Bahrain, Slovenia, South Africa, Jordan, Palestine, Israel, the UK and Jamaica. In all of his entrepreneurial pursuits, Danny emphasizes breakthrough techniques of bottom-up consumer research that he learned at Procter & Gamble as a member of the Duncan Hines Brand Management team, where he managed the development and marketing of new products. One of Danny’s business passions on which he has spoken in national forums and been interviewed in Inc. Magazine is Open-Book Management – an approach to empowering, motivating and rewarding employees through exposure to all relevant measures and financial literacy, and by providing a meaningful stake in the outcome through employee ownership. In recognition of his active support for Brown students in and out of the classroom, Danny was awarded the first ever Nathalie Rutherford Pierrepont Prize for Leadership, Career Advising, and Motivation. Google’s University Program awarded Brown’s Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Concentration an unrestricted grant in recognition of the impact Danny’s teaching has had on his students, many of whom have gone on to work at Google. To recognize Danny’s leadership during his tenure as President of its Board of Trustees, Brown Hillel annually awards the Danny Warshay ’87 Exceptional Leadership Award to the student who has most clearly demonstrated the leadership qualities of mentoring, modeling and community building. Danny was also the recipient of the Merrill L. Hassenfeld Leadership in Community Service Award, and most recently, the Brown Football team recognized Danny with the Dave Zucconi ’55 Brown Pride Award for loyalty, support, service and faith in Brown football. Danny received an A.B. in History, magna cum laude, from Brown University (Junior Year at Hebrew University in Jerusalem), and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. In addition to spending time with his wonderful wife (Dr. Debra Herman) and three terrific children, Danny loves the mental and physical challenges and rewards of vinyasa yoga. He is also an avid (and tortured) Cleveland sports fan. More details available at dannywarshay.com Brown Affiliations Engineering On the Web DannyWarshay.com Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1994 MBA Harvard University 1987 BA Brown University Honors and Awards In recognition of his active support for Brown students in and out of the classroom, Danny was awarded the first ever Nathalie Rutherford Pierrepont Prize for Leadership, Career Advising, and Motivation. Google’s University Program awarded Brown’s Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Concentration an unrestricted grant in recognition of the impact Danny’s teaching has had on his students, many of whom have gone on to work at Google. To recognize Danny’s leadership during his tenure as President of its Board of Trustees, Brown Hillel annually awards the Danny Warshay ’87 Exceptional Leadership Award to the student who has most clearly demonstrated the leadership qualities of mentoring, modeling and community building. Danny was also the recipient of the Merrill L. Hassenfeld Leadership in Community Service Award, and most recently, the Brown Football team recognized Danny with the Dave Zucconi ’55 Brown Pride Award for loyalty, support, service and faith in Brown football. Affiliations Visualize it Appointments Executive Director. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, 2016- Teaching Teaching Overview ENGN1010 The Entrepreneurial Process. Essential elements of the entrepreneurial process: Defining Entrepreneurship; Recognizing and Creating Opportunities and Developing Business Models; Assembling The Team; Raising Financial Resources; Managing Uncertainty; Managing the Growing Venture; and Realizing Value. Teaching ENGN 1010 - The Entrepreneurial Process ENGN 1010 - The Entrepreneurial Process: Innovation in Practice About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO