Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile John Palella title="Email john_palella@brown.edu Overview Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel John Palella Lecturer in Education Overview John Palella joins Brown University from Clark University where he was the inaugural postdoctoral teaching fellow in the Center for Gender, Race, and Area Studies. Dr. Palella has been active in both history and social studies education since 2002 as a social studies teacher, researcher, teacher educator, and professor. After finishing his M.A. in social studies education at New York University, Dr. Palella completed a Ph.D. in gender history from the University at Albany, S.U.N.Y. His research and teaching interests are in histories of race, gender, and sexuality; promoting antiracism through storytelling, role playing, and process drama; toxic masculinity and multiple masculinities in social studies curricula and educational contexts; and teaching LGBTQIAA+ history in social studies classrooms. Dr. Palella is currently working on a project that explores multiple and intersectional LGBTQIAA+ subjectivities from the years 1960-1980 (specifically focusing on pre-and post-Stonewall uprising and pre-HIV/AIDS activism lenses). Using letters, diaries, pamphlets, and multiple Gay and Lesbian-focused media, he sorts out the tensions between how individuals imagined and experienced their Queerness and how LGBTQIAA+ authorities taught (broadly conceived) Americans "how to be Gay." Dr. Palella focuses on the racial, gendered, classed, and ability-based discourses and interpelations of those discourses in constructing subjectivities and identities. As an activist, John hopes to decolonize the liberation stories of Queer history that try to silence Trans* and BIPOC members of the LGBTQIAA+ community. More importantly he highlights the ways in which they fought against silencing and erasure. Eventually, Dr. Palella will transform the project into a database of primary sources and curriculum guides for high school teachers and social studies education students to utilize in their classrooms for teaching LGBTQIAA+ histories as well as intersectionality and social justice related courses. As the director of the MAT Social Studies Cohort within the Department of Education, Professor Palella is excited to work with graduate students who are interested in creating culturally sustaining frameworks for teaching secondary social studies as well as those who want to create curricula for teaching the histories of race, gender and sexuality in social studies classrooms. Professor Palella is particually interested in working with students and scholars on projects, theses, programming, and curricula related to Queer, Gay & Lesbian, Trans* & Transgender, LGBTQIAA+ (LGBT, LGBTQ, or LGBTQ+) and intersectional & identity studies. Make an appointment to meet with Professor Palella Brown Affiliations Education Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2016 PhD The University at Albany 2005 MA New York University (NYU) 2002 BA Ithaca College Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations National Council for the Social Studies Organization of American Historians Teaching Teaching Overview I teach a wide variety of courses in education, history, and intersectionality studies. At Brown I teach the graduate courses in social studies methods, student teaching, and teaching students with exceptional learning needs. My undergraduate courses are in histories of education, critical race and ethnic studies, gender and sexuality studies, and LGBTQIAA+ history. Teaching EDUC 1680 - Histories of Race and Education in the United States EDUC 1680 - Race and Education in American History EDUC 2510B - Educational Theory and Practice I: Social Studies EDUC 2515 - Learning Theory and Special Populations EDUC 2520B - Educational Theory and Practice in Teaching Social Studies II EDUC 2530B - Educational Theory and Practice in Teaching Social Studies III EDUC 2565 - Practicum and Seminar I EDUC 2575 - Student Teaching and Seminar About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO