Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Stephon H Alexander title="Email stephon_alexander@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Stephon H Alexander Professor of Physics Overview I am a theoretical physicist specializing in cosmology, particle physics and quantum gravity (String Theory and Loop Quantum Gravity). I received my BSc (1993) from Haverford College and PhD (2000) from Brown University. I held postdoctoral research fellowships at Imperial College, London and The Stanford University Linear Accelerator Center. I previously held faculty positions at Penn State, Haverford College and Dartmouth. I also explore interconnections between music, physics,mathematics and technology though recordings, performance, teaching and public lectures. I have performed and collaborated with Will Calhoun, Brian Eno, Marc Cary, Vernon Reid, Ronnie Burrage and Jaron Lanier on these intersections. Brown Affiliations Physics Research Areas Cosmology, Quantum Gravity, String Theory, Particle Physics | Machine learning On the Web National Geographic Emerging Explorer TEDx Talk Big Think Research Research Overview Most of the energy and matter content is invisible and so far seems to manifest itself gravitationally. The Dark energy makes the expansion rate of the universe accelerate and the dark matter keeps our galaxy and others, happily as long lived bound states. The physics community have been on a search both theoretically and experimentally to identify the identity of the dark energy and matter. So far most of our physics have been explained and predicted by our standard model of elementary particle interactions and Einstein's theory of General Relativity with breath taking precisions. Lurking behind the issues presented by the dark sector is the fact that both general relatiity and the standard model are incomplete theories, fraught with singluarities and instabilities. Its is the goal of my research group to find the completion of the standard model and genral relativity keeping these issues, both theoretically and observationally in mind. Our group addfresses these problems with a diverse arsenal of theoretical, computational (ie machine learning) and conceptual tools. For more information consult my research lab page: https://www.stephonalexanderlab.com/ Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2000 PhD Brown University 1993 BSc Haverford College Postdoctoral/Other Training Research Physicist SLAC 2002-2005 Menlo Park, CA, U Postdoctoral Researcher Imperial College 2000-2002 London, UK Honors and Awards NSF CAREER AWARD APS E. Bouchet Award AAAS John Wesley Powell Memorial Award Trinidad and Tobago, NIHERST National Medal of Science Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Member of Center for Fundamental Theory at Penn State http://cft.igc.psu.edu/research/ Member of Fundamental Questions Institite Teaching Teaching PHYS 0150 - The Jazz of Modern Physics PHYS 2100 - General Relativity and Cosmology About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO