Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Brian W E Meeks title="Email brian_meeks@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Brian W E Meeks Professor of Africana Studies Overview Brian Meeks: Brief biography Brian Meeks is Professor of Africana Studies at Brown University and served as Chair from 2015-2021. He previously served as Professor of Social and Political Change and Director of the Sir Arthur Lewis Institute of Social and Economic Studies at the University of the West Indies, Mona, Jamaica. He has also taught at Michigan State University, Florida International University and Anton de Kom University of Suriname and served as Visiting Scholar at Cambridge University, Stanford University and Brown University. He has published twelve books and edited collections, including Critical Interventions in Caribbean Politics and Theory, Caribbean Revolutions and Revolutionary Theory : an Assessment of Cuba, Nicaragua and Grenada, Narratives of Resistance: Jamaica, Trinidad, the Caribbean and Envisioning Caribbean Futures: Jamaican Perspectives. His novel Paint the Town Red was published in 2003 and his volume of poems The Coup Clock Clicks was published in 2018. June, 2021 Brown Affiliations Africana Studies Research Areas Jamaica, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, Cuba, Nicaragua Publications Visualize it View All (14) Book (12) Article (2) Beyond Westminster in the Caribbean. edited by Brian Meeks and Kate Quinn, Ian Randle Publishers, 2018. "Hegemony." 2018. More Info "Jamaican Roads Not Taken or a Big "What If" in Stuart Hall's Life." boundary 2, 2017. More Info Freedom, Power and Sovereignty: The Thought of Gordon K. Lewis . edited by Brian Meeks and Jermaine McCalpin, Ian Randle Publishers, 2015. Critical Interventions in Caribbean Politics and Theory. The University of Mississippi Press, 2014. M.G. Smith: Social Theory and Anthropology in the Caribbean and Beyond . edited by Brian Meeks, Ian Randle Publishers, 2011. The Thought of New World: The Quest for Decolonisation . edited by Brian Meeks and Norman Girvan, 2010. Culture, Politics, Race and Diaspora: The Thought of Stuart Hall. edited by Brian Meeks, Ian Randle Publishers, 2007. Envisioning Caribbean Futures: Jamaican Perspectives. 2007. Caribbean Revolutions and Revolutionary Theory: an Assessment of Cuba, Nicaragua and Grenada. The University of the West Indies Press, 2001. New Caribbean Thought: A Reader. edited by Brian Meeks and Folke Lindahl, The University of the West Indies Press, 2001. Narratives of Resistance: Jamaica, Trinidad, the Caribbean. The University of the West Indies Press, 2000. Radical Caribbean: From Black Power to Abu Bakr. The University of the West Indies Press, 1996. Caribbean Revolutions and Revolutionary Theory: An Assessment of Cuba, Nicaragua and Grenada, . Palgrave Macmillan, 1993. Research Research Overview My work explores theories of revolution; Caribbean revolutions of the Twentieth Century; hegemony, power and the state; Caribbean social and political thinkers and thought and the exploration of alternative avenues to prosperity, with emphasis on the Caribbean and the African diaspora. Scholarly Work Paint the Town Red (Novel) Peepal Tree Press, Leeds, 2003. The Coup Clock Clicks (poems) Peepal Tree Press, 2018. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1988 PhD University of the West Indies Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Cogut Center for the Humanities (Governing Board 2016-2019). Teaching Teaching Overview AFRI 1360 - Africana Studies: Knowledge, Texts and Methodology Teaching AFRI 0670 - Global Black Radicalism AFRI 0760A - Rastafarianism AFRI 1360 - Africana Studies: Knowledge, Texts and Methodology HMAN 2500 - Project Development Workshop About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO