Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile James P Allen title="Email James_Allen@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel James P Allen Charles Edwin Wilbour Professor of Egyptology Overview James P. Allen received his PhD from the University of Chicago. Before joining Brown in 2007, Prof. Allen was an epigrapher with the University of Chicago's Epigraphic Survey, Cairo Director of the American Research Center in Egypt, and curator of Egyptian art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. From 2008 to 2015, he was President of the International Association of Egyptologists. Prof. Allen's research interests include ancient Egyptian grammar and literature, religion, and history. He has written extensively on these subjects, including Genesis in Egypt: the Philosophy of Ancient Egyptian Creation Accounts (Yale, 1988), Middle Egyptian: an Introduction to the Language and Culture of Hieroglyphs (Cambridge, 2000; 2010, 2014), The Heqanakht Papyri (MMA, 2002), The Ancient Egyptian Pyramid Texts (Society of Biblical Literature, 2005), The Debate between a Man and His Soul (Brill, 2011), The Ancient Egyptian Language, an Historical Study (Cambridge, 2013), Middle Egyptian Literature: Eight Literary Works (2014), and The Grammar of the Pyramid Texts, Vol. 1: Unis. His most recent work has been on Ancient Egyptian Phonology (to be published by Cambridge University Press) and Ancient Egyptian Thought (to be published by the American University in Cairo Press). Brown Affiliations Egyptology and Assyriology Research Areas Ancient Egyptian language and literature Research Research Overview Prof. Allen is one of a small number of Egyptologists currently involved in a reevaluation of the model by which the earliest stages of the ancient Egyptian language is understood. In 2013, he hosted an international workshop on the subject at Brown, the results of which have been published in the Department's Wilbour Studies series of scholarly monographs. Research Statement The main thrust of my research since 2010 has been on the verbal system of Earlier (Old and Middle) Egyptian. Previous models of the language have proven either inaccurate or overly mechanical in explaining the formal, semantic, and syntactic features of a number of verb forms. As a result, I and a number of my colleagues in Europe have begun to rethink our approach to the data. My contribution since 2010 has been to identify the phenomenon of gemination (consonant doubling) as a lexical feature rather than an inflectional one, to reduce the inventory of a primary verb form (the sḏm.f) from six forms to two in Old Egyptian (unmarked and marked, the latter expressing incompletion) and only one in Middle Egyptian, to re-analyze the use of two verb forms (the sḏm.f and sḏm.n.f) in relative clauses as a feature of syntax rather than inflection, and to re-analyze the so-called “emphatic” construction (in which the verb is thematic rather than rhematic) as conditioned by context rather than by inflection or syntax. These all reflect my conviction that previous analyses of the Egyptian verbal system (including some of my own) have been corrupted by the unconscious biases that stem from translations into our own languages. For example, the Late Egyptian sḏm.f has been analyzed as concealing two inflected forms, preterite and subjunctive, because its uses require one or the other translation. Both forms, however, look exactly the same in writing, and it makes more sense to understand them as reflecting only one inflected form, unmarked for either tense or mood. For the last few years I have been working primarily on the Pyramid Texts, the oldest substantial body of ancient Egyptian literature. Most recently, I have begun work on a comprehensive grammar of the Pyramid Texts, which does not yet exist. To that end, I recently compiled a new concordance of all published sources from the Old Kingdom, a six-volume work that has been made freely available online (https://www.dropbox.com/sh/0xo88uy04urnz0v/o16_ojF8f_), the first volume of my grammar, dedicated to the oldest Pyramid Texts, those of Unis (Dyn. V, ca. 2323 BC), and the second volume, on the Pyramid Texts of queen Neith (Dyn. VI, ca. 220 BC), now in progress. In 2018, I completed a study of Egyptian phonology and a compilation of my thoughts on ancient Egyptian thought. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1981 PhD University of Chicago 1968 BA Saint Meinrad School of Theology Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Egypt Exploration Society, London. American Research Center in Egypt. International Association of Egyptologists. Teaching Teaching Overview I teach primarily ancient Egyptian language and literature as well as ancient Egyptian religion. Teaching EGYT 1310 - Introduction to Classical Hieroglyphic Egyptian Writing and Language (Middle Egyptian I) EGYT 1320 - Introduction to Classical Hieroglyphic Egyptian Writing and Language (Middle Egyptian II) EGYT 1330 - Selections from Middle Egyptian Hieroglyphic Texts EGYT 1420 - Ancient Egyptian Religion and Magic EGYT 2210 - Introduction to Coptic EGYT 2300 - Readings in Ancient Egyptian EGYT 2521 - Problems in Amarna History EGYT 2800 - Ancient Egyptian Phonology About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO