Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Sharon R Krause title="Email Sharon_Krause@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Sharon R Krause William R. Kenan, Jr. University Professor of Political Science Overview Sharon Krause is the William R. Kenan, Jr. University Professor of Political Science. She is the author of Freedom Beyond Sovereignty (University of Chicago Press, 2015); Civil Passions: Moral Sentiment and Democratic Deliberation (Princeton University Press, 2008); and Liberalism with Honor (Harvard University Press, 2002). Her latest book, Eco-Emancipation, is forthcoming from Princeton University Press (2023). The book explores the relationship between the human domination of nature and the political, economic, and social domination of human beings in various forms, and it identifies resources for more emancipatory types of human and more-than-human political community. She has also published numerous articles on topics in classical and contemporary liberalism and democratic theory drawing on figures ranging from Hume and Montesquieu to Simone de Beauvoir, Hannah Arendt, and Frederick Douglass, among others, with emphasis on the politics of justice, freedom, and social inequality. Her book Civil Passions won the 2010 Spitz Prize for best book in liberal or democratic theory from the Conference for the Study of Political Thought and the 2009 Alexander George Book Award for best book in political psychology from the International Society of Political Psychology. Her work has appeared in such journals as Political Theory, The Review of Politics, Politics and Gender, Contemporary Political Theory, Philosophy and Social Criticism, Polity, and History of Political Thought. She received her B.A. from Wellesley College, an M.T.S. from Harvard Divinity School, and a Ph.D. in political theory from Harvard University. Brown Affiliations Political Science Publications Visualize it View All (17) Book Section (3) Article (14) "Frederick Douglass: Non-sovereign Freedom and the Plurality of Political Resistance." African American Political Thought: A Collected History, edited by Melvin Rogers and Jack Turner, University of Chicago Press, 2021, pp. 116-41. "Political Respect for Nature." Philosophy and Social Criticism, vol. 47, no. 2, 2021, pp. 241-66. "The Rule of Law in Montesquieu." The Cambridge Companion to the Rule of Law, edited by Jens Meierhenrich and Martin Loughlin, Cambridge University Press, 2021, pp. 137-52. "Creating a Culture of Environmental Responsibility." Cultural Values in Political Economy, edited by J.P. Singh, Stanford University Press, 2020, pp. 65-86. "Environmental Domination." Political Theory, 2020. "Environmental Domination." Political Theory, vol. 48, no. 4, 2020, pp. 443-68. Full Text Krause, S. R. "Beyond non-domination: Agency, inequality and the meaning of freedom." Philosophy & Social Criticism, vol. 39, no. 2, 2013, pp. 187-208. Full Text Krause, Sharon R. "Plural Freedom." Pol & Gen, vol. 8, no. 02, 2012, pp. 238-245. Full Text Krause, S. R. "Bodies in Action: Corporeal Agency and Democratic Politics." Political Theory, vol. 39, no. 3, 2011, pp. 299-324. Full Text Krause, Sharon R. "Contested Questions, Current Trajectories: Feminism in Political Theory Today." Pol & Gen, vol. 7, no. 01, 2011, pp. 105-111. Full Text Krause, S. R. "Empathy, Democratic Politics, and the Impartial Juror." Law, Culture and the Humanities, vol. 7, no. 1, 2010, pp. 81-100. Full Text Krause, Sharon R. "Brains, Citizens, and Democracy's New Nobility." Theory & Event, vol. 9, no. 1, 2006. Full Text Krause, S. R. "Laws, passion, and the attractions of right action in Montesquieu." Philosophy & Social Criticism, vol. 32, no. 2, 2006, pp. 211-230. Full Text Krause, Sharon. "Desiring Justice: Motivation and Justification in Rawls and Habermas." Contemp Polit Theory, vol. 4, no. 4, 2005, pp. 363-385. Full Text Krause, Sharon R. "Two Concepts of Liberty in Montesquieu." Perspectives on Political Science, vol. 34, no. 2, 2005, pp. 88-96. Full Text Krause, S. R. "Hume and the (False) Luster of Justice." Political Theory, vol. 32, no. 5, 2004, pp. 628-655. Full Text Krause, Sharon. "The Spirit of Separate Powers in Montesquieu." ROP, vol. 62, no. 02, 2000, pp. 231. Full Text Research Research Overview Sharon Krause works on a range of topics in political theory including classical and contemporary liberalism; freedom and political agency; power, social inequality, and emancipatory politics; passions and politics; gender and politics; eco-politics; and public deliberation. Research Statement Eco-Emancipation (Princeton University Press, forthcoming in 2023) explores environmental problems through the lens of intersecting forms of domination. Environmental domination includes the political, economic, and cultural forces through which human beings (1) dominate nature, understood as Earth’s more-than-human parts; and (2) are themselves dominated in terms of both [a] the special burdens placed on poor and marginalized people with respect to environmental harms, and [b] the ways that virtually all of us are entrapped and exploited, often with our participation, by forces that degrade the Earth for profit and power. Whoever we are and whether we know it or not, we are in need of ecological emancipation – meaning the liberation of the Earth from human domination, and the liberation of human beings from a way of life that is at once exploitative and exploited, complicit and entrapped. The book helps us grasp the multiple, intersecting forms of domination that drive our current environmental problems and make them so difficult to solve – dynamics that many of us fail to see but that plague virtually every aspect of modern life today. And it identifies alternative institutional forms, social practices, and cultural norms that would help free people and nature from environmental domination, creating new kinds of more-than-human political community and establishing a politics of emancipation for people and the Earth. Freedom Beyond Sovereignty (University of Chicago Press, 2015), investigates the informal and often unintentional dynamics (such as implicit bias and cultural stigma) that undermine freedom in systematic ways for members of minority groups in ostensibly free societies such as the United States. Freedom is vulnerable to these dynamics because human agency is an intersubjective, non-sovereign experience that eludes personal control and extends beyond intentional choice. At the same time, agency is not reducible to socially constructed identities or prevailing relations of power; indeed, the agency of the oppressed sometimes surprises us with its vitality. Only by understanding the deep dynamics of agency as simultaneously non-sovereign and robust can we remediate the failures of freedom suffered by those on the losing end of persistent inequalities and grasp the scope of our own responsibilities for social change. Freedom Beyond Sovereignty brings experiences of those who are marginalized in American society today to the center of political theory and the study of freedom, with a special focus on inequalities of race, gender, and sexual orientation. It shows that none of the prevailing models of political freedom today is adequate once the non-sovereignty of human agency is acknowledged, and it defends a new pluralism of freedom. The book fundamentally reconstructs liberal individualism, and it advances our understanding of human action, personal responsibility, resistance to oppression, and the meaning of liberty. Civil Passions: Moral Sentiment and Democratic Deliberation (Princeton University Press, 2008), examines the relationship between reason and passion within political judgment and public deliberation. Must we put passions aside when we deliberate about justice? Can we do so? The dominant views of deliberation rightly emphasize the importance of impartiality as a cornerstone of fair decision-making, but they wrongly assume that impartiality means being disengaged and passionless. Civil Passions argues that moral and political deliberation necessarily incorporate passions, even as it insists on the value of impartiality. Drawing on resources ranging from Hume's theory of moral sentiment to recent findings in neuroscience, the book offers a systematic account of how passions can generate an impartial standpoint for deliberating about justice. By illuminating how impartiality feels, Civil Passions offers not only a truer account of how we deliberate about justice but one that promises to engage citizens more effectively in acting for justice. Liberalism with Honor (Harvard University Press, 2002), explores the sources of spirited political action in modern liberal democracies. Why do men and women sometimes risk their necks to defend their liberties? What motivates principled opposition to the abuse of power? Liberalism with Honor shows the sense of honor to be an important source of such action. Although often dismissed as a vestige of old world aristocracy, honor still matters for democratic societies today and is an important support for individual freedom. It combines self-concern with principled higher purposes, and so challenges the disabling dichotomy between self-interest and self-sacrifice that currently pervades both political theory and American public life. Moreover, while most of the time liberal democracy can get by with good citizens, occasionally it needs great ones -- men and women of unusual courage and extraordinary ambition who distinguish themselves by rising when others will not to the spirited defense of liberty. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1998 PhD Harvard University 1993 MA Harvard University 1988 BA Wellesley College Honors and Awards Spitz Prize for the best book on liberal or democratic theory, awarded by the Conference for the Study of Political Thought for Civil Passions , 2010. Alexander George Book Award for the best book published in the field of political psychology, awarded by the International Society of Political Psychology for Civil Passions , 2009. Roslyn Abramson Award for excellence and sensitivity in teaching undergraduates, Harvard University, 2003 Donovan Prize for the best faculty paper at the 2001 Annual Meeting, New England Political Science Association, 2001 Charles Sumner Prize for the best dissertation from the legal, political, historical, economic, social, or ethnic approach dealing with the establishment of universal peace, Harvard University, 1998 Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations American Political Science Association Conference for the Study of Political Thought Teaching Teaching Overview Professor Krause teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in the history of political thought and in contemporary political theory, including topics such as ancient and modern political thought; ecology and politics; freedom, power, and political action; theories of rights; gender and politics; liberalism and its critics; and democratic theory. Teaching HMAN 2400I - Environmental Humanities HMAN 2970A - Politics Beyond the Human POLS 0110 - Introduction to Political Thought POLS 1015 - Politics and Nature POLS 1040 - Ancient Political Thought POLS 1075 - Ancients and Moderns POLS 1820G - Politics and Nature POLS 2030 - Seminar in the History of Modern Political Thought POLS 2345 - Eco-Democracy POLS 2360 - Ancients and Moderns: Quarrels and Continuities POLS 2360 - Proseminar in Political Theory II About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO