Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Nitin P Padture title="Email Nitin_Padture@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Nitin P Padture Otis Everett Randall University Professor of Engineering Overview Nitin P. Padture is the Otis E. Randall University Professor in the School of Engineering (Materials Science) at Brown University. He received B.Tech. in Metallurgical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (1985), M.S. in Ceramic Engineering from Alfred University (1987), and Ph.D. in Materials Science & Engineering from Lehigh University (1991). Padture was a postdoctoral fellow at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (Gaithersburg, MD) for 3 years, before joining the University of Connecticut (UConn) faculty in January 1995 as Assistant Professor. He became Associate Professor in 1998 and Professor in 2003. Padture served as Interim Department Head at UConn for one year before moving to the Ohio State University (OSU) in January 2005. At OSU he was College of Engineering Distinguished Professor, and also founding Director of the NSF-funded Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC). He moved to Brown University in January 2012, and most recently he served as Director of Brown's Institute for Molecular and Nanoscale Innovation for about eight years. Padture's research interests are in advanced ceramics and nanomaterials, for applications ranging from solar photovoltaics to jet engines for renewable energy and energy efficiency. His research has been funded by NSF, ONR, DOE, DOEdu, AFOSR, DARPA, ARO, state governments, private foundations, and industry. Padture's teaching interests include: Introductory Materials Science & Engineering; Science & Engineering of Composite Materials; Mechanical Behavior of Materials; and Materials in Nanotechnology. Padture has authored or co-authored over 270 publications, including 7 awarded patents, which have been cited over 28,000 times total (Google Scholar; h-index 85). Padture has delivered 250 invited/ keynote/ plenary talks and seminars in the US and abroad. (Please see CV for complete lists.) A Fellow of the American Ceramic Society, Padture has received that society's Roland B. Snow, Robert L. Coble, and Richard M. Fulrath awards. He is also a recipient of the ONR Young Investigator Award, and he is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Padture received both the Distinguished Service Award and the Distinguished Alumnus Award from his alma mater, IIT-Bombay. Most recently he was awarded the Brown University Presidential Faculty Award. Padture is Editor of the international journals Acta Materialia and Scripta Materialia. Research Group Website Contact: nitin_padture@brown.edu Tel. (401)863-2859 Brown Affiliations Engineering Research Areas Ceramics | Coatings | Composites | High Temperature | Materials | Mechanical Properties | Nanomaterials | Nanotechnology | Photovoltaics | Thermal Properties | Thin Film On the Web PV Magazine (Lead-Free Solar Cells) Padture awarded &#36;1.5 million grant from Department of Energy PV Magazine (Reliable Solar Cells) Cracks in Perovskite Films for Solar Cells Easily Healed, Study Finds NASA to launch new Brown student satellite Nitin Padture to deliver Presidential Faculty Award Lecture ‘Molecular glue’ makes perovskite solar cells dramatically more reliable over time Presidential Faculty Award Lecture (recording) Researchers Make Next-Generation, High-Toughness Battery Component Research Group Website PV Magazine (Flexible Solar Cells) Google Scholar Profile LinkedIn Profile Brown University to Lead Four-Million Dollar Solar Cell Research Grant Flipping a Chemical Switch Helps Perovskite Solar Cells Beat the Heat Brown Professor Investigating Possible Breakthrough in Solar Energy -- Providence Journal Researchers Discover New Lead-Free Perovskite Material for Solar Cells Brown Researchers Aim to Revolutionize Solar Energy -- ABC6 News A New Method for Making Perovskite Solar Cells White House Chronicles Interview about Graphene BBC News Ceramic Coatings May Protect Jet Engines from Volcanic Ash Ohio State Awarded Prestigious Materials Research Center Fake Diamonds Help Jet Engines Take the Heat PV Magazine Researchers Find Better Way to Manufacture Fast Computer Chips Financial Times Washington Post R.I. Colleges Partner to Study Promising Solar Tech -- ecoRI News Forbes Research Research Overview Padture’s research interests are in the broad areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Specific current topics include: Halide perovskite solar cells and modules: synthesis/processing, characterization, properties, device-fabrication, stability, and reliability. High-temperature advanced structural ceramics, composites, and coatings for high-efficiency, fuel-flexible gas-turbine engines for electricity generation and aircraft propulsion. His research has been funded by NSF, ONR, DoE, AFOSR, DARPA, ARO, state governments, private foundations, and industry. Padture has authored or co-authored over 270 publications, including 7 awarded patents, which have been cited over 28,000 times total (Google Scholar; h-index 85). Padture has delivered 250 invited/keynote/plenary talks in the US and abroad. (Please see CV for complete lists.) Current Research Group Ph.D. Students Mr. Zhenghong 'John' Dai Ms. Meaghan Doyle Ms. Madhuja Layek Mr. Christopher Louzon Mr. Anush Ranka Postdoctoral Researchers Dr. (Mr.) Christos Athanasiou Dr. (Ms.) Tara Nietzold Dr. (Mr.) In Seok Yang Staff Dr. (Mr.) Hector F. Garces Research Group Website Research Statement Please see CV. Funded Research Current Research Grants: N.P. Padture (PI), and (co-PIs) J.J. Berry and K. Zhu; "Innovative Interfacial Engineering for Simultaneous Enhancement in Efficiency, Stability, and Reliability in Perovskite Solar Photovoltaics;" Department of Energy (Solar Energy Technology Office); $1,500,000; 36 months. N.P. Padture (PI); “Grain-Boundary Phenomena in Halide Perovskite Thin Films and Solar Cells;" Office of Naval Research; $480,000; 36 months. N.P. Padture (PI); "Emergent Opto-Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Coupled Behvaior of Halide Perovskites;" National Science Foundation (Division of Materials Research); $480,000; 36 months. N.P. Padture (PI); “Chemo-Thermo-Mechanical Degradation of Ceramic Coatings Ceramics for Gas-Turbine Engines and its Mitigation;" Office of Naval Research; $390,000; 36 months. N.P. Padture (PI); "Durable, Multifunctional, Thermal Barrier Coatings for Marine GasTurbines;" ReliaCoat LLC (ONR STTR Subcontract); $300,000; 24 months. N.P. Padture (PI); "Acquisition of a Photoluminescence Micro-Spectrometer;" Department of Defense (Defense University Research Instrumentation Program); $250,000; 12 months B.W. Sheldon (PI), and (co-PIs) N.P. Padture, J. Luo, and H. Gao; “Toughening Mechanisms in Ceramic Nanocomposites;" Department of Energy (Basic Energy Sciences); $750,000; 36 months. Scholarly Work Please see CV. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1991 PhD Lehigh University 1987 MS Alfred University 1985 BS Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay Honors and Awards A Fellow of the American Ceramic Society, Padture has received that society's Roland B. Snow, Robert L. Coble, and Richard M. Fulrath awards. He is also a recipient of the Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award, and he is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Padture received both the Distinguished Service Award and the Distinguished Alumnus Award from his alma mater, IIT-Bombay. Most recently he was awarded the Brown University Presidential Faculty Award. Padture held the College of Engineering Distinguished Professorship at the Ohio State University, and now he holds the Otis E. Randall University Professor endowed chair at Brown University. He is Editor of the international journals Acta Materialia and Scripta Materialia. Notable Lectures: - Presidential Award Public Lecture, Brown University, 2021 (Webinar) YouTube Recording - Keynote Lecture, 22nd International Conference on Solid-State Ionics, Pyeongchang, S. Korea, 2019 - Opening Plenary Lecture, 8th International Coatings Symposium, Tsukuba, Japan, 2018 - Keynote Lecture, 46th IUPAC World Chemistry Congress, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2017 - Plenary Lecture, ThinFilms 2016 Conference, Singapore, 2016 - Institute Colloquium, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, India, 2016 - Inaugural Lecture at the Provost's Faculty Lecture Series, Brown University, 2016 - Plenary Lecture, 9th International Conference on High-Perforamance Ceramics, Guilin, China, 2015 - Keynote Lecture, 14th European Ceramic Society Conference, Toledo, Spain, 2015 - Opening Plenary Lecture, 54th Congress of the Spanish Ceramics and Glass Society, Badajoz, Spain, 2014 - Keynote Lecture, 5th International Congress on Ceramics, Beijing, China, 2014 - Opening Plenary Lecture, IVth Portuguese-Spanish Congress on Ceramics and Glasses, Aveiro, Portugal, 2011 - Keynote Lecture, EUROMAT '09, Glasgow, United Kingdom, 2009 - Keynote Lecture, Richard M. Fulrath Award Symposium, MS&T ’07 Conference, Detroit, MI, 2007 - Invited Speaker, Gordon Research Conferences on Solid State Studies in Ceramics, 2001, 2016, 2018, and 2020 - Invited Speaker, Workshops on Fundamental Research Needs in Ceramics, National Science Foundation, Arlington, VA, 1997 and 2016 Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Chen, Ou Assistant Professor of Chemistry Gao, Huajian Walter H. Annenberg Professor Emeritus of Engineering Kingon, Angus Barrett Hazeltine University Professor of Entrepreneurship and Organizational Studies, Professor of Engineering Pacifici, Domenico Associate Professor of Engineering, Associate Professor of Physics Qi, Yue Joan Wernig Sorensen Professor of Engineering Sheldon, Brian Professor of Engineering Zia, Rashid Dean of the College, Professor of Engineering, Professor of Physics Affiliations American Ceramic Society, Elected Fellow American Association for the Advancement of Science, Elected Fellow Materials Research Society, Member Teaching Teaching Overview Padture's teaching interests are introductory materials science, mechanical behavior of materials, synthesis/processing of materials, and science & engineering of nanomaterials. Teaching ENGN 0410 - Materials Science ENGN 1440 - Mechanical Properties of Materials ENGN 1470 - Structure & Properties of Nonmetallic Materials ENGN 1470 - Structure and Properties of Nonmetallic Materials About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO