Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Laird B Hunt title="Email laird_hunt@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Laird B Hunt Professor of Literary Arts Overview Laird Hunt is the author of seven novels, a collection of stories and two book-length translations from the French. Kind One was a finalist for the PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction and won the Anisfield-Wolf Award for Fiction, and Neverhome won the Grand Prix de Littérature Américaine and The Bridge Prize and was shortlisted for the Prix Femina Étranger. His most recent novel, The Evening Road, was a Financial Times of London Best Book of 2017 and In the House in the Dark of the Woods was published to acclaim in 2018. His reviews and essays have been published in the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Wall Street Journal, the Daily Beast, the Guardian, the Irish Times and the Los Angeles Times, and his fiction has appeared in many literary journals here and abroad. A former United Nations press officer, he taught for many years in the creative writing PhD program at the University of Denver before joining the Literary Arts program at Brown. Brown Affiliations Literary Arts Publications Visualize it Book (4) In the House in the Dark of the Woods (forthcoming). 2018. The Evening Road. Little, Brown and Company, 2017. Neverhome. Little, Brown and Company, 2014. Kind One. Coffee House Press, 2012. Research Research Overview With In the House in the Dark of the Woods (October 2018) I will complete a four-novel investigation of crucible moments/issues, often tied to race and gender, in American history. Settings for these novels have included ante-bellum Kentucky, rural Indiana during the Jim Crow era, and Colonial New England. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1996 MA Sorbonne, Universite de Paris, IV 1996 MFA Naropa University 1989 BA Indiana University at Bloomington Honors and Awards Grand Prix de Littérature Américaine Bridge Book Award for Fiction Anisfield-Wolf Book Award for Fiction Prix Fémina Etranger (shortlist) Finalist for the Pen/Faulkner Book Award for Fiction Two-time finalist for the Pen USA Literary Award in Fiction Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Pen America Teaching Teaching Overview I offer workshops in fiction and translation and seminars in contemporary American and International literature, postmodern fiction, historical fiction and hybrid works of literature. Teaching LITR 0110A - Fiction I LITR 0210A - Fiction Writing II LITR 1010A - Advanced Fiction LITR 1200 - Writers on Writing LITR 1230E - Form and Theory of Fiction LITR 1231J - Histories LITR 2010A - Graduate Fiction LITR 2700 - Pedagogy Seminar About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO