Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Jack C Rusley title="Email jack_rusley@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Jack C Rusley Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Clinician Educator, Clinical Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice Overview Dr. Jack Rusley, MD, MHS is a board-certified pediatrician and adolescent medicine specialist, and an adolescent health researcher. He completed his internship and residency in combined Internal Medicine and Pediatrics (Med-Peds) at Maine Medical Center, fellowship in Adolescent Medicine at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and Master in Health Science at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. He is currently an Assistant Professor in the Division of Adolescent Medicine at Rhode Island Hospital and Hasbro Children’s Hospital, and has appointments in the Alpert Medical School at Brown University and the Brown University School of Public Health in the Department of Health Services, Policy, and Practice. His research interests include HIV prevention with a focus on family-based interventions for sexual minority and gender diverse adolescents and young adults. His clinical work includes providing primary care to adolescents and young adults ages 12 to 26 at the Rhode Island Adolescent Healthcare Center, where he is the associate medical director for primary care. He also provides specialty care for youth in the areas of substance use, family planning, STD testing and treatment, pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV (PrEP), comprehensive LGBTQ services, and menstrual disorders. His advocacy efforts include co-chairing the Rhode Island Health and Privacy Alliance, an inter-disciplinary and cross-sector group working to improve confidentiality in health services, especially regarding insurance. He is also a member of the Society of Adolescent Health Medicine national advocacy committee. Brown Affiliations Health Services, Policy and Practice Pediatrics Research Areas adolescence | adolescent and young adult populations | HIV prevention | LGBTQI people | New England On the Web Twitter LinkedIn Publications Visualize it View All (13) Article (6) Other (6) Abstract (1) Valente PK, Bauermeister JA, Lin WY, Operario D, Rusley J, Hightow-Weidman L, Mayer KH, Biello KB. "Next Generation Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for Young Men who have Sex with Men: Lessons from System and Provider-level barriers to oral PrEP." AIDS and Behavior, 2022. Full Text PubMed Rusley JC, Tao J, Koinis-Mitchell D, Rosenthal AE, Montgomery MC, Nunez H, Chan PA. "Trends in risk behaviors and sexually transmitted infections among youth presenting to a sexually transmitted infection clinic in the United States, 2013-2017." International journal of STD & AIDS, 2022, pp. 9564624221077785. Full Text PubMed Rusley, Jack, Carey, Michael P., Nelson, Kimberly M. "Disclosure of Male Attraction to Primary Care Clinicians by Adolescent Sexual Minority Males." Sexuality Research and Social Policy, 2021. Full Text Rusley J, Riese A. "Scaling up PrEP for Women: What We Can Learn From Title X Clinics in the Southern United States." Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 68, no. 3, 2021, pp. 433-434. Full Text PubMed Chu CT, Rusley JC, Wesley J, Chan PA, Trotz C, Brown JD. "Confidentiality in Sexual Healthcare for Adolescents and Young Adults: Addressing Disclosure in the Explanation of Benefits." Rhode Island medical journal (2013), vol. 103, no. 8, 2020, pp. 19-21. PubMed Rusley, Jack, Tomaszewski, Kathy, Kim, Julia, Robinson, Larnce, Rose, Kadi-Ann, Aronin, Caroline, Molloy, Matthew, Arrington-Sanders, Renata. "Improvement of Electronic Health Record Integrated Transition Planning Tools in Primary Care." Pediatric Quality and Safety, vol. 5, no. 3, 2020, pp. e282. Full Text Raifman J, Charlton BM, Arrington-Sanders R, Chan PA, Rusley J, Mayer KH, Stein MD, Austin SB, McConnell M. "Sexual Orientation and Suicide Attempt Disparities Among US Adolescents: 2009-2017." Pediatrics, vol. 145, no. 3, 2020. Full Text PubMed Rusley JC, Monroe A, Matson P, Gebo KA, Nonyane BAS, Minkovitz CS, Agwu A, Emerson M, Moore R, Rutstein R, Aberg J, Nijhawan A, Boswell S, Sanders R, HIV Research Network. "Discontinuity in Medicaid Coverage Among Young Adults with HIV." AIDS Patient Care and STDs, vol. 33, no. 3, 2019, pp. 89-92. Full Text PubMed Rusley, Jack, Cueto, Jennifer, Donaldson, Abigail A. "Bone Health Considerations for the Adolescent Female Athlete." Current Pediatrics Reports, vol. 6, no. 2, 2018, pp. 89-98. Full Text Rusley, Jack C., Arrington-Sanders, Renata, Tomaszewski, Kathy, Robinson, Larnce, Aronin, Caroline, Rose, Kadi-Ann, Molloy, Mathew. "Cultivating Connections to Adult Care: Use of an Electronic Health Record Integrated Transition Planning Tools to Improve Primary Care Transition." Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 60, no. 2, 2017, pp. S62-S63. Full Text Rusley, Jack C., Hunt, Jessica, Buzanoski, David, Arrington-Sanders, Renata, Fanburg, Jonathan T., Thibodeau, Patrice. "The Maine Adolescent Council on Transition (ACT Maine): A resident-driven, Community Access to Child Health (CATCH) Grant Funded Project to Improve the Quality of Health Care Transition and Build Resilience in Youth With Chronic Illness and Their Families." Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 56, no. 2, 2015, pp. S33-S34. Full Text Rusley, J. C., Andiman, W., Dzuria, J., Chwastiak, L., & Wagner, K. R. "Improving transitional care for youth living with HIV/AIDS: A national survey of pediatric providers. Poster presentation." Doris Duke Clinical Research Fellows Meeting Proceedings, 2009. Rougas SC, Rusley JC, Young BR, Romain CR, Lambrese JR, Dollase R, Monroe AD, Ritter DA. "Development of a student-based teaching academy." Medicine and health, Rhode Island, vol. 91, no. 8, 2008, pp. 252-4. PubMed Research Funded Research Grant # 1K23MH123335-01; Principal Investigator: Jack Rusley, MD; Dates: 05/01/2020 – 04/30/2025 Title: A family-based intervention to improve HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis uptake for adolescent sexual minority males Grant #: T32HD052459-07; Principal Investigator: Maria Trent, MD; Dates: 5/1/13 to 4/30/16 Title: Adolescent Health Promotion Research Training Program Description: The goal of the program is to provide training in reproductive health research to post-doctoral Adolescent Medicine physicians. Role: Fellow/Trainee Grant #: T71MC08054; Principal investigator: Hoover Adger, MD; Dates: 7/1/12 to 6/30/17 Title: Leadership Education in Adolescent Health Training Grant Description: The goal of the program is to provide training adolescent medicine to post-doctoral Adolescent Medicine physicians, nursing, social work, psychology, and nutrition fellows. Grant #: Not applicable Primary mentor: Renata Arrington-Sanders, MD, ScM, MPH Dates: 7/1/15 to 6/30/17 Title: Health Disparities Loan Repayment Program (LRP) Sponsor: National Institutes of Health (NIH) Role: Fellow/Trainee Description: Conceptualized, planned mixed-methods study of youth living with HIV and transition using an interdisciplinary, interdepartmental study team. LRP award accepted for 2 years for $70,000. Grant #: 120582 Principal investigator: Renata Arrington-Sanders, MD, ScM, MPH Dates: 7/1/15 to 8/30/16 Title: Transitioning Youth with Special Health Care Needs Sponsor: Maryland Consortium for Children with Special Health Care Needs, Community of Care (COC)/Parents Place of Maryland Total direct cost: $10,000 Role: Project manager Description: Funding to support quality improvement project in adolescent clinic with goal to improve process of transition to adult care using electronic health record (EHR)-integrated tools. Grant: Doris Duke Foundation Principal investigator: John Forrest, MD Dates: 7/1/08 to 60/30/09 Title: Transition for youth living with HIV/AIDS: Lessons from national survey of pediatric providers. Description: This was a 1 year clinical research fellowship funded by the Doris Duke Foundation through their Clinical Research Fellowship program Primary Mentors: Krystn Wagner, MD, PhD; Warren Andiman, MD Role: Clinical research fellow Grant #: 6631-257300 Primary Investigator: Jack Rusley, MD Dates: 1/9/13 to 8/4/14 Title: Maine Adolescent Leadership Council (ACT Maine) Description: This was a resident grant through the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Community Access to Child Health (CATCH) program, which was used to plan and implement a leadership/resilience training program for youth living with chronic illness Primary Mentors: Patrice Thibodeau, MD; Jonathan Fanburg, MD, MPH Role: PI Grant: Petersen Fund Primary Investigators: Jack Rusley, MD; Shankar Levine, MD Title: SSTAR Birth Project Description: This was a grant from the Petersen Fund at Brown Medical School and the Area Health Education Council (AHEC) to fund a project that provided health education to women recovering from drug addiction at a residential rehabilitation program in Rhode Island called SSTAR Birth. Primary Mentor: Jody Rich, MD Role: Co-PI Scholarly Work Rusley, Jack Colin; Tao, Jun; Koinis-Mitchell, Daphne; Rosenthal, Alex; Montgomery, Madeline C.; Nunez, Hector; Chan, Philip A. Longitudinal Trends in Risk Behaviors and Sexually Transmitted Infections among Adolescents and Young Adults at a Sexually Transmitted Diseases Clinic, 2013-2017. ID Week, poster presentation. Washington DC: 2019. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2016 MHS The Johns Hopkins University 2010 MD Alpert Medical School, Brown University 2003 BA Brown University Postdoctoral/Other Training Fellow Johns Hopkins University, Adolescent Medicine 2014-2017 Resident Maine Medical Center, Internal Medicine and Pediatrics (Med-Peds) 2010-2014 Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Allen, Emily Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Clinician Educator Biello, Katie Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Vice Chair of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Associate Professor of Epidemiology Brown, Larry Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Carey, Michael Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Chan, Philip Associate Professor of Medicine, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Donaldson, Abigail Associate Professor of Pediatrics, Clinician Educator Elwy, Anashua Rani Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Guthrie, Kate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Koinis-Mitchell, Daphne Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior (Research), Professor of Pediatrics (Research) Marshall, Brandon Associate Professor of Epidemiology Moitra, Ethan Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Operario, Don Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Rich, Josiah Professor of Medicine, Professor of Epidemiology Rogers, Brooke Assistant Professor of Medicine (Research), Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior (Research) Tao, Jun Assistant Professor of Medicine (Research) Credentials/Licenses Adolescent Medicine specialist American board of pediatrics, Adolescent Medicine 2018- #722 Rhode Island Medical License Rhode Island Department of Health 2017- #MD15912 Board Certified Pediatrician American Board of Pediatrics, Pediatrics 2014- #111515 Appointments Adolescent Medicine specialist. 2018- Teaching About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO