Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Anthropology http://www.brown.edu/Departments/Anthropology/ The Department of Anthropology is home to a vibrant community of faculty, students, and staff broadly interested in the study of humanity, past and present. Brown's socio-cultural and linguistic anthropologists are engaged in ethnography across the globe. The department's anthropological archaeologists are focused in the study of the material remains of the ancient, historic, and modern Americas. Current faculty and students are especially engaged in research related to issues of power, violence, politics, health, and population. The photographs found throughout the department website were taken by our faculty during their fieldwork. Visualize it Affiliations Faculty Administrative Positions Leinaweaver, Jessaca BChair of Anthropology Faculty Positions Al-Ali, Nadje SRobert Family Professor of International Studies, Professor of Anthropology and Middle East Studies Anderson, Douglas DProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Anderson, Wanni WAdjunct Professor Emerita of Anthropology Carter, Rebecca LouiseAssociate Professor of Anthropology and Urban Studies Faudree, Paja LAssociate Professor of Anthropology Fruzzetti, Lina MProfessor of Anthropology Gutmann, Matthew CProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Heath, Dwight BProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Houston, Stephen DDupee Family Professor of Social Science, Professor of Anthropology Jay, Robert RavenelleProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Jusionyte, IevaWatson Family University Associate Professor of International Security and Anthropology Kertzer, David IPaul R. Dupee, Jr. University Professor of Social Science, Professor of Anthropology Krech, ShepardProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Leinaweaver, Jessaca BProfessor of Anthropology Leis, Philip EProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Lennon, MylesAssistant Professor of Environment and Society and Anthropology Lutz, Catherine AThomas J. Watson, Jr. Professor Emerita of Anthropology and International Studies Mason, Katherine AVartan Gregorian Assistant Professor of Anthropology Preucel, Robert WJames Manning Professor of Anthropology Rubertone, Patricia EProfessor of Anthropology Scherer, Andrew KAssociate Professor of Anthropology Smith, Daniel JordanCharles C. Tillinghast, Jr. Professor of International Studies Townsend, Nicholas WilliamProfessor Emeritus of Anthropology Van Dommelen, PeterProfessor of Archaeology and the Ancient World and Anthropology VanValkenburgh, ParkerStanley J. Bernstein Assistant Professor of Social Sciences Warren, Kay BProfessor Emerita of Anthropology About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO