Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Lorin A Crawford title="Email lorin_crawford@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Lorin A Crawford RGSS Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Overview Lorin Crawford is a Principal Researcher at Microsoft Research New England. He also holds a faculty position as the RGSS Assistant Professor of Biostatistics at Brown University with an affiliation in the Center for Computational Molecular Biology. His scientific research interests involve the development of novel and efficient computational methodologies to address complex problems in statistical genetics, cancer pharmacology, and radiomics (e.g., cancer imaging). The central aim of Dr. Crawford's research program is to build machine learning algorithms and statistical tools that aid in the understanding of how nonlinear interactions between genetic features affect the architecture of complex traits and contribute to disease etiology. An overarching theme of the research done in the Crawford Lab group is to take modern computational approaches and develop theory that enable their interpretations to be related back to classical genomic principles. Before joining both MSR and Brown, Dr. Crawford received his PhD from the Department of Statistical Science at Duke University where he was formerly co-advised by Drs. Sayan Mukherjee and Kris C. Wood. He also received his Bachelors of Science degree in Mathematics from Clark Atlanta University. Brown Affiliations Biostatistics Research Areas Bayesian Statistics | deep learning | genetics | Genomics | Machine learning | Nonparametric statistics | radiomics | Topology On the Web Crawford Lab Website Personal Website Twitter Google Scholar Publications Visualize it View All (9) Article (7) Other (2) Runcie DE, Crawford L. "Fast and flexible linear mixed models for genome-wide genetics." PLoS Genetics, vol. 15, no. 2, 2019, pp. e1007978. Full Text PubMed Borgovan T, Crawford L, Nwizu C, Quesenberry P. "Stem cells and extracellular vesicles: biological regulators of physiology and disease." AJP: Cell Physiology, vol. 317, no. 2, 2019, pp. C155-C166. Full Text PubMed Soderquist, Ryan S., Crawford, Lorin, Liu, Esther, Lu, Min, Agarwal, Anika, Anderson, Grace R., Lin, Kevin H., Winter, Peter S., Cakir, Merve, Wood, Kris C. "Systematic mapping of BCL-2 gene dependencies in cancer reveals molecular determinants of BH3 mimetic sensitivity." Nature Communications, vol. 9, no. 1, 2018. Full Text PubMed G.R. Anderson, P.S. Winter, K.H. Lin, D.P. Nussbaum, M. Cakir, E.M. Stein, R. Soderquist, L. Crawford, J.C. Leeds, R. Newcomb, P. Stepp, C. Yip, S.E. Wardell, J.P. Tingley, M. Ali, M. Xu, M. Ryan, S.J. McCall, A. McRee, C.M. Counter, C.J. Der, K.C Wood. "A landscape of therapeutic cooperativity in KRAS mutant cancers reveals principles for controlling tumor evolution." Cell Reports, vol. 20, no. 4, 2017, pp. 999-1015. Full Text Crawford L, Wood KC, Zhou X, Mukherjee S. "Bayesian Approximate Kernel Regression with Variable Selection." Journal of the American Statistical Association, vol. 113, no. 524, 2017, pp. In Press. Full Text PubMed Crawford L, Zeng P, Mukherjee S, Zhou X. "Detecting epistasis with the marginal epistasis test in genetic mapping studies of quantitative traits." PLoS Genetics, vol. 13, no. 7, 2017, pp. e1006869. Full Text PubMed Singleton, Katherine R., Crawford, Lorin, Tsui, Elizabeth, Manchester, Haley E., Maertens, Ophelia, Liu, Xiaojing, Liberti, Maria V., Magpusao, Anniefer N., Stein, Elizabeth M., Tingley, Jennifer P., Frederick, Dennie T., Boland, Genevieve M., Flaherty, Keith T., McCall, Shannon J., Krepler, Clemens, Sproesser, Katrin, Herlyn, Meenhard, Adams, Drew J., Locasale, Jason W., Cichowski, Karen, Mukherjee, Sayan, Wood, Kris C. "Melanoma Therapeutic Strategies that Select against Resistance by Exploiting MYC-Driven Evolutionary Convergence." Cell Reports, vol. 21, no. 10, 2017, pp. 2796-2812. Full Text PubMed G.R. Anderson, S.E. Wardell, M. Cakir, L. Crawford, J.C. Leeds, D.P. Nussbaum, P.S. Shankar, R.S. Soderquist, E.M. Stein, J.P. Tingley, P.S. Winter, E.K. Zeiser-Misenheimer, H.M. Alley, A. Yllanes, V. Haney, K.L. Blackwell, S.J. McCall, D.P. McDonnell, and K.C. Wood. "PIK3CA mutations enable selective targeting of a breast tumor lineage survival dependency through MTOR-mediated control of MCL-1 translation." Science Translational Medicine, vol. 8, no. 369, 2016, pp. 369ra175. Full Text PubMed L. Crawford, V. Ponomarenko, J. Steinberg, and M. Williams. "Accepted elasticity in local arithmetic congruence monoids." Results in Mathematics, vol. 66, no. 1-2, 2014, pp. 227–245. Full Text Research Research Overview The Crawford research lab consists of a group of statisticians, computational biologists, and applied mathematicians developing novel and efficient methodologies to address complex problems in quantitative genetics, cancer pharmacology, molecular genomics, and radiomics (e.g. cancer imaging studies). Our current works are often motivated by issues that arise when attemping to statistically model massive data sets with high-throughput molecular information, particularly as it pertains to functional genomics and cellular-based biological processes. As a group, we look to continue to provide innovative tools that better address key computational hurdles faced when analyzing and dissecting genotypic and phenotypic variation. Funded Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function P20GM103645 (PI Sanes) NIH/NIGMS Summary: The proposed center will investigate the mechanisms of higher brain function, with a focus on attention, decision-making, action, and disorders that modify these key systems, using a combination of genetic, behavior, and systems neuroscience approaches. Role: Core B Co-Investigator Date: 08/13 - 07/23 PCRP Idea Development Award W81XWH-18-1-018 (PI Somarelli) DoD/PCRP Title: Targeting the p38/Snail/PD-L1 axis in Hormone-therapy Resistance and Metastasis Summary: The proposed work is to develop technology for both civil and military application. This subcontract involves providing expertise in developing statistical methodology. Role: Co-Investigator Date: 10/18 - 09/21 COBRE CBHD Institutional Pilot Award (IDeA Cost Share Award) P20GM109035 (PI Rand) NIH/NIGMS Project Title: Deep learning Methods for Fine Mapping and Discovery in Genomic Association StudiesSummary: During this time period, we will develop a suite of novel probabilistic machine learning and deep neural networks tools for fine mapping and discovery in genomic sequencing studies. Specifically, (i) develop an interpretable significance measure for probabilistic machine learning methods, (ii) develop a unified deep learning framework for gene-level and pathway enrichment analysis in genome-wide association studies, and (iii) create distributable software and use it to characterize nonlinear genetic effects at multiple genomic scales in real data applications. Role: Principal Investigator of Project Date: 03/19 - 02/21 Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship Computational & Evolutionary Molecular Biology (PI Crawford) Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Project Title: Interpretable Machine Learning Methods for Genome-wide Association Mapping Summary: The goal of this project is to build machine learning algorithms and statistical tools that aid in the understanding of how nonlinear interactions between genetic features affect the architecture of complex traits and contribute to disease etiology. A key theme of this work will be to take modern computational approaches and develop theory that enable their interpretations to be related back to classical genomic principles. Role: Principal Investigator Date: 09/19 - 09/21 Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2017 PhD Duke University 2017 MS Duke University Honors and Awards Cell Press: 1000 Inspiring Black Scientists in America David & Lucille Packard Foundation Fellowship for Science and Engineering Mathematically Gifted & Black: Black History Month Honoree 2020 The Root 100: Most Influential African Americans in 2019 Endowed Assistant Professorship (Brown University) Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship Forbes 30 Under 30 Class of 2019: Science ISBA Savage Award in Applied Methodology Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Center for Statistical Sciences (CSS) Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Teaching Teaching PHP 0100 - First year seminar: Statistics is everywhere PHP 2601 - Linear Models PHP 2605 - Generalized Linear Models PHP 2950 - Doctoral Seminar in Public Health About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO