Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Felipe A Rojas Silva title="Email Felipe_Rojas@brown.edu Overview Background Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Felipe A Rojas Silva Associate Professor of Archaeology and the Ancient World and Egyptology and Assyriology Overview My main research deals with the archaeology and history of the eastern Mediterranean between the Iron Age and Late Antiquity, and with the comparative history of archaeology and antiquarianism worldwide. Within these expansive fields I have specific long-standing interests in the archaeology of memory and of the senses, the archaeology and history of the scripts and languages of ancient Anatolia, and the history and theory of fakes and forgeries. My work is interdisciplinary by design. I collaborate closely and have published with colleagues in various other disciplines especially anthropologists, art historians, and architects. I am convinced that intense collaboration is fundamental to the intellectual vitality as well as the public relevance of archaeology and philology in particular, and also of the humanities more generally. My concern for generative dialogue and exchange extends beyond academia. I have made a sustained effort to engage creatively in the joint production of knowledge about the human past with multiple non-academic interlocutors. As part of this engagement, I am committed to long-term international collaborations: I currently direct archaeological fieldwork projects in both Turkey and Jordan and conduct curatorial work in Colombia. Brown Affiliations Archaeology and the Ancient World Egyptology and Assyriology On the Web academia Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2010 PhD University of California, Berkeley 2004 MA Harvard University 2002 MA New York University Affiliations Visualize it Teaching Teaching ANTH 1820 - Lost Languages: The Decipherment and Study of Ancient Writing Systems ARCH 0303 - tiny: Miniature Might and Meaning ARCH 1025 - Greece-Egypt-Anatolia-Mesopotamia: Transcultural Interactions in the Ancient World ARCH 1475 - Petra: Ancient Wonder, Modern Challenge ARCH 1712 - Ruins: Cross-cultural Understandings of the Material Traces of the Past ARCH 1830 - Fake! History of the Inauthentic ARCH 1837 - The Origins of Things: Cross-Cultural Perspectives on Early Human Worlds ARCH 1890 - Lost Languages ARCH 2115 - Ancient Mediterranean Scripts: Origins, Contact, Obsolescence ARCH 2156 - Other Pasts: Alternative Ontologies in the Study of What Was ARCH 2475 - The World in Stone: Rock-cut Monuments in the Ancient Mediterranean and Near East ASYR 0310 - Thunder-gods and Dragon-slayers: Mythology + Cultural Contact - Ancient Mediterranean and Near East ASYR 2900 - Introduction to Hittite Language and Literature HMAN 0900B - Fake: A History of the Inauthentic About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO