Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Stefanie Friedhoff title="Email stefanie_friedhoff@brown.edu Overview Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Stefanie Friedhoff Associate Professor of the Practice of Health Services, Policy and Practice Overview Stefanie Friedhoff studies the relationships between information needs, misinformation and health outcomes. She is an expert at information creation and verification, and brings her training as a newsroom leader, storyteller, strategist and innovator to global health, crisis response, media ecosystems, and knowledge translation. Her current research and policy projects include pandemic problem solving and data initiatives, crisis communications research and guidance, and designing and evaluating interventions to combat misinformation and meet the information needs of underserved communities. Focusing on the intersections of research and practice, Friedhoff's portfolio spans a range of interacting public health challenges: She is a Design and Research Partner in the Rockefeller Foundation’s Equity-First Vaccination Initiative and leads the secretariat for the Rockefeller Foundation’s Equity Advisory Council. She is on the leadership teams of the State and Territory Alliance for Testing, the Justice, Health and Democracy Impact Initiative, and Brown SPH’s Long Covid Initiative. Friedhoff is also the editor of Global Epidemics and the Covid Testing Communications Toolkit, a co-creator of the Preprint Sifter, and she leads key media partnerships to translate Covid-19 evidence into practical information for decision-makers and the public. She serves as an expert advisor to the Pew Research Center, an expert contributor to the Covid Collaborative, and a trustee to the Trust for Trauma Journalism. Prior to Brown, Friedhoff was Director of Content and Strategy at the Harvard Global Health Institute and led Programs and Special Projects at The Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard. She founded Nieman’s Trauma Journalism Program and Global Health Reporting Fellowships, and continues to teach trauma and resilience workshops for journalists. She created Nieman’s first online guide, coveringflu.org, initiated key conversations on issues such as Immigration, Covering Elections, and Covering Violence and Tragedy, and led explorations of the role of truth in a changing media ecosystem through projects such as “From Watergate to Wikileaks” (2010) and Truth in the Social Media Age (2012). Throughout her career, Friedhoff has worked as a foreign correspondent, feature writer, editor and photographer on three continents. Her stories have been published in TIME, The Boston Globe, Sueddeutsche Zeitung, Frankfurter Allgemeine, Nieman Reports, and many other publications. She was a 2001 Nieman Fellow at Harvard University. Brown Affiliations Health Services, Policy and Practice On the Web Global Epidemics Website Brown Long Covid Initiative Justice, Health and Democracy Impact Initiative Testing Communications Toolkit Preprint Sifter Twitter Tool Background Affiliations Visualize it Teaching About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO