Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Matthew Guterl title="Email Matthew_Guterl@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Matthew Guterl Professor of Africana Studies and American Studies, Chair of American Studies Overview I am a historian of race and nation, with a focus on United States history from the Civil War to the present. I've written four books. The first on race and the Progressive Era, the second on Southern slaveholders and the Caribbean, the third on the history of and cultural context for racial profiling, and the fourth on the life of Josephine Baker. I've also also co-authored, with Caroline Levander, a book on the politics of the modern hotel. Right now, I'm working on a global biography of the queer, cosmopolitan, human rights activist, Roger Casement, and a book on class-passing, cross-dressing, and race-passing. At Brown, I teach small and large undergraduate classes on American political and popular culture, and graduate classes on race and culture. I earned my BA degree from Richard Stockton College of New Jersey in 1993, and my PhD in History from Rutgers University in 1999. Before coming to Brown, I taught at Washington State University and Indiana University. I've been awarded fellowships from the National Museum of American History, Yale University, Rice University, and the Library Company of Philadelphia. In 2010, I was the winner of the Mary C. Turpie Prize, given by the American Studies Association, for distinguished teaching, service, and program development in that field. Brown Affiliations Africana Studies American Studies Research Areas celebrity | emancipation | empire | gender | motherhood | nation | race | slavery | the South | war On the Web In Inside Higher Ed, on safety and safe spaces Reviewing a new pop novel in the New Republic In the New Republic, on the racial politics of track and field In the New York Times, writing with Caroline Levander about a Supreme Court decision On WNYC, talking about Josephine Baker On Rhode Island Public Radio, talking about the Confederate Flag. In The New Republic, writing about the NYPD In the Washington Post’s “Wonkblog,” for a Q & A about the meaning of the Confederate Flag In the New Republic, on David Brooks, public intellectuals, and morality. In Inside Higher Ed, writing about the #GraftonLine On the UNC press page, writing with Caroline Levander about collaboration Quoted in the New York Times, on the demise of "Caucasian' On Josephine Baker and the Civil Rights Movement,” in the New Republic In the Guardian, writing about Ferguson. In The New Republic, writing about Eric Garner In IHE, thinking about the humanities In the Chronicle, interviewed about the teaching of "race" In the Chronicle, talking about the "open curriculum" Publications Visualize it View All (24) Book (5) Article (19) Guterl, Matthew Levander, Caroline. Hotel Life. University of North Carolina Press, 2015. Guterl, M. P. "JACQUELINE JONES. A Dreadful Deceit: The Myth of Race from the Colonial Era to Obama's America." The American Historical Review, vol. 119, no. 5, 2014, pp. 1634-1636. Full Text Josephine Baker and the Rainbow Tribe. Harvard University Press, 2014. More Info Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "The Colors of Zion: Blacks, Jews, and Irish, from 1845 to 1945 by George Bornstein (review)." American Jewish History, vol. 97, no. 3, 2013, pp. 317-319. Full Text Guterl, M. P. "Comment: The Futures of Transnational History." The American Historical Review, vol. 118, no. 1, 2013, pp. 130-139. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Jean Toomer and the History of Passing." Reviews in American History, vol. 41, no. 1, 2013, pp. 113-121. Full Text Seeing Race in Modern America. University of North Carolina Press, 2013. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Anne Anlin Cheng. Second Skin: Josephine Baker and the Modern Surface." Black Camera, vol. 4, no. 1, 2012, pp. 252-254. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Mary Chesnut's Civil War Epic (review)." The Journal of the Civil War Era, vol. 1, no. 4, 2011, pp. 563-565. Full Text Guterl, M. P. "Refugee Planters: Henry Watkins Allen and the Hemispheric South." Am Lit Hist, vol. 23, no. 4, 2011, pp. 724-750. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Review Race and Nature: From Transcendentalism to the Harlem Renaissance Outka Paul Palgrave Macmillan New York." Journal of American Ethnic History, vol. 30, no. 3, 2011, pp. 93-94. Full Text Guterl, M. P. "Shadowing the White Man's Burden: U.S. Imperialism and the Problem of the Color Line." Journal of American History, vol. 98, no. 1, 2011, pp. 219-220. Full Text Guterl, M. P. "The Art of the Americas Wing." Journal of American History, vol. 98, no. 1, 2011, pp. 134-138. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Josephine Baker's Colonial Pastiche." Black Camera, vol. 1, no. 2, 2010, pp. 25-37. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "Slavery in White and Black: Class and Race in the Southern Slaveholders' New World Order." Slavery & Abolition, vol. 31, no. 4, 2010, pp. 551-552. Full Text Matthew Pratt Guterl, None. "Josephine Baker’s “Rainbow Tribe”: Radical Motherhood in the South of France." Journal of Women's History, vol. 21, no. 4, 2009, pp. 38-58. Full Text Matthew Pratt Guterl, None. "The Importance of Place in Post-Everything American Studies." American Quarterly, vol. 61, no. 4, 2009, pp. 931-941. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. ":The Color of Fascism: Lawrence Dennis, Racial Passing, and the Rise of Right‐Wing Extremism in the United States." AM HIST REV, vol. 113, no. 4, 2008, pp. 1197-1197. Full Text American Mediterranean: Southern Slaveholders in the Age of Emancipation. Harvard University Press, 2008. Full Text Guterl, M. P. "I Went to the West Indies": Race, Place, and the Antebellum South." Am Lit Hist, vol. 18, no. 3, 2006, pp. 446-467. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. ":Murdering McKinley: The Making of Theodore Roosevelt's America." AM HIST REV, vol. 110, no. 5, 2005, pp. 1547-1548. Full Text Guterl, M. "Atlantic and Pacific Crossings: Race, Empire, and "the Labor Problem" in the Late Nineteenth Century." Radical History Review, vol. 2005, no. 91, 2005, pp. 40-61. Full Text Guterl, Matthew Pratt. "A Note on the Word White." American Quarterly, vol. 56, no. 2, 2004, pp. 439-447. Full Text The Color of Race in America, 1900-1940. Harvard University Press, 2001. Full Text Research Research Overview Matthew Pratt Guterl studies the American histories of "race" and "nation" in an international context. He considers how these concepts have evolved over time, how they relate to each other at important moments, how certain social forces that have shaped them, and how ordinary and extraordinary people are caught up in their histories. He is the author of 4 books on topics ranging from 19th century slavery to 20th century civil rights movements to 21st century technologies of racial sight. Research Statement I earned my PhD in American History from Rutgers in 1999, specializing in African American history and Global/Comparative history. In the years since the degree, my research interests have developed and expanded both temporally and geographically. Over this same span, I have written several books on nineteenth and twentieth century topics, all of them related to the histories of race, nation, and empire. I started my first tenure-stream job in 2000, at Washington State University, in the department of Comparative Ethnic Studies. There, I finished work on my first book, The Color of Race in America, published by Harvard in 2001. I had been struggling, as a graduate student, to read the “culture wars” through debates over immigration, race-relations, and multiculturalism. The then-recent introduction of a “bi-racial” category had left me wondering whether “whiteness” and “blackness” had a longer history, too, and whether these seemingly fixed categories had shifted or realigned in earlier moments. In our contemporary debates about multiculturalism and canon-formation, I also heard echoes of the history of wartime and postwar pluralism in the 1910s and 1920s and the history of the Harlem Renaissance. The Color of Race was meant to address these concerns. Illuminating the cultural and intellectual history of race in early twentieth century New York, I argued that a global and comparatively uniform sense of whiteness and blackness came to dominate the national conversation about race-relations – erasing older systems of classification. This dramatic change was driven, I concluded, by war, empire, and migration. Wanting to understand how this transformation was experienced “on the ground,” I used four micro-biographies to give the book a firm structure – those of Irish-American nationalist Daniel Cohalan, “old stock” white supremacist Madison Grant, African American intellectual W.E.B. Du Bois, and the mixed-race novelist Jean Toomer. Through their lives, I traced the inchoate, internationalist beginnings of the civil rights movement, one phase of global white supremacy, the final transformation of the Irish, once imagined as a separate race, into whiteness, and the erasure of other possibilities from the language of race. The biography of Jean Toomer was, in many ways, the heart and soul of the book: his endless writing and re-writing of his unpublished autobiographies, and his attempt therein to express how the world was changing all around him, reducing his “mixed” position to a forgotten antique, drove the book’s argument and defined its tone. Finishing the book raised new questions for me about the role of the nation-state in shaping race. I had addressed a transnational context, and gestured to histories outside of the U.S., but the book had been largely a local study, based in New York, and I wondered how a bigger canvas might reveal a different story. Struggling, I hastily sketched out a drafty proposal for a second project in the twentieth century. I was extremely fortunate, at this point, to get a two-year fellowship at Brown University’s Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America. The CSREA had a reputation for being a sort of critically-informed “Birmingham West,” a reference to the Cultural Studies tradition in Britain. Brown’s History and American Studies department were, additionally, renowned for producing scholarship that spotlighted the complex dynamics between race, gender, nation, and empire. I found Brown to be welcoming – and incredibly generative. Exploring the origins of the story I’d told in The Color of Race, I moved the new project slightly back in time to the nineteenth century. Interested in what lay beyond the local, the national, and the global, I considered a new, complementary interest in the hemispheric and on “the South.” Testing the limits of Paul Gilroy’s notion of a “black Atlantic,” I asked whether one might re-read slaveholding as an authoritarian transnational network of affiliation, circulation, and exchange, and wondered if diaspora could be seen as an expression of global power. The CSREA and Brown gave me time and intellectual support to re-imagine a very different – and much more focused – book. Eventually published by Harvard as American Mediterranean: Southern Slaveholders in the Age of Emancipation (2008), this second project offered a new portrait of the slaveholding class, typically defined as close-minded and parochial, which I interpreted, in contrast, as internationalist, well-travelled, and nakedly ambitious. I wanted to complicate decades of work that assumed, first and foremost, that the borders of the United States were, in the wake of the Civil War, a perfect frame for Southern history. I also wanted to take a skeptical posture toward the actions of the nation-state, and shine a new light on the border-crossing social worlds of the long nineteenth century. I portrayed the Old South as the northern border of the Caribbean, as the southern border of the continental republic, and as a threshold to a hemispheric, transnational community. I reworked the story of Reconstruction so that it was not merely about legislative battles between North and South, but also about the Master Class’s effort to learn, rapidly and with some grim success, from post-emancipation societies throughout the Caribbean and world history. When I left the CSREA in 2003, the project had been completely reimagined and half the book was written. I moved on to a new job at Indiana University, where, once again, I benefitted from a supportive colleagues and a rich intellectual environment. It was at Indiana, going up for tenure and promotion in 2005, that I began to wrestle with another set of projects. The first was a wide-ranging, cultural history of racial profiling, eventually published by the University of North Carolina Press in 2013 as Seeing Race in Modern America. Seeing Race began as an effort to understand how and why there came to be so much certainly attached to racial sight, and the eventual story took readers from the nineteenth century “technology” of mugshots right up to the killing of Trayvon Martin. The second project I began at IU was, in many ways, bigger and more ambitious: a life of Josephine Baker. Long interested in the cultural history of African American expressive culture and actively engaged in study of race and diaspora, I started to collect ideas and background materials on Baker, whose post-WWII human rights work appeared to address these interests in very confusing, revealing, and idiosyncratic ways. The prospect of a return to biography appealed to me. American Mediterranean was a big, sprawling book, mimicking the transnational network I’d uncovered; only one of its chapters was biographical. I wanted to take up the same general interest in race and nation globally, but I also wanted a closer focus on individual motivation and personal history. In Baker’s case, I hoped to restore rationality and pragmatism to her biographical canon, wherein her postwar adventures had long been dismissed – in disturbingly gendered terms – as crazy. The Baker book was a mammoth project, with an inchoate, disorganized archive spanning four continents, multiple languages, and a great many technical and interpretive challenges. When it was finally complete, the book focused on her later years, when the world’s first black superstar adopted twelve children of different races, and moved them to the south of France to live in a castle set in the middle of an antiracist theme-park. Tracing Baker’s political movements from Casablanca to Buenos Aires to Helsinki to New York and to the March on Washington, I linked her family to the histories of the Algerian crisis, the Civil Rights Movement, decolonization, the Harlem Renaissance, Black Power, and the formation of the United Nations. Her vast multi-racial family, I argued, was meant to illuminate the racism of the United States by calling attention to the family she had built outside of it, but it was also a forceful intervention into the crumbling republic’s racial politics, an attempt to bring the French ideal to life – and to simultaneously remove it from France – at exactly the moment when decolonization and revolution revealed the depths of Gallic prejudice. Baker’s unusual antiracist politics, I revealed, cut across the usual divisions of the Cold War era, and understanding them demanded going beyond the usual polarities of “black” and “white,” “radical” and “conservative,” “American” and “French.” Those same politics drafted ordinary people into a celebrity’s wake, with profoundly sad consequences. I received a lot of support from IU, and from a one-semester stay to the Humanities Research Center at Rice University, where I was an NEH Visiting fellow. Still, it was a return to Brown – now as a faculty member – in the fall of 2012 that brought the project to a close. After the completion of Seeing Race in Modern America, I wrote the bulk of the Baker biography in the summer of 2013. Colleagues and administrators supported the project generously – in a hundred different ways – right up to its publication by Harvard in 2014. At that point, I picked up the story of Roger Casement. The Casement project is, I believe, an apt capstone for a career thinking about race and nation, diaspora and empire. All of the work discussed here in this narrative has prepared me to write something new on Casement, whose archive is global, whose politics bridge multiple networks, whose sense of self complicates race and nation, and whose life connects histories of sex and gender and queerness with histories of empire. Funded Research N/A Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1999 PhD Rutgers University 1993 BA Richard Stockton College of New Jersey Honors and Awards Mary Turpie Prize for Distinguished Teaching, Advising, and Program Development, American Studies Association, 2010. Distinguished Alumni Award, School of Arts and Humanities, Richard Stockton College of New Jersey, 2010. Lynette S. Autry/NEH Visiting Fellow, Humanities Research Center, Rice University, Spring 2010. Honorable Mention, 2009 Gordon K. and Sybil Lewis Award, Caribbean Studies Association, for American Mediterranean: Southern Slaveholders in the Age of Emancipation. Postdoctoral Fellowship, Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America, Brown University, 2001-2003. Best Book of 2001 on the History of Race and Ethnicity, American Political Science Association, for The Color of Race in America, 1900-1940. Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship, the Library Company of Philadelphia and the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 2001. Associate Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Slavery, Abolition, and Resistance Program, Gilder Lehrman Center, Yale University, 2001. Nominee, Faculty of the Year Award, Disability Awareness Association, Washington State University, 2001. Research Travel Grant, John Hope Franklin Research Center for African and African-American Documentation, Rare Book, Manuscript, and Special Collections Library, Duke University, 2001. New Faculty Seed Grant, Washington State University, 2001. Bernadotte E. Schmitt Grant for Research in European, African, and Asian History, American Historical Association, 2000. Excellence Fellowship, Department of History, Rutgers University, 1998-1999. Predoctoral Fellowship, National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institution, 1998. Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations American Studies Association Organization of American Historians Southern Historical Association American Historical Association Teaching Teaching Overview As a faculty member at a high-touch “university-college,” I believe very strongly in undergraduate and graduate teaching. My undergraduate classes range from broad surveys of American mass culture to topical electives and required capstone classes - all are regularly full or oversubscribed. I have served as an honor’s thesis reader each year, and work closely with my advisees on every aspect of their research and composition. I work just as closely with graduate students on their pedagogy, their research, and their professionalization, and have overseen well over two dozen dissertations. I’ve taught exceptional and amazing students in classes that range from writing-intensive and research-intensive to project-based and performance-based at small liberal arts colleges, parochial colleges, big public R1s, elite “hidden Ivies,” and Brown. I’ve taught in Gen Ed curricula, in the open curriculum, and in most of the things that lie between. I’ve taught small seminars of six students, large lectures of two hundred, study abroad classes, innumerable independent studies, and a Winter-session class on Broadway musicals that closed with a bus-ride to Manhattan to see Hamilton. I have been involved in every step of curricular creation, from the very first pencil scratch on paper about a possible new degree to the final meeting with a state higher education board needed to approve a new BA. I teach in three rather different undergraduate concentrations – Africana Studies, Ethnic Studies, and American Studies – and advise first year undergraduate students who come with interests that span the university. One class I’ve been teaching recently reflects my teaching philosophy – and my respect for students as researchers. AFRI 0610, titled “Black Student Protest,” is a small freshman seminar. When I originally taught it in the fall of 2016, I worked with a team of students to develop a public facing archive of primary and secondary sources, drilling deep into the history of Brown, and then sharing their findings with the Providence community. The process compelled them to organize the materials for the public, to work on the aesthetics and design of the site, and to think broadly about how the national history of black student protest – we read across this history, from the New Negro protests at Howard and Fisk in the 1920s to the #BLM protests of the fall of 2015 – squared with Brown’s local history. I taught “Black Student Protest” again in the spring of 2019, and this time the class was charged not only with continuing the same work of deepening and broadening the archive, but also with redesigning the website. After discussion, they migrated it to Wix and reorganized the entire thing, from top to bottom. And then, at the semester’s close, I brought both sets of students together to discuss the archive, and the multi generational conversation was incredibly rich. Together, they left a “to-do” list for the next class to take it all up. In short, then, I see great value in small project-based classes, which build necessary skills beyond the ability to “do research” or to “do the reading.” I also encourage continued engagement with the class material long after you’ve received your grade. Students who took this class three years ago continue to be invested in the archive, which you can see here: https://www.read-write-resist-1968.com Teaching AFRI 0610 - Black Student Protest from Jim Crow to the Present AFRI 1100X - Black Speculative Fiction: World-Making and Alternative Universes, Science Fiction and Fantasy AFRI 1200X - The Art and Imagination of Josephine Baker AMST 1010 - Introduction to American Studies: American Icons AMST 1500B - Broadway Modern: Race, Gender, Class, and the American Musical AMST 2010 - Introduction to Interdisciplinary Methods AMST 2020E - Introduction to Interdisciplinary American Studies AMST 2220T - Slavery in the Recent American Imagination HMAN 2400B - Trans/Passing, In Theory About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO