Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Samuel E Perry title="Email Samuel_Perry@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Samuel E Perry Associate Professor of East Asian Studies, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature Overview My research brings together the fields of Korean and Japanese cultural history, literature and translation. It aligns itself with a body of scholarship that has reassessed activist formations around the world, and seeks to understand the strategies by which marginalized people have contested dominant cultures. Since I am interested in the role culture plays in political change, I embrace a capacious understanding of literature: in my research I draw on a broad array of cultural sources, including non-canonical works of fiction, reportage, memoires and other archival texts found in literary journals and activist newspapers. This allows me to ask a range of questions about the means by which activists mobilize social movements, the translation of justice and responsibility into cultural forms, and the ways in which ordinary people, communities, institutions and intellectuals tell their stories. With a PhD from the University of Chicago and a postdoctoral fellowship at Harvard University, I have spent many years in Japan and South Korea doing research, most recently in Tokyo, where I surveyed various archives for my next monograph "From Across the Genkai Sea: Japanese Culture and the Korean War." I have also been involved recently in two translation projects: Five Faces of Japanese Feminism: Crimson and Other Works (Univ. Hawaii Press, 2016) is a collection of translated stories by Sata Ineko, funded with a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts; "A Century of Queer Korean Fiction" will be the first anthology of homoerotic writings from Korea to be published in English. My teaching at Brown focuses broadly on Japanese and Korean culture, the historical relationship between Japan and Korea, as well as the translation of minority literary culture in both Japan and Korea. Brown Affiliations Comparative Literature East Asian Studies Research Areas Chang Hyŏk-chu | colonial Korea | Cultural history | Japan | Japanese literature | Kang Kyŏng-ae | Kim Talsu | Korean literature | Korean War | literature | Matsumoto Seicho | North Korea | postwar cultural history | proletarian culture | red purge | revolutionary culture | Sata Ineko | South Korea | translation theory | Zainichi Koreans On the Web Recasting Red Culture in Proletarian Japan: Childhood, Korea, and the Historical Avant-Garde Five Faces of Feminism: Crimson and Other Stories by Sata Ineko From Wŏnso Pond: A Novel National Endowment for the Arts: Writers' Corner Publications Visualize it View All (14) Review (5) Book Section (2) Book (3) Article (4) Samuel Perry. "Review of Queer Korea." The European Journal of Korean Studies, vol. 20, no. 1, 2020. "In Shinjuku" by Yang Sogil, translated by Samuel Perry." Zainichi Literature: Japanese Writings by Ethnic Koreans, edited by John Lie, Institute for East Asian Studies, University of California, Berkeley, University of California, 2019. "Early Narratives of the Korean War." Overcoming Empire in Post-Imperial Asia: Repatriation, Redress and Rebuilding, edited by Barak Kushner and Sherzod Muminov, London, England, Bloomsbury Academic, 2019, pp. 55-66. Samuel Perry. "Review of The Korean War in Asia: A Hidden History." Korea Journal, vol. 58, 2019. Samuel Perry. "Review of Intimate Empire: Collaboration and Colonial Modernity in Korea and Japan." Harvard Journal of Asiatic, vol. 78, no. 1, 2018. Samuel Perry. "Review of Red Love Across the Pacific: Political and Sexual Revolutions of the Twentieth Century." Journal of Asian Studies, vol. 76, no. 1, 2017. Full Text Samuel Perry. "Article Review of Simon Nantais, “Race to Subversion: Nationality and Koreans in Occupied Japan, 1945–1952”." H-Diplo, no. 611.28, 2016. Sata Ineko; Samuel Perry. Five Faces of Japanese Feminism: Crimson and Other Stories. edited by Samuel Perry, University of Hawaii, 2016. More Info Perry, Samuel. "Light and Dark by Natsume Sōseki." Translation Review, vol. 91, no. 1, 2015, pp. 67-69. Full Text Samuel Perry. Recasting Red Culture in Proletarian Japan: Childhood, Korea and the Historical Avant-garde. University of Hawai'i, 2014. Perry, Samuel. "The Context and Contradictions of Kang Kyŏng-ae’s Novel In’gan munje." Korean Studies, vol. 37, no. 1, 2013, pp. 99-123. Full Text Perry, S. "Empire of Texts in Motion: Chinese, Korean, and Taiwanese Transculturations of Japanese Literature." Comparative Literature, vol. 64, no. 3, 2012, pp. 334-337. Full Text Kang Kyŏng-ae; Samuel Perry. From Wŏnso Pond: A Korean Novel, translated by Samuel Perry. edited by Samuel Perry, The Feminist Press, 2009. Perry, S. "Korean as Proletarian: Ethnicity and Identity in Chang Hyok-chu's "Hell of the Starving." positions: east asia cultures critique, vol. 14, no. 2, 2006, pp. 279-309. Full Text Research Research Overview Perry's recent publications examine the revolutionary cultures of 20th century Japan and Korea. Focusing on the proletarian avant-garde and fiction about and by Koreans, his book, Recasting Red Culture in Proletarian Japan: Childhood, Korea and the Historical Avant-garde, shows how proletarian cultural workers in the 20s and 30s reconfigured culture into a vital social practice, opening up new critical spaces in the intersections of class, childhood, gender and ethnicity. He is currently writing a book called "From Across the Genkai Sea: Japanese Literature and the Korean War." Research Statement Perry's research focuses on lefist cultural practices and the historical relationship between Japan and Korea in the 20th century. His first book, From Wŏnso Pond is a translation of, and critical introduction to, Kang Kyŏng-ae's 1934 newspaper novel In'gan munje, a classic of literary realism in the canons of both South Korea and the DPRK, which was issued in 2009 by The Feminist Press. His second book, Recasting Red Culture in Proletarian Japan: Childhood, Korea and the Historical Avant-Garde examines the influential proletarian cultural movement that flourished in 1920s and 1930s Japan, and shows how the movement opened up new critical spaces in the intersections of class, popular culture, childhood, gender, and ethnicity. His third book is an anthology of Japanese fiction by Sata Ineko, a celebrated woman writer. The book is called Five Faces of Feminism: Crimson and Other Stories. Currently Professor Perry is writing a book called "From Across the Genkai Sea: Japanese Literature and the Korean War," a book which will examine a body of writing and cultural activism from the 1950s and beyond in an effort to understand Japan's experience as host and headquarters for US forces during the tragic conflict that broke out in its former colony. The project aims to shed light on how different groups experienced the Korean War affectively in Japan: members of the ideologically split Communist Party, the divided ethnic Korean community in Japan, everyday citizens employed in and nearby US bases on the Japanese islands, and the Japanese colonialists repatriated from the Korean colony after WWII. By reading media reports, letters to the editor, fiction, propaganda and poetry written by and about members of these different communities—whose experiences lay in many ways on the margins of mainstream Japan—Professor Perry's research not only offers a new transnational perspective on America's "forgotten" Korean War, but also an examination of how this perspective set in place narratives of class and ethnicity in Japan that would continue to be influential for decades to come. Funded Research 2016-17 American Council of Learned Societies, held at the University of Cambridge 2013-14 Japan Foundation Research Fellowship, Tokyo. 2013 National Endowment for the Arts, Translation Fellowship. 2011 Visiting Scholar, Center for the Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. 2010-11 Visiting Scholar, University of California, Berkeley, Center for Japanese Studies. 2007-08 Postdoctoral Fellowship, Harvard University (jointly offered by The Reischauer Institute of Japanese Studies & The Korea Institute) 2007 Korean Literature Translation Institute Translation Award 2006 Center for East Asian Studies Dissertation Write-up Grant, University of Chicago. 2003-05 Fulbright Dissertation Research Grant, University of Hokkaido, Sapporo, Japan. 2003-04 International Communications Foundation Graduate Translation Fellowship. 2002-03 Korea Foundation Research Fellowship, Seoul, South Korea. 2001-02 Korea Foundation Language Training Fellowship, Seoul, South Korea. 1997-2001 University Unendowed Fellowship, Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations. Scholarly Work Crimson and Other Works by Sata Ineko. Translated and Introduced by Samuel Perry. Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press, 2017. Review of Light and Dark by Natsume Soseki. Translated by Jonathan Nathan. New York, NY: Columbia University Press, 2014. In Translation Review 91 (Spring 2015). Recasting Red Culture in Proletarian Japan: Childhood, Korea and the Historical Avant-Garde Honolulu: University of Hawai'i Press, 2014. “The Context and Contradictions of Kang Kyŏng-ae’s Novel In’gan munje.” Korean Studies, volume 37 (2013): 99-123. "Feminizumu wo aka de kaku: Kan Keiai no 'Ningen mondai' ni okeru bungakuteki mujun" (Written in Japanese). In Kobayashi Takiji shinpojiumu hōkokushū. Otaru: Otaru Shōka daigaku shuppankai, 2012. Review of Empire of Texts in Motion: Chinese, Korean, and Taiwanese Transculturations of Japanese Literature by Karen Thornber. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Asia Center, 2010. In Comparative Literature 64:3 (Summer 2012). Translation of Sata Ineko, "White and Purple." Winner of the 2010 William F. Sibley Memorial Translation Prize in Japanese Literature. Published May, 2011, on-line with introduction at: http://ceas.uchicago.edu/japanese/Sibley_Translation_Project.shtml Review of The Proletarian Gamble: Korean Workers in Interwar Japan by Ken C. Kawashima. Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 2009. In the International Journal of Asian Studies 7, no. 2 (July 2010): 242-44. "Kyōshitsu no shakai kankei—Nihon to shokuminchi jidai no Chōsen hantō ni okeru kakumeiteki jidō no bungaku hyōshō" ["Social Relations of the Classroom—Literary Representation of Revolutionary Children in Japan and Colonial Korea"], translated into Japanese by Shimamura Teruo, in Iida Yūko ed. Shōnen shōjo no poritikkusu, Tokyo: Seikyūsha, 2009. From Wŏnso Pond: A Korean Novel by Kang Kyŏng-ae. Translated and introduced by Samuel Perry. New York: The Feminist Press, 2009. "Korean as Proletarian: Ethnicity and Identity in Chang Hyŏk-chu's 'Hell of the Starving.'" Positions: East Asia Cultures Critique, 14:2 (Duke University Press, 2006): 279-309. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2007 PhD University of Chicago 2000 MA University of Chicago 1991 BA Brown University Honors and Awards 2016-17 American Council of Learned Societies Research Fellowship 2013-14 Japan Foundation Research Fellowship 2013 National Endowment for the Arts, Translation Fellowship Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Operario, Don Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Affiliations Association of Asian Studies American Literary Translation Association Modern Language Association Teaching Teaching Overview I have taught classes at Brown on East Asian popular culture, Korean and Japanese literature, revolutionary culture, queer culture, childhood, women's literature, and the practice of translating fiction and poetry. In the future I look forward to teaching classes on Japanese and Korean film as well. Teaching COLT 0711O - Off the Beaten Path: The Diversity of Modern Japanese Literature COLT 0711Q - Writing Love in Korean Literature EAST 0350 - Empire and its Aftermath: Modern Culture in Japan and the Koreas EAST 0350 - Pop and Political: Modern Culture in Japan and the Koreas EAST 0500 - Childhood and Culture in Japan EAST 0800 - Off the Beaten Path: A Survey of Modern Japanese Literature EAST 1090 - Translating Korean: Fiction, Poetry & Film EAST 1950H - Translating Japanese: Short Fiction, Poetry, Film and Manga EAST 1950W - Translating Korean: Fiction, Poetry, Film and K-Pop EAST 1950X - Queer Japan: Culture, History and Sexuality JAPN 1990 - Advanced Readings in Japanese Literature JAPN 1990 - In Their Own Words: Advanced Readings in Japanese Literature and Criticism KREA 1090 - Translating Korean: Fiction, Poetry & Film About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO