Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Banu Ozkazanc-Pan title="Email banu_ozkazanc-pan@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Banu Ozkazanc-Pan Associate Professor of the Practice of Engineering Overview Banu Ozkazanc-Pan is Professor of Practice at the School of Engineering and Academic Director of the IE Brown EMBA program. She is also the Founder and Director of the Venture Capital Inclusion Lab at the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. The Lab was started in 2018 with funds from her $260,000 Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation grant examining the decision-making and network behaviors of VCs. The Lab focuses on understanding and solving funding inequities in the VC industry through data-driven research, education and advocacy. Banu’s research interests are mainly in the areas of diversity and inclusion in organizations and in entrepreneurial ecosystems. Recently, Banu contributed her expertise to the 2021 UNGPs10+ consultation on the gender dimensions of business and human rights, which is intended to inform the work of the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights’ UNGPs10+ ‘next decade’ project. She also contributed her expertise to the 2021 gender dimensions of business and human rights via the Danish Institute for Human Rights. Her piece in The Conversation, focusing on the intersections of gender, inclusion and tech, has over 33,000 reads and offers ideas and steps that are necessary for the tech sector to become inclusive. It was chosen for essential reading in relation to sexual harassment and discrimination in tech particularly in regards to the Activation Blizzard lawsuit. She is currently a member of CNBC’s Disruptor 50 Advisory Council Member and Academic Director at Brown University for the IE Brown Executive MBA. Banu is currently Joint Editor in Chief of Gender, Work & Organization and the author of Transnational Migration and The New Subjects of Work: Transmigrants, Hybrids and Cosmopolitans. She has two forthcoming books with Cambridge University Press titled Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: A Critical Gender Perspective (2021) and A Transnational Approach to Entrepreneurial Ecosystems (2022). She can be reached at banu_ozkazanc-pan@brown.edu. Her TedXBrownU talk with Emily Wanderer on inclusion in the social entrepreneurship field was live-streamed on November 19, 2020. Brown Affiliations Engineering Research Areas culture | entrepreneurship | gender | inclusion | Leadership | migration and transnationalism On the Web Venture Capital Inclusion Lab Personal Website Publications Visualize it View All (13) Other (12) Book (1) Özkazanç-Pan, Banu. "Feminist Writing in a Gendered Transnational World: Women on the Move?." Writing Differently, 2020, pp. 13-24. Full Text Pullen, Alison, Lewis, Patricia, Ozkazanc‐Pan, Banu. "A critical moment: 25 years of Gender, Work and Organization." Gender, Work & Organization, vol. 26, no. 1, 2019, pp. 1-8. Full Text Vashist, Aditi, Hewlin, Patricia Faison, Wu, Tina, Emily, Emily, Harrison, David A., Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu, Perkins, Susan, Ponce de Leon, Rebecca, Ramarajan, Lakshmi, Rosette, Ashleigh Shelby, Zhou Koval, Christy. "An Interdisciplinary Path for Intersectional Research." Academy of Management Proceedings, vol. 2019, no. 1, 2019, pp. 11342. Full Text Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu. "Diversity and future of work: inequality abound or opportunities for all?." Management Decision, vol. ahead-of-print, no. ahead-of-print, 2019. Full Text Transnational Migration and the New Subjects of Work: Transmigrants, Hybrids and Cosmopolitans. Bristol University Press, 2019. More Info Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu. "Superdiversity”: a new paradigm for inclusion in a transnational world." Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: An International Journal, vol. 38, no. 4, 2019, pp. 477-490. Full Text Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu. "Bowen and Hisrich (1986) on the Female Entrepreneur: 30 Years of Research and New Directions for Gender and Entrepreneurship Scholarship." Foundational Research in Entrepreneurship Studies, 2018, pp. 103-126. Full Text Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu. "CSR as Gendered Neocoloniality in the Global South." Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 160, no. 4, 2018, pp. 851-864. Full Text "Foundational Research in Entrepreneurship Studies." [], 2018. Full Text Gupta, Vishal K., Guo, Grace Chun, Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu. "Introduction." Foundational Research in Entrepreneurship Studies, 2018, pp. 1-12. Full Text Ozkazanc-Pan, Banu, Clark Muntean, Susan. "Networking towards (in)equality: Women entrepreneurs in technology." Gender, Work & Organization, vol. 25, no. 4, 2018, pp. 379-400. Full Text Ozkazanc‐Pan, Banu. "On agency and empowerment in a #MeToo world." Gender, Work & Organization, vol. 26, no. 8, 2018, pp. 1212-1220. Full Text "Women in tech suffer because of American myth of meritocracy." The Conversation, 2018. More Info Research Research Overview Banu's research interests focus on diversity and inclusion in technology and innovation ecosystems as well as in entrepreneurial ecosystems nationally and globally. Her research on networks in technology incubators and accelerators demonstrates how the benefits of social networks in such contexts may not benefit women entrepreneurs and how such organizations may end up playing a gatekeeping role in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2009 PhD University of Massachusetts, Amherst 2000 MBA Loyola University Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Nazareno, Jennifer Barrett Hazeltine Assistant Professor of the Practice of Entrepreneurship, Associate Director of the Online MPH Program Teaching Teaching EMSL 2400 - Entrepreneurial Leadership in Innovative Firms EMSL 2610 - South Korea: Rise of a Technology Leader ENGN 1931N - Building Entrepreneurial Ecosystems for Economic Inclusion ENGN 2180 - Globalization Immersion Experience and Entrepreneurship Laboratory SOC 1060 - Leadership in Organizations SOC 1220 - Future of Work About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO