Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Mauro Rodriguez title="Email mauro_rodriguez@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Mauro Rodriguez Assistant Professor of Engineering Overview Mauro Rodriguez Jr. is an Assistant Professor of Engineering in the School of Engineering at Brown University. In 2010, Rodriguez earned his B.S. degree with honors in Mechanical Science and Engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). In 2012, he received M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University as a graduate engineering fellow. He earned with Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor under the supervision of Associate Professor Eric Johnsen. Rodriguez's doctoral thesis focused on high-fidelity computational fluid dynamic simulations of bubble dynamics near (linear) viscoelastic media. Rodriguez was a Ford Foundation and National Science Foundation-Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate postdoctoral research fellow at the California Institute of Technology under the mentorship of Professor Tim Colonius. Rodriguez’s current research interests are in cavitation bubble dynamics in and near viscoelastic materials. He uses high-fidelity computational fluid dynamics to study wave and bubble dynamics in and near hard/soft materials relevant to energy science, naval engineering, and medical applications (e.g., desired cavitation in ultrasound therapy tools to treat pathogenic tissues). Brown Affiliations Engineering Research Areas Bubbles | Computational fluid dynamics | Droplets | fluid dynamics | Multiphase materials | viscoelasticity On the Web Rodriguez Flow Research Group Publications Visualize it Other (8) Mancia, Lauren, Rodriguez, Mauro, Sukovich, Jonathan R., Haskel, Scott, Xu, Zhen, Johnsen, Eric. "Acoustic Measurements of Nucleus Size Distribution at the Cavitation Threshold." Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology, vol. 47, no. 4, 2021, pp. 1024-1031. Full Text PubMed Spratt, Jean-Sebastien, Rodriguez, Mauro, Schmidmayer, Kevin, Bryngelson, Spencer H., Yang, Jin, Franck, Christian, Colonius, Tim. "Characterizing viscoelastic materials via ensemble-based data assimilation of bubble collapse observations." Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, vol. 152, 2021, pp. 104455. Full Text PubMed Mancia, Lauren, Rodriguez, Mauro, Sukovich, Jonathan, Xu, Zhen, Johnsen, Eric. "Single–bubble dynamics in histotripsy and high–amplitude ultrasound: Modeling and validation." Physics in Medicine & Biology, vol. 65, no. 22, 2020, pp. 225014. Full Text PubMed Rodriguez, M., Johnsen, E., Powell, K. G. "A high-order accurate AUSM$$^+$$-up approach for simulations of compressible multiphase flows with linear viscoelasticity." Shock Waves, vol. 29, no. 5, 2019, pp. 717-734. Full Text Rodriguez, Mauro, Johnsen, Eric. "A high-order accurate five-equations compressible multiphase approach for viscoelastic fluids and solids with relaxation and elasticity." Journal of Computational Physics, vol. 379, 2019, pp. 70-90. Full Text Wilson, Chad T., Hall, Timothy L., Johnsen, Eric, Mancia, Lauren, Rodriguez, Mauro, Lundt, Jonathan E., Colonius, Tim, Henann, David L., Franck, Christian, Xu, Zhen, Sukovich, Jonathan R. "Comparative study of the dynamics of laser and acoustically generated bubbles in viscoelastic media." Physical Review E, vol. 99, no. 4, 2019. Full Text PubMed Mancia, Lauren, Vlaisavljevich, Eli, Yousefi, Nyousha, Rodriguez, Mauro, Ziemlewicz, Timothy J, Lee, Fred T, Henann, David, Franck, Christian, Xu, Zhen, Johnsen, Eric. "Modeling tissue-selective cavitation damage." Physics in Medicine & Biology, vol. 64, no. 22, 2019, pp. 225001. Full Text PubMed Padhy, S., Rodriguez, M., Shaqfeh, E.S.G., Iaccarino, G., Morris, J.F., Tonmukayakul, N. "The effect of shear thinning and walls on the sedimentation of a sphere in an elastic fluid under orthogonal shear." Journal of Non-Newtonian Fluid Mechanics, vol. 201, 2013, pp. 120-129. Full Text Research Research Overview Eulerian methods, continuum mechanics, fluid mechanics, computational multi-phase and -component flow dynamics, diffused interfaces, non-linear viscoelasticity, cavitation bubble dynamics, droplets, high-strain-rate flow physics, fluid-structure interactions, high-performance computing, hybrid computing Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2018 PhD University of Michigan 2012 MS Stanford University 2010 BS University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Postdoctoral/Other Training Postdoctoral research fellow California Institute of Technology, Mechanical 2019-2021 Honors and Awards Ford Foundation postdoctoral research fellowship (2019) National Science Foundation-Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate postdoctoral research fellowship (2020) Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Henann, David James R. Rice Associate Professor of Solid Mechanics Zenit, Roberto Professor of Engineering Affiliations American Physical Society Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Teaching Teaching Overview I prepared students to achieve career-upward mobility in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) workforce (e.g., industry and academia). These experiences have shaped my teaching philosophy to be growth-mindset oriented and data-driven. My teaching philosophy is to empower and humanely develop the next generations of diverse critical thinkers at Brown University in a welcoming and inclusive environment. My teaching approach combines their gained self-efficacy and intrinsic knowledge, skills, abilities (KSAs) to solve engineering, human, and global problems. I have the following three measurable strategies. Setting a clear course structure with specific and measurable learning objectives and expectations of the student-educator roles and responsibilities Using teaching methods centered around inquiry-based teaching and course enjoyment Evaluating and reflecting on the students' gained KSAs and self-efficacy to improve This approach forms an intentional virtuous (feedback-loop) cycle for continuous growth of student outcomes and my teaching. About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO