Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Thalia L Field title="Email Thalia_Field@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Thalia L Field Adele Kellenberg Seaver Professor of Creative Writing, Faculty Director of the Brown Arts Institute Overview Thalia Field's most recent novel is EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS (A Reality Fiction) from Solid Objects Press. Thalia Field also has three books published with New Directions: POINT AND LINE (2000) and INCARNATE: STORY MATERIAL (2004) and BIRD LOVERS, BACKYARD. A performance novel, ULULU (CLOWN SHRAPNEL) was published by Coffee House press in 2008, with film stills by Bill Morrison, and a hybrid essay/poem co-authored with French writer Abigail Lang, A PRANK OF GEORGES, was published by Essay Press. Her forthcoming book, LEAVE TO REMAIN, will appear in 2018 from Dalkey Archive. Thalia's writing has also appeared in numerous journals and anthologies including Chicago Review, Ploughshares, Fence, Theater, Central Park, Chain, and Conjunctions, where she served as editor and senior editor from 1995-1999. Performance works and plays include THE POMPEII EXHIBIT, composed by Toshiro Saruya, which was awarded an NEA commission grant in 1992, and HEY-STOP-THAT which was published in Theater magazine and produced at various US venues. Brown Affiliations Literary Arts Research Areas animal studies | arts and environmental aesthetics | experimental arts | interdisciplinary arts Publications Visualize it Article (4) Field, Thalia, Lang, Abigail. "À la croisée." Vacarme, vol. 59, no. 2, 2012, pp. 85. Full Text Field, Thalia, Lang, Abigail. "À la croisée." Vacarme, vol. 59, no. 2, 2012, pp. 85. Full Text Field, Thalia. "This crime has a name." CANG, vol. 14, no. 2, 2009, pp. 77-82. Full Text Field, Thalia. "This crime has a name." CANG, vol. 14, no. 2, 2009, pp. 77-82. Full Text Research Research Overview Thalia Field is a writer working in interdisciplinary arts -- extending experimental fiction to multi-media and experimental performance. She has particular interests in animal stuides, ecology, and environmental poetics, Buddhist poetics and philosophy, as well as history of science and art. Research Statement EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS (A Reality Fiction), a book-length essay/fiction epic takes as its starting point, the life and work of French physiologist Claude Bernard, his wife Fanny and their children, and a handful of historical characters from 2nd Empire and 3eme Republic Paris. Combining historical and imaginative work, the book explores the origins of the "laboratory" and "experimental medicine" as they came to define science and fueled aesthetic thought in the modern period. POINT AND LINE (New Directions, 2000) is a collection of experimental prose, poetry, and drama, exploring the nature of language as it is used to identify characters and dramatic events. Combining a multitude of different "discourse fields" each piece creates a linguistic frame in which the impossibility and failure of "self" is dramatized. Pieces in the collection can be considered prose, poetry, lyric essay, or drama. INCARNATE:STORY MATERIAL (New Directions, 2004) collects a series of poetic, dramatic, and lyric essay works, each formally distinct and concerned with the ways in which being embodied, framed, named, and attached to "biography" serves to trouble narratives and language. More formally amorphous than the first collection, this book moves freely between birth, death, cartography, and issues of survival which move far beyond the human in scale. ULULU (Clown Shrapnel) is a full-length experimental novel, almost a "performance," which dramatizes the character "Lulu" -- from Wedekind's Erdgeist plays and Berg's opera -- to trace the history of the archetype as it winds through the cultural history of Europe in the nineteenth/early twentieth century. Focusing on the movement from commedia to clowning, the book also fragments biography and history into shards and shreds of a thousand-and-one lies and secret stories. A PRANK OF GEORGES, co-authored with French writer Abigail Lang, is a lyric essay exploring Gertrude Stein's use of proper names, and philosophical fun with the conflict between individual identity and group thinking. Scholarly Work LEAVE TO REMAIN, Dalkey Archive Press EXPERIMENTAL ANIMALS (A Reality Fiction) Solid Objects Press, NY BIRD LOVERS, BACKYARD New Directions Publishing Corp, NY A PRANK OF GEORGES, Essay Press ULULU (CLOWN SHRAPNEL) (Coffee House Press) INCARNATE:STORY MATERIAL (New Directions) POINT AND LINE (New Directions) Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1995 MFA Brown University 1988 BA Brown University Honors and Awards Joukowsky Assistant Professor, Brown University, 2004 National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Opera Commission, 1993 Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Association for the Study of Literature and the Environment (ASLE) Teaching Teaching Overview My teaching focuses on interdisciplinary arts, the practice and study of art/artists who work/have worked outside the traditions of any one genre. My courses tend to focus on writing as a core practice, with exploration of text in sculptural, environmental, performance and multi-media directions. Other aspects of my teaching include collaborative and innovative classroom techniques, as well as an approach to writing which encourages personalized research into both familiar and unfamiliar areas. Specific artists I have an interest in teaching in extended seminars include John Cage, Gertrude Stein and Bertolt Brecht. Also, I teach environmental and eco-poetics, animal studies, as well as contemplative/awareness practice approaches to writing. Teaching EMSL 2010 - Persuasive Communication LITR 1110R - Performance Dimensions of Text LITR 1150B - The Foreign Home: Interdisciplinary Arts LITR 1150M - Short Fiction Experiments LITR 1151N - Zoologic: Wild Animals in the Surveillance State LITR 2700 - Pedagogy Seminar About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO