Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Dixa Ramirez-D'Oleo title="Email dixa_ramirez@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Dixa Ramirez-D'Oleo Associate Professor of English Overview Dixa Ramírez-D’Oleo is Associate Professor in the English department. Her research and teaching focus on the literatures and histories of the extended Caribbean, focusing especially on the Dominican Republic and Haiti. She received her A.B. from Brown University in Comparative Literature and her PhD from the University of California, San Diego. Her first book, Colonial Phantoms: Belonging and Refusal in the Dominican Americas, from the 19th Century to the Present (NYU Press, 2019) argues that dominant Western discourses have ghosted the Dominican Republic despite its central place in the architecture of the Americas. It received the 2019 Barbara Christian Literary Award from the Caribbean Studies Association and the 2019 Isis Duarte Book Prize from the Haiti/Dominican Republic section at the Latin American Studies Association. Ramírez-D'Oleo is in the midst of manifesting her second book, Blackness and the Photographic Negative, which is under contract with Duke University Press. She is also finishing a third book, a long essay that critiques feminist and ecological new materialism. Ramírez-D’Oleo’s work appears in Atlantic Studies, The Black Scholar, Comparative Literature, Small Axe, Avidly, Hyperallergic, Los Angeles Review of Books, Social Text, ASAP/Journal, and in the Dominican media. She is also on the Editorial Committee of Small Axe and is Vice President and Incoming President of the Association for the Study of the Arts of the Present. Brown Affiliations English Research Areas African and African diaspora material culture | Anglophone Caribbean | Black studies | Caribbean literature | colonialism | Francophone Caribbean | hispanophone caribbean | Latin America | Photography--Aesthetics | postcolonial studies | Southern United States On the Web Access to Articles Publications Visualize it View All (16) Article (7) Other (6) Review (2) Book (1) "Broken Automatons and Barbed Ecologies in Ligia Lewis’s Choreographic Imaginary." Social Text, vol. 39, no. 2, 2021. Catherine Damman, Tina Post, Dixa Ramírez D'Oleo. "Roundtable on Ligia Lewis." ASAP/J, 2021. "Colin Dayan: A Conversation." Los Angeles Review of Books, 2020. More Info "Mushrooms and Mischief: On Questions of Blackness." Small Axe: A Caribbean Journal of Cultural Criticism, 2019. "Navigating the Portals Between Works by Ligia Lewis and Firelei Baez." Hyperallergic, 2019. More Info Colonial Phantoms: Belonging and Refusal in the Dominican Americas, from the Nineteenth Century to the Present. New York Univeristy Press, 2018. More Info "Against Type: Reading Desire in the Visual Archives of Dominican Subjects.”." Small Axe: A Caribbean Journal of Cultural Criticism, 2018. "Colonial Phantoms: Interview with Dixa Ramírez.”." Esendom, 2018. More Info "Violence, Literature, and Seduction.”." Avidly: A Channel of the Los Angeles Review of Books, 2018. More Info "Expanding the Dialogues: Afro-Latinx Feminisms." Latinx Talk, 2017. More Info "The Most Confederate Name in the Caribbean.”." Avidly: A Channel of the Los Angeles Review of Books, 2017. "Dominican Race and Gender before Trujillo and beyond Caribbean Studies." Small Axe: A Caribbean Journal of Cultural Criticism, 2016. "Forced Intimacies and Murky Genealogies in Hispaniola: Émile Ollivier’s Mère solitude (1987) and Marisela Rizik’s En el tiempo del olvido (1996)." Comparative Literature, vol. 67, no. 2, 2015. Full Text "Salomé Ureña’s Blurred Edges: Race, Gender, and Commemoration in the Dominican Republic." The Black Scholar, vol. 45, no. 2, 2015. Full Text "Great Men’s Magic: Charting Hyper-Masculinity and Supernatural Discourses of Power in Junot Díaz’s The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao." Atlantic Studies Journal, vol. 10, no. 3, 2013. Full Text "Por un patriotismo que no se base en el odio ni en la exclusión.”." Acento.com.do, 2013. Research Research Overview Areas of teaching and research include Caribbean literature (from the 16th century to the present), Black studies and theory, the African diaspora, hemispheric American studies, gender studies, geography and race, and the plantation system and wilderness. Ramírez-D'Oleo's favorite objects include prose writings, films, the visual arts, photography, and ephemera. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2012 PhD University of California, San Diego 2008 MPhil University of California, San Diego 2004 AB Brown University Honors and Awards 2019 Barbara Christian Literary Award (Caribbean Studies Association) 2019 Isis Duarte Book Prize (Haiti/Dominican Republic Section of the Latin American Studies Association) Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations 2012 - 2013 Postdoctoral Research Associate, Center for African American Studies, Princeton University 2013 - 2018 Assistant Professor, American Studies and Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, Yale University Teaching Teaching AMST 1902U - Zombies Pirates Ghosts Witches AMST 2010 - Introduction to Interdisciplinary Methods AMST 2220Q - The Homo Sapiens at the End of the World; or, Readings in Race Theory ENGL 1711N - Monsters in our Midst: The Plantation and the Woods in Trans-American Literature ENGL 1761B - Narratives of Blackness in Latinx and Latin America ENGL 1762M - Caribbean Literature HMAN 2401D - The Fugitivity of Slowness, Stillness, and Stasis About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO