Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Brenda M Rubenstein title="Email brenda_rubenstein@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Brenda M Rubenstein Associate Professor of Chemistry Overview ScB., Chemical Physics, Brown University, 2007 MPhil, Theoretical Chemistry, University of Cambridge, 2008 PhD, Chemical Physics, Columbia University, 2013 Lawrence Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellow, LLNL, 2013-2016 Joined the Brown Chemistry Department in 2016 Brown Affiliations Chemistry Research Areas Machine learning | Molecular biophysics | Molecular computing | Quantum chemistry | Quantum electronics | Quantum physics | statistical mechanics | Theoretical chemistry On the Web Rubenstein Group Website Publications Visualize it View All (34) Other (14) Article (16) Conference Paper (2) Book (1) Review (1) Dombroski, Amanda, Oakley, Kady, Arcadia, Christopher, Nouraei, Farnaz, Chen, Shui Ling, Rose, Christopher, Rubenstein, Brenda, Rosenstein, Jacob, Reda, Sherief, Kim, Eunsuk. "Implementing parallel arithmetic via acetylation and its application to chemical image processing." Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 477, no. 2248, 2021. Full Text Arcadia, Christopher E., Dombroski, Amanda, Oakley, Kady, Chen, Shui Ling, Tann, Hokchhay, Rose, Christopher, Kim, Eunsuk, Reda, Sherief, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Leveraging autocatalytic reactions for chemical domain image classification." Chemical Science, vol. 12, no. 15, 2021, pp. 5464-5472. Full Text PubMed Church, Matthew S., Rubenstein, Brenda M. "Real-time dynamics of strongly correlated fermions using auxiliary field quantum Monte Carlo." The Journal of Chemical Physics, vol. 154, no. 18, 2021, pp. 184103. Full Text PubMed Kennedy, Eamonn, Geiser, Joseph, Arcadia, Christopher E., Weber, Peter M., Rose, Christopher, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Secret messaging with endogenous chemistry." Scientific Reports, vol. 11, no. 1, 2021. Full Text PubMed Shen, Tong, Liu, Yuan, Yu, Yang, Rubenstein, Brenda M. "Finite temperature auxiliary field quantum Monte Carlo in the canonical ensemble." The Journal of Chemical Physics, vol. 153, no. 20, 2020, pp. 204108. Full Text PubMed Hao, Hongxia, Georges, Antoine, Millis, Andrew J., Rubenstein, Brenda, Han, Qiang, Shi, Hao. "Metal-insulator and magnetic phase diagram of Ca2RuO4 from auxiliary field quantum Monte Carlo and dynamical mean field theory." Physical Review B, vol. 101, no. 23, 2020. Full Text Arcadia, Christopher E., Kennedy, Eamonn, Geiser, Joseph, Dombroski, Amanda, Oakley, Kady, Chen, Shui-Ling, Sprague, Leonard, Ozmen, Mustafa, Sello, Jason, Weber, Peter M., Reda, Sherief, Rose, Christopher, Kim, Eunsuk, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Multicomponent molecular memory." Nature Communications, vol. 11, no. 1, 2020, pp. 691. Full Text PubMed Yuan, Dao-Fu, Liu, Yuan, Qian, Chen-Hui, Zhang, Yue-Rou, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Wang, Lai-Sheng. "Observation of a π -Type Dipole-Bound State in Molecular Anions." Physical Review Letters, vol. 125, no. 7, 2020. Full Text PubMed Liu, Yuan, Zhu, Guo-Zhu, Yuan, Dao-Fu, Qian, Chen-Hui, Zhang, Yue-Rou, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Wang, Lai-Sheng. "Observation of a Symmetry-Forbidden Excited Quadrupole-Bound State." Journal of the American Chemical Society, vol. 142, no. 47, 2020, pp. 20240-20246. Full Text PubMed Yuan, Dao-Fu, Liu, Yuan, Qian, Chen-Hui, Kocheril, G. Stephen, Zhang, Yue-Rou, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Wang, Lai-Sheng. "Polarization of Valence Orbitals by the Intramolecular Electric Field from a Diffuse Dipole-Bound Electron." The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters, vol. 11, no. 18, 2020, pp. 7914-7919. Full Text PubMed Yang J, Naik N, Patel JS, Wylie CS, Gu W, Huang J, Ytreberg FM, Naik MT, Weinreich DM, Rubenstein BM. "Predicting the viability of beta-lactamase: How folding and binding free energies correlate with beta-lactamase fitness." PLOS ONE, vol. 15, no. 5, 2020, pp. e0233509. Full Text PubMed Rosenstein, Jacob K., Rose, Christopher, Reda, Sherief, Weber, Peter M., Kim, Eunsuk, Sello, Jason, Geiser, Joseph, Kennedy, Eamonn, Arcadia, Christopher, Dombroski, Amanda, Oakley, Kady, Chen, Shui Ling, Tann, Hokchhay, Rubenstein, Brenda M. "Principles of Information Storage in Small-Molecule Mixtures." IEEE Transactions on NanoBioscience, vol. 19, no. 3, 2020, pp. 378-384. Full Text PubMed Kent, P. R. C., Annaberdiyev, Abdulgani, Benali, Anouar, Bennett, M. Chandler, Landinez Borda, Edgar Josué, Doak, Peter, Hao, Hongxia, Jordan, Kenneth D., Krogel, Jaron T., Kylänpää, Ilkka, Lee, Joonho, Luo, Ye, Malone, Fionn D., Melton, Cody A., Mitas, Lubos, Morales, Miguel A., Neuscamman, Eric, Reboredo, Fernando A., Rubenstein, Brenda, Saritas, Kayahan, Upadhyay, Shiv, Wang, Guangming, Zhang, Shuai, Zhao, Luning. "QMCPACK: Advances in the development, efficiency, and application of auxiliary field and real-space variational and diffusion quantum Monte Carlo." The Journal of Chemical Physics, vol. 152, no. 17, 2020, pp. 174105. Full Text PubMed Liu, Yuan, Shen, Tong, Zhang, Hang, Rubenstein, Brenda. "Unveiling the Finite Temperature Physics of Hydrogen Chains via Auxiliary Field Quantum Monte Carlo." Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, vol. 16, no. 7, 2020, pp. 4298-4314. Full Text PubMed Foulon, Benjamin L., Liu, Yuan, Rosenstein, Jacob K., Rubenstein, Brenda M. "A Language for Molecular Computation." Chem, vol. 5, no. 12, 2019, pp. 3017-3019. Full Text Hongxia Hao, Brenda Rubenstein, and Hao Shi. "Auxiliary field quantum Monte Carlo for multiband Hubbard models: Controlling the sign and phase problems to capture Hund's physics." Physical Review B, vol. 99, 2019, pp. 235142. Full Text Kennedy E, Arcadia CE, Geiser J, Weber PM, Rose C, Rubenstein BM, Rosenstein JK. "Encoding Information in Synthetic Metabolomes." PLoS ONE, vol. 14, no. 7, 2019, pp. e0217364. Full Text PubMed Cong, R., Nanguneri, Ravindra, Rubenstein, Brenda, Mitrović, V. F. "Evidence from first-principles calculations for orbital ordering in Ba2NaOsO6 : A Mott insulator with strong spin-orbit coupling." Physical Review B, vol. 100, no. 24, 2019. Full Text Sprague, Leonard W., Huang, Cancan, Song, Jeong-Pil, Rubenstein, Brenda M. "Maximizing Thermoelectric Figures of Merit by Uniaxially Straining Indium Selenide." The Journal of Physical Chemistry C, vol. 123, no. 41, 2019, pp. 25437-25447. Full Text Keith G Ray, Brenda M Rubenstein, Wenze Gu, and Vincenzo Lordi. "vdW-Corrected Density Functional Study of Electric Field Noise Heating in Ion Traps Caused by Electrode Surface Adsorbates." New Journal of Physics, vol. 21, 2019. More Info Yuan Liu, Minsik Cho, and Brenda Rubenstein. "Ab Initio Finite Temperature Auxiliary Field Quantum Monte Carlo." journal of chemical theory and computation, 2018. Full Text PubMed Hongxia Hao, James Shee, Shiv Upadhyay, Can Ataca, Kenneth D. Jordan, and Brenda M. Rubenstein. "Accurate Predictions of Electron Binding Energies of Dipole-Bound Anions via Quantum Monte Carlo Methods." Journal of Chemical Physics Letters, vol. 21, 2018, pp. 6185. Full Text Rose, C., Reda, S., Rubenstein, B.M., and J. Rosenstein. "Computing with Chemicals: Perceptrons Using Small Molecules." 2018. Arcadia, C., Dombroski, A., Tann, H., Rosenstein, J., Kim, E., Rubenstein, B.M., and S. Reda. "Parallelized Linear Classification with Volumetric Chemical Perceptrons." 2018. Zhu H, Cai T, Que M, Song JP, Rubenstein BM, Wang Z, Chen O. "Pressure-Induced Phase Transformation and Band-Gap Engineering of Formamidinium Lead Iodide Perovskite Nanocrystals." The journal of physical chemistry letters, vol. 9, no. 15, 2018, pp. 4199-4205. Full Text PubMed Kim J, Baczewski AT, Beaudet TD, Benali A, Bennett MC, Berrill MA, Blunt NS, Borda EJL, Casula M, Ceperley DM, Chiesa S, Clark BK, Clay RC, Delaney KT, Dewing M, Esler KP, Hao H, Heinonen O, Kent PRC, Krogel JT, Kylänpää I, Li YW, Lopez MG, Luo Y, Malone FD, Martin RM, Mathuriya A, McMinis J, Melton CA, Mitas L, Morales MA, Neuscamman E, Parker WD, Pineda Flores SD, Romero NA, Rubenstein BM, Shea JAR, Shin H, Shulenburger L, Tillack AF, Townsend JP, Tubman NM, Van Der Goetz B, Vincent JE, Yang DC, Yang Y, Zhang S, Zhao L. "QMCPACK: an open source ab initio quantum Monte Carlo package for the electronic structure of atoms, molecules and solids." Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter, vol. 30, no. 19, 2018, pp. 195901. Full Text PubMed Cai T, Yang H, Hills-Kimball K, Song JP, Zhu H, Hofman E, Zheng W, Rubenstein BM, Chen O. "Synthesis of All-Inorganic Cd-Doped CsPbCl<sub>3</sub> Perovskite Nanocrystals with Dual-Wavelength Emission." The journal of physical chemistry letters, vol. 9, no. 24, 2018, pp. 7079-7084. Full Text PubMed Advances in the Computational Sciences: Symposium in Honor of Dr. Berni Alder's 90th Birthday. edited by Eric Schwegler, Brenda Rubenstein, and Stephen Libby, World Scientific, 2017. More Info Chang, C.-C., Rubenstein, B.M., and M.A. Morales-Silva. "Auxiliary-Field Based Trial Wave Functions in Quantum Monte Carlo Calculations." Physical Review B, vol. 94, 2016, pp. 235144. Full Text B.M. Rubenstein. "Introduction to the Variational Monte Carlo Method in Quantum Chemistry and Physics." Springer, vol. Variational Methods in Molecular Modeling, 2016, pp. 285-313. More Info Rubenstein, B.M., Zhang, S., and D.R. Reichman. "Auxiliary-Field Quantum Monte Carlo for Bose-Fermi Mixtures." Physical Review A, vol. 86, 2012, pp. 053606. Full Text Rubenstein, B.M., Coluzza, I., and M.A. Miller. "Controlling the Folding and Binding of Proteins Using Polymer Brushes." Physical Review Letters , vol. 108, 2012, pp. 208104. Full Text PubMed Rubenstein, B.M., Gubernatis, J.E., and J.D. Doll. "Comparative Monte Carlo Efficiency by Monte Carlo Analysis." Physical Review E, vol. 82, 2010, pp. 036701. Full Text PubMed Rubenstein, B.M. and L.J. Kaufman. "The Role of Extracellular Matrix in Glioma Invasion: A Cellular Potts Model Approach." Biophysical Journal, vol. 95, 2008, pp. 5661. Full Text PubMed Research Research Overview For decades, quantum chemists have been forced to make an oftentimes humbling choice in their day-to-day work: to use highly accurate, many-body methods that are too slow to apply to realistic quantum systems, or, to use faster one-body methods that are significantly less accurate. This fundamental compromise has glaringly limited the impact of quantum chemistry. Indeed, while most of modern experimental chemistry is focused upon synthesizing complex molecules and designing novel nano- and bulk materials, most modern quantum chemistry techniques are hard-pressed to even approach the scales necessary to answer many of the most pivotal experimental questions about these systems. The Rubenstein group is focused on developing electronic structure methods that are at once highly accurate and scale well with system size to help bridge this divide and enable theory-driven materials design. Other recurrent interests in the group revolve around molecular computing, quantum computing, computational biophysics, classical statistical mechanics, and computational linear algebra. Research Statement Of key interest to the group is the development and application of stochastic methods to meet the long-standing need for rigorous techniques capable of accessing experimentally relevant scales. Because they make careful use of random numbers, quantum Monte Carlo methods are not only highly accurate (they are the gold standard in much of condensed matter physics), but scale gracefully with system size. They can therefore address a wide variety of experimentally motivated questions inaccessible to equally accurate deterministic methods and be used to improve existing electronic structure methods including Density Functional Theory. Problems of primary interest to the group fall into three main categories: Modeling of bulk transition metal oxides, transition metal-based nanoclusters, and organometallic frameworks. Electrons in transition metals occupy highly degenerate, strongly-correlated d- and f- orbitals that are particularly difficult to model using one-body theories. The group’s recent advances developing stochastic techniques capable of modeling hundreds of electrons in hundreds of orbitals opens the door to simulating a variety of transition metal-based compounds and materials. Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of transition metal oxides will enable the high accuracy prediction of band gaps and high temperature, high pressure phase transitions, which will pave the way toward the development of more advanced photovoltaics as well as an improved understanding of the phase diagrams of complex solids. Development of new methods capable of capturing relativistic effects, including spin-orbit coupling, beyond the mean field level. Being able to properly model relativistic effects is critical to predicting the behavior of heavy elements including Se and Te, which comprise topological insulators and important semiconductors, and the lanthanides and actinides, which assume a pivotal role in the nuclear fuel cycle and exhibit intriguing volume collapse transitions in the bulk. Our group is currently exploiting quantum Monte Carlo’s unique ability to obtain the ground state wave functions of multi-component Hamiltonians to explore the full hierarchy of relativistic Hamiltonians and their accuracy in quantum chemical calculations. These efforts will inform current experimental efforts underway at Brown and elsewhere. Design and testing of finite temperature electronic approaches to model hot electrons and astrophysical conditions. Few electronic structure approaches are capable of modeling materials under conditions in which electrons are excited well above the ground state. This currently limits our understanding of photochemistry, plasma physics, and astrophysical processes such as star formation. Our group is developing density matrix-based methods that will enable the direct prediction of molecular behavior at high temperatures using both stochastic methods and more conventional finite temperature density functional theories. Advances made in these directions will establish the foundations necessary for rigorous simulations of a variety of materials currently outside the scope of modern-day exploration, dramatically expanding the predictive power of quantum chemical techniques. Students engaged in this work will develop a deep understanding of both quantum and statistical mechanics and will become familiar with modern high performance computing paradigms. The Rubenstein Group has also had a long-standing interest in biophysical modeling and alternative computing technologies, including quantum, molecular, and biological computation. Funded Research Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, "Quantum Chemistry That Scales," 2019-Present DOE Computational Chemical Science Research Center, "Bridging the Time Scale in Exascale Computing of Chemical Systems (Co-I w/ Andrew Peterson, Franklin Goldsmith, Zachary Ulissi, Andrew Medford, and Matthew Willard)," 2018-Present NSF DMR, "Beyond DFT: Accurate Simulations of Low Dimensional Materials for Energy and Device Applications (PI w/ Can Ataca)," 2018-Present DARPA Molecular Informatics Program, "Chemical CPUs: Chemical Computational Processing via Ugi Reactions (PI w/ Jacob Rosenstein, Chris Rose, Peter Weber, Sherief Reda, Eunsuk Kim, Joseph Geiser, and Jason Sello)," 2017-Present NSF EPSCoR Program, "Genotypes to Phenoytpes (w/ Marty Ytreberg, Daniel Weinreich, Holly Wichman, others)," 2017-2021 XSEDE Computing Allocation, "Quantum Monte Carlo for Lattice Models and Materials," 2017-Present LLNL Laboratory Directed Research and Development Grant-Exploratory Research,“Quantum Simulations for Uncertainty Quantification (w/ Miguel Morales-Silva),” 2014-Present 10th Annual LLNL Grand Challenge Tier 2 Computing Grant, “Transition Metals Done Right: An AFQMC Study of Transition Metal Oxide Phase Diagrams”, 2015-Present DOE BER Subsurface Biogeochemical Research Program, “Biogeochemical Processes at Femtomolar Concentrations and Nanometer Scales (w/ Annie Kersting, et al.),” 2015-Present Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2013 PhD Columbia University 2008 MPhil University of Cambridge 2007 ScB Brown University Honors and Awards Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award, 2021 Cottrell Teacher-Scholar Award, 2020 Brown University DIAP Faculty Award, 2019 Alfred P. Sloan Fellow, 2019 Dell-Intel Young Investigator Award in Quantum Chemistry, 2018 Lawrence Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2013-2016 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, 2008-2013 Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowship, 2008-2012 Winston Churchill Foundation of America Fellowship to Cambridge, 2007-2008 Paul Cross Prize for Best Senior in Physical Chemistry (Brown), 2007 Leallyn B. Clapp Thesis Prize for Best Thesis in Physical Chemistry (Brown), 2007 Rhodes Scholarship Finalist (NJ/MA Region), 2006 Barry Goldwater Scholarship (NJ Region), 2006-2007 Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Chen, Ou Assistant Professor of Chemistry Fawzi, Nicolas Associate Professor of Medical Science Goldsmith, Franklin Associate Professor of Engineering Kim, Eunsuk Associate Professor of Chemistry Marston, John Professor of Physics Mitrovic, Vesna Professor of Physics Ogbunu, C. Brandon Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Peterson, Andrew Associate Professor of Engineering Reda, Sherief Professor of Engineering, Professor of Computer Science Robinson, Jerome Assistant Professor of Chemistry Rose, Christopher Professor of Engineering, Associate Provost for STEM Initiatives Rosenstein, Jacob Associate Professor of Engineering Stratt, Richard Newport Rogers Professor of Chemistry, Professor of Physics Tang, Jay Professor of Physics, Professor of Engineering Wang, Lai-Sheng Jesse H. and Louisa D. Sharp Metcalf Professor of Chemistry, Chair of Chemistry Weber, Peter University Professor of Chemistry Weinreich, Daniel Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Biology Affiliations American Chemical Society American Physical Society Biophysical Society Materials Research Society Teaching Teaching Overview I am passionate about teaching introductory chemistry as well as a variety of undergraduate and graduate physical chemistry courses, including General Chemistry, Thermodynamics, Statistical Mechanics, Quantum Chemistry, and Computational Chemistry. I am even more passionate about level the educational playing field and increasing socioeconomic, racial, and gender diversity in STEM. Teaching CHEM 0330 - Equilibrium, Rate, and Structure CHEM 2010 - Advanced Thermodynamics CHEM 2780 - Quantum Mechanics About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO