Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Literary Arts http://brown.edu/academics/literary-arts/ For over 40 years, Literary Arts at Brown University has been a creative and intellectual center for the U.S. literary avant-garde. Along with a handful of other writing programs nationwide, Brown provides a home for innovative writers of fiction, poetry, electronic writing (hypertext) and mixed media. Established in the mid-1960s by poet, translator and critic Edwin Honig, Literary Arts at Brown continues its tradition of hiring and retaining a faculty comprised of nationally and internationally known authors. Each year, the program offers 60 – 70 classes, awards the M.F.A. degree to approximately 12 graduate student writers, and confers Honors on about 35 talented seniors who will have completed the undergraduate concentration in Literary Arts. The online MFA application deadline is 15 December. Applicants can expect admission decisions by 15 March. Friend us on Facebook to keep up-to-date on all that we do. Visualize it Affiliations Faculty Administrative Positions Cayley, John HChair of Literary Arts Faculty Positions Cayley, John HProfessor of Literary Arts Channer, Colin C DAssistant Professor of Literary Arts Colarusso, Andrew EOpus Foundation Assistant Professor of the Practice of Literary Arts Colella, Laura EAssistant Professor of the Practice of Literary Arts Coover, RobertT.B. Stowell University Professor Emeritus of Literary Arts Field, Thalia LAdele Kellenberg Seaver Professor of Creative Writing Gander, ForrestAdele Kellenberg Seaver '49 Professor Emeritus of Creative Writing, Professor Emeritus of Literary Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Comparitive Literature Hunt, EricaBonderman Assistant Professor of the Practice of Literary Arts Hunt, Laird BProfessor of Literary Arts Mahajan, KaranAssistant Professor of Literary Arts Maso, CaroleProfessor of Literary Arts Nakayasu, SawakoAssistant Professor of Literary Arts Nelson, Peter GaleSenior Lecturer in Literary Arts Sikelianos, Eleni AProfessor of Literary Arts Steinbach, MeredithProfessor Emerita of Literary Arts Swensen, ColeProfessor of Literary Arts Waldrop, Bernard KBrooke Russell Astor Emeritus Professor of the Humanities Wideman, John EdgarAsa Messer Professor Emeritus of Africana Studies and Literary Arts About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO