Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Peter Van Dommelen title="Email Peter_van_Dommelen@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Peter Van Dommelen Joukowsky Family Professor of Archaeology and Professor of Anthropology, Director of the Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World Overview Peter van Dommelen is a Mediterranean archaeologist, whose research and teaching revolve around the rural and indigenous Mediterranean past and present. The regional focus of his work lies in the western Mediterranean, where he carries out long-term fieldwork on the island of Sardinia. He concentrates on later Mediterranean prehistory and the indigenous and colonial worlds of the earlier part of Classical Antiquity - roughly the first millennium BCE - but comparative studies of ethnographic and recent historical contexts in the Mediterranean and elsewhere play a crucial role in his research and teaching. He studied Archaeology and Classics at the University of Leiden (the Netherlands), specializing in Theoretical and Classical Archaeology (MA, 1990; PhD, 1998); he also studied Anthropology and Material Culture at UCL (1990-91). He taught Mediterranean Archaeology at the University of Glasgow between 1997 and 2012, before coming to Brown University. He serves as director of the Joukowsky Institute since 2015. He has held visiting appointments at the Universities of Valencia (Spain, 2005-06), Cagliari (Sardinia, 2011) and the Balearics (Mallorca, 2012). Brown Affiliations Anthropology Archaeology and the Ancient World Research Areas classical antiquity | colonialism | connectivity | material culture | Mediterranean Archaeology | postcolonial theory On the Web Excavation at Nuraghe S'Urachi (Sardinia) Background: interview (IBES, 2016) Background: interview (Brown Daily Herald, 2015) Background: interview (Brown University, 2012) Publications Visualize it View All (11) Other (4) Book (2) Article (5) Ryan, Saskia E., Reynard, Linda M., Pompianu, Elisa, van Dommelen, Peter, Murgia, Clizia, Subirà, M. Eulàlia, Tuross, Noreen. "Growing up in Ancient Sardinia: Infant-toddler dietary changes revealed by the novel use of hydrogen isotopes (δ2H)." PLOS ONE, vol. 15, no. 7, 2020, pp. e0235080. Full Text PubMed Pérez-Jordà, Guillem, Hurley, Julia, Ramis, Damià, van Dommelen, Peter. "Iron Age botanical remains from nuraghe S'Urachi, Sardinia." Antiquity, vol. 94, no. 374, 2020. Full Text van Dommelen, Peter. "Rural works and days – a subaltern perspective." World Archaeology, vol. 51, no. 2, 2019, pp. 183-190. Full Text van Dommelen, Peter, Lash, Samantha, Naglak, Matthew, Nicosia, Cristiano, Pérez Jordà, Guillem, Ramis, Damià. "An agricultural field of Hellenistic date at Pauli Stincus, Terralba, Sardinia." Antiquity, vol. 92, no. 365, 2018. Full Text A.B. Knapp; P. van Dommelen. The Cambridge Prehistory of the Bronze and Iron Age Mediterranean. Cambridge University Press, 2015. More Info van Dommelen, Peter. "Moving On: Archaeological Perspectives on Mobility and Migration." World Archaeology, vol. 46, no. 4, 2014, pp. 477-483. Full Text Nicosia, Cristiano, Langohr, Roger, Carmona González, Pilar, Gómez Bellard, Carlos, Modrall, Emily B., Ruíz Pérez, José Miguel, van Dommelen, Peter. "Land Use History and Site Formation Processes at the Punic Site of Pauli Stincus in West Central Sardinia." Geoarchaeology, vol. 28, no. 4, 2013, pp. 373-393. Full Text van Dommelen, Peter. "Colonialism and Migration in the Ancient Mediterranean." Annu. Rev. Anthropol., vol. 41, no. 1, 2012, pp. 393-409. Full Text van Dommelen, Peter. "Postcolonial archaeologies between discourse and practice." World Archaeology, vol. 43, no. 1, 2011, pp. 1-6. Full Text P. van Dommelen; A.B. Knapp. Material Connections in the Ancient Mediterranean: Mobility, Materiality and Identity. Routledge, 2010. More Info Knapp, A. Bernard, van Dommelen, Peter. "Past Practices: Rethinking Individuals and Agents in Archaeology." Cambridge Archaeological Journal, vol. 18, no. 01, 2008. Full Text Research Research Overview Peter van Dommelen is a Mediterranean archaeologist working in the western Mediterranean, where he carries out long-term fieldwork on the island of Sardinia. He concentrates on later Mediterranean prehistory and Classical Antiquity throughout the first millennium BCE. Rural landscapes, indigeneity, colonialism and connectivity are key themes of his research. Research Statement The archaeology and anthropology of the rural Mediterranean and the Phoenician-Punic world of the western Mediterranean broadly define my research. My primary study areas and periods are the islands of Sardinia, Sicily and the Balearics and the Iberian east coast from the Late Bronze Age into the Roman Republican period- the first millennium BC writ large. Thematically, I am interested in theoretical and anthropological perspectives in archaeology that I draw on to study colonialism and connectivity, with particular reference to postcolonial theory and indigeneity as opposed to conventional notions like 'Hellenization' and 'Romanization'. A major research theme is constituted by the indigenous and rural societies in the Mediterranean past and present and their formation and articulation in the wider contexts of colonialism, state formation and globalization. In archaeological terms, my principal fields of experience are settlement and connectivity studies and ceramic analysis. Fieldwork A consistently central concern of my work is the combination of a theoretical orientation with practical fieldwork. The background and material to realize these ambitions have long been provided by fieldwork in west central Sardinia. I first co-directed the Riu Mannu Survey Project with M.Beatrice Annis and Pieter van de Velde of Leiden University (1992-1999) that resulted in a diachronic overview of rural settlement in this part of Sardinia. With the Terralba Rural Settlement Project I then zoomed in on colonial rural settlement in the southern reaches of west central Sardinia (2003-11). I co-directed this project in close collaboration with Carlos Gómez Bellard of the University of Valencia (Spain), using intensive site surveys, geophysical prospection and excavation of farm sites along with geomorphological and soil surveys. As part of the 'Tracing Networks' research program (2009-2014), I led the Colonial Traditions project with Andrea Roppa to investigate ceramic production in Iron Age west central Sardinia with the aim to explore interaction between the indigenous (Nuragic) inhabitants of Sardinia and Phoenician merchants and settlers between the 9th and 4th centuries BCE. In 2013, I started, with Alfonso Stiglitz, a new project to carry out extensive excavations around nuraghe S'Urachi (San Vero Milis) in western central Sardinia. This project is a joint undertaking of Brown's Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World and the Museo Civico of San Vero Milis. The overarching objective of the project is to trace the long-term history of the monumental nuraghe from prehistory into the Hellenistic period and to situate its local inhabitants in the the contexts of indigenous Sardinia and Phoenician colonialism - see blogs.brown.edu/surachi. Key publications I have long been involved in journal editing: at present, I serve, with John Cherry and Bernard Knapp (since 2006), as co-editor of the international peer-reviewed Journal of Mediterranean Archaeology, which offers a forum for archaeology and material culture studies from all periods and across all regions of the Mediterranean. I have been a member of the editorial board of World Archaeology between 2009 and 2017, and I am a former founding co-editor of Archaeological Dialogues (1994-2005). My books include the volume Rural Landscapes of the Punic World (2008, with Carlos Gómez Bellard) that offers an overview of rural settlement and agrarian organisation across the whole of the Punic world; this topic was explored on a global scale in Rural Archaeologies (2019, World Archaeology 51.2). The themes of culture contact and connectivity are explored in detail and in cross-cultural perspective in the edited volumes Articulating Local Identities (2007, with Nicola Terrenato), Material Connections in the Ancient Mediterranean (2010, with A. Bernard Knapp), Postcolonial Archaeologies (2011, World Archaeology 43.1), and Mobility & Migration (2014, World Archaeology 46.4). I have also co-edited Cambridge Prehistory of the Bronze and Iron Age Mediterranean (2014, CUP, with Bernard Knapp), while both Materiali e contesti nell’età del Ferro sarda (2014, Rivista di Studi Fenici 41, with Andrea Roppa), and Il Mediterraneo occidentale dalla fase fenicia all'egemonia cartaginese. Dinamiche insediative, forme rituali e cultura materiale nel V secolo a.C. (2021, Quasar, with A. Roppa and M. Botto) are edited volumes that focus on first millennium BC Sardinia. [more publications are listed in the short CV] Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1998 PhD University of Leiden 1990 MA University of Leiden Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Professor of Italian (by courtesy) Faculty Fellow of the Institute at Brown for the Environment and Society Teaching Teaching ANTH 1126 - Ethnographies of Heritage: Community and Landscape of the Mediterranean and Beyond ARCH 0230 - Myriad Mediterraneans: Archaeology, Representation and Decolonization ARCH 0415 - Of Chiefs, Princesses and Warriors: Exploring Different Iron Ages ARCH 0530 - Hannibal ad Portas! Fact and Fiction on Carthage and the Punic World ARCH 2102 - Postcolonial Matters: Material Culture between Colonialism and Globalization ARCH 2105 - Ceramic Analysis for Archaeology ARCH 2245 - Rural Landscapes and Peasant Communities in the Mediterranean ARCH 2630 - Global Romans and Indigenous Persistence ARCH 2852 - Skills Training in Material Culture Studies II About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO