Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Urban Studies http://www.brown.edu/academics/urban-studies/ The Urban Studies Program teaches students to analyze the city, urban life, and urbanization through a variety of disciplinary lenses. Students learn where cities come from, how they grow, thrive, and decline, how they are organized, and how to construct meaningful, inclusive, secure, and sustainable places. The curriculum examines how urban problems arise, how they have been previously addressed, and how to plan cities of the future. Concentrators enjoy the breadth of courses in American Studies, anthropology, economics, history, literature, history of art and architecture, political science, sociology, and planning as well as provide in-depth courses integrating those perspectives. We introduce the fundamentals of Urban Studies scholarship as well as intense examination of an urban problem in focused seminars. These advanced seminars offer opportunities to write extensive and synthetic interdisciplinary analyses that serve as capstones to the concentration. The program’s 10-course curriculum provides sufficient flexibility to allow students to pursue specific urban interests or to take courses in urban focus areas of Built Environment; Humanities; Social Sciences; and Sustainable Urbanism. The Program insures that students master at least one basic research methodology and perform research or fieldwork projects, which may result in an honors thesis. Fieldwork training includes working with local agencies and nonprofit organizations on practical urban problems. Capstone projects entail original research papers in Urban Studies seminars; academically supervised video, artistic, or community service projects; and Honors Theses for eligible concentrators. Student life is vibrant. About twenty socially diverse seniors a year graduate in Urban Studies. Concentrators have an active Departmental Undergraduate Group that organizes speakers, films, and conferences and edits a newsletter and Facebook page. Visualize it Affiliations Faculty Administrative Positions Wong, Kenneth KInterim Director of Urban Studies Zipp, SamuelDirector of the Urban Studies Program Faculty Positions Carter, Rebecca LouiseAssociate Professor of Anthropology and Urban Studies Meyer, David RProfessor Emeritus of Urban Studies Morone, James AProfessor of Political Science and Urban Studies Orr, Marion EProfessor of Political Science and Urban Studies Pacewicz, Jan MateuszAssociate Professor of Sociology and Urban Studies Silver, HilaryProfessor Emerita of Urban Studies Yapp, Lauren ELecturer in Urban Studies Zipp, SamuelProfessor of American Studies and Urban Studies About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO