Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Beshara B Doumani title="Email Beshara_Doumani@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Beshara B Doumani Mahmoud Darwish Professor of Palestinian Studies Overview Beshara Doumani is the inaugural Mahmoud Darwish Professor of Palestinian Studies, the first chair of its kind dedicated to this field of study. He is also the founding director (2012-2018) of Brown's Center for Middle East Studies (CMES), and founder of New Directions for Palestinian Studies, a CMES initiative since 2012. From 2012-2020 he was the Joukowsky Family Distinguished Professor of Modern Middle East History. Doumani's research focuses on groups, places, and time periods marginalized by mainstream scholarship on the early modern and modern Middle East, with a focus on the social, economic, and legal history of Eastern Mediterranean. He also writes on the topics of academic freedom, and the Palestinian condition. His books include Rediscovering Palestine: Merchants and Peasants in Jabal Nablus, 1700-1900, and Family Life in the Ottoman Mediterranean: A Social History. He is currently working on the modern history of the Palestinians through the social life of stone. Doumani is the editor of a book series on Palestinian Studies published by the University of California Press, co-editor of the Jerusalem Quarterly and editorial committee member of the Journal of Palestine Studies. From 2009-2011, Doumani led a team that produced a strategic plan for the establishment of the Palestinian Museum. In 2015, Doumani and received the Sawyer Seminar award from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for the proposal, Displacement and the Making of the Modern World: Histories, Ecologies, and Subjectivities. Doumani joined Brown in 2012 after fourteen years at the University of California, Berkeley, and was first tenured at the University of Pennsylvania. He was a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (1997-1998), the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (2001-2002), and the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University (2006-2007). He was also a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies, Princeton (2018-2019). Brown Affiliations History Research Areas family history | Middle East | Ottoman history | social history Publications Visualize it View All (7) Article (4) Book Section (3) "Archiving Palestine and the Palestinians: The Patrimony of Ihsan Nimr." Jerusalem Quarterly, vol. 36, 2009, pp. 4-12. More Info "A Passing Storm or a Structural Shift? Challenges to Academic Freedom in the United States after September 11." The Study of Religion and the Training of Muslim Clergy in Europe, edited by Willem B. Drees and Pieter Sjoerd van Koningsveld, Leiden, Leiden University Press, 2008, pp. 219-241. "Palestine Versus the Palestinians? The Iron Laws and Ironies of a People Denied." vol. 36, no. 4, 2007, pp. 1-16. Full Text "Rediscovering Ottoman Palestine: Writing Palestinians into History." The Israel/Palestine Question: Rewriting Histories, edited by Ilan Pappe, London, Routledge, 2007. Full Text "Le contrat salam et les relations ville-campagne dans la Palestine ottomane." Annales HSS, no. 4, 2006, pp. 901-924. Full Text "Adjudicating Family: The Islamic Court and Disputes Between Kin in Greater Syria, 1700-1860." Family History in the Middle East: Household, Property, and Gender, edited by Beshara Doumani, Albany, SUNY Press, 2003, pp. 173- 200. "Endowing Family: Waqf, Property Devolution and Gender in Greater Syria, 1800-1860." Comparative Studies in Society and History, vol. 40, no. 1, 1998, pp. 3-41. Full Text Research Research Overview Beshara Doumani's research focuses on the history of social groups, places, and time periods that have been silenced or erased by conventional scholarship on the early modern and modern Middle East. He contributes to the fields of social history, family history, and history of the Palestinians. Most of his writing is based on locally generated sources, especially registers of Ottoman shari`a (Islamic law) courts and family papers. In writings about Islam, women, and modernity in the Middle East, family and religion are frequently invoked but rarely historicized. In his most recent book, Family Life in the Ottoman Mediterranean: A Social History, which is based on a wide range of local sources, Doumani argues that there is no such thing as the Muslim or Arab family type that is so central to Orientalist, nationalist, and Islamist narratives. Rather, one finds dramatic regional differences, even within the same cultural zone, in the ways that family was understood, organized, and reproduced. In his comparative examination of the property devolution strategies and gender regimes in the context of local political economies, Doumani offers a groundbreaking examination of ordinary people and how they shaped the modern Middle East. Doumani's first book, Rediscovering Palestine: Merchants and Peasants in Jabal Nablus, 1700-1900, tells an intimate story about the transformation of Palestinian society during the Ottoman period. Doumani is also editor of Family History in the Middle East: Household, Property and Gender; and of Academic Freedom After September 11. Doumani also writes and teaches on displacement as a global and historically enduring phenomenon; as an ecological and technological phenomenon; and as a discursive field. Scholarly Work Family Life in the Ottoman Mediterranean: A Social History. Cambridge University Press: 2017. Academic Freedom After September 11 (editor). Zone Books: 2006. Family History in the Middle East: Household, Property and Gender. SUNY Press: 2003. Rediscovering Palestine: Merchants and Peasants in Jabal Nablus, 1700-1900. University of California Press: 1995. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1990 PhD Georgetown University 1980 MA Georgetown University 1977 BA Kenyon College Honors and Awards The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation has awarded $175,000 for a Sawyer seminar, “Displacement and the Making of the Modern World: Histories, Ecologies, and Subjectivities,” organized by Beshara Doumani. The award provides resources for post-graduate research fellowships, three workshops, and a seminar series. Through a yearlong series of workshops, seminars, courses, and cultural activities, “Displacement and the Making of the Modern World” will explore three broad themes that integrate disparate studies of displacement: as a global and historically enduring phenomenon; as an ecological and technological phenomenon; and as a discursive field. Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Department of History Middle East Studies Teaching Teaching HIST 0150I - The Making of the Modern World HIST 1457 - History of the Palestinians HIST 1968A - Approaches to the Middle East HIST 1969D - Palestine versus the Palestinians HIST 2971R - Approaches to Middle East History HIST 2971U - Population Displacements and the Making of the Modern World About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO