Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Michelle Rose Dawson title="Email michelle_dawson@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Michelle Rose Dawson Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Overview I am an Assistant Professor of Biomedical Sciences in the Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry at Brown University. I received my undergraduate degree in Biomedical Engineering from Louisiana Tech University, graduate degree in Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering from Johns Hopkins University, and postdoctoral training in Tumor Biology from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School where I trained in Rakesh Jain's lab. I have established a research lab focused on using quantitative cell biophysical analysis to understand cancer biology. My research provides detailed biophysical insight on cancer cell signaling pathways, tumor cell heterogeneity, cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions in the tumor, and mechanisms contributing to therapy resistance. My long-term goal is to develop a leading research program for studying the physical factors that contribute to invasion and metastasis of breast and gynecological malignancies. My research team is multidisciplinary at the interface between cell biology, bioengineering, and medicine. Trainees learn to combine single cell biophysical analysis with molecular analysis of cell signaling pathways important in cancer. I hope this biophysical approach will guide in the development of new strategies for treating deadly tumors. Brown Affiliations Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Research Areas actin | Aging | biomechanics | Biophysics | breast cancer | cancer | Cancer--Chemotherapy | cell adhesion | cell mechanics | cell migration | Cystic fibrosis | Cytoskeleton | drug delivery | extracellular matrix | Georgia--Atlanta | Louisiana | Maryland--Baltimore | Massachusetts--Boston | microscopy | Mucus | nuclear mechanics | ovarian cancer | Paclitaxel | particle transport | Polyploidy | single cell | stem cells On the Web Dawson Lab Google Scholar Account @CellBiophysics @DawsonStemCell Publications Visualize it View All (33) Article (31) Book Section (2) Xuan B, Ghosh D, Cheney EM, Clifton EM, Dawson MR. "Dysregulation in Actin Cytoskeletal Organization Drives Increased Stiffness and Migratory Persistence in Polyploidal Giant Cancer Cells." Scientific reports, vol. 8, no. 1, 2018, pp. 11935. Full Text PubMed Ghosh D, Dawson MR. "Microenvironment Influences Cancer Cell Mechanics from Tumor Growth to Metastasis." Systems Biology of RNA Binding Proteins, vol. 1092, 2018, pp. 69-90. Full Text PubMed Ali MRK, Wu Y, Ghosh D, Do BH, Chen K, Dawson MR, Fang N, Sulchek TA, El-Sayed MA. "Nuclear Membrane-Targeted Gold Nanoparticles Inhibit Cancer Cell Migration and Invasion." ACS Nano, vol. 11, no. 4, 2017, pp. 3716-3726. Full Text PubMed Ghosh D, McGrail DJ, Dawson MR. "TGF-β1 Pretreatment Improves the Function of Mesenchymal Stem Cells in the Wound Bed." Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology, vol. 5, 2017, pp. 28. Full Text PubMed McGrail D, Kieu Q, Iandoli J, Dawson M. "Actomyosin Tension as a Determinant of Metastatic Cancer Mechanical Tropism." Physical Biology, vol. 12, no. 2, 2015, pp. 026001. Full Text PubMed McGrail D, Qi M, Khambhati N, Patel, K, Dawson M. "Alterations in Ovarian Cancer Cell Adhesion Drive Taxol Resistance by Increasing Microtubule Dynamics in a FAK-dependent Manner." Scientific Reports, vol. 5, 2015, pp. 9529. Full Text PubMed McAndrews K, Yi J, McGrail D, Dawson M. "Enhanced Adhesion of Stromal Cells to Invasive Cancer Cells Regulated by Cadherin 11." ACS Chemical Biology, vol. 10, no. 8, 2015, pp. 1932-38. Full Text PubMed McAndrews K, Yi J, McGrail D, Ravikumar N, Dawson M. "Mesenchymal Stem Cells Induce Directional Migration of Invasive Breast Cancer Cells through TGF-β." Scientific Reports, vol. 5, 2015, pp. 16941. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Ghosh, D. "Mucosal Barriers." Drug Delivery Across Physiological Barriers, edited by Silvia Muro, Massachusetts, Pan Stanford Publishing, 2015, pp. 155-173. McGrail D, McAndrews K, Brandenburg C, Ravikumar N, Kieu Q, Dawson M. "Osmotic regulation is required for cancer cell survival under solid stress." Biophysical Journal, vol. 109, no. 7, 2015, pp. 1334-37. Full Text PubMed McGrail D, Kieu M, Mezencev R, McDonald J, Dawson M. "SNAIL-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition produces concerted biophysical changes from altered cytoskeletal gene expression." FASEB J, vol. 29, no. 4, 2015, pp. 1280-89. Full Text PubMed McAndrews K, Kim F, Lam T, McGrail D, Dawson M. "Architectural and Mechanical Cues Direct Mesenchymal Stem Cell Interactions with Cross-Linked Gelatin Scaffolds." Tissue engineering. Part A, vol. 20, no. 23-24, 2014, pp. 3252-60. Full Text PubMed Ghosh D, Lili L, McGrail DJ, Matyunina LV, McDonald JF, Dawson MR. "Integral role of platelet-derived growth factor in mediating transforming growth factor-β1-dependent mesenchymal stem cell stiffening." Stem Cells and Development, vol. 23, no. 3, 2014, pp. 245-61. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Tseng Y, Lee J, McAndrews K. "Intracellular Particle Tracking Rheology." Handbook on Imaging in Biological Mechanics, edited by Corey Neu, Guy Genin, Florida, CRC Press, 2014, pp. 381-387. Datla S, McGrail D, Lyle A, Pounkova L, Hilenski1 L, Dawson M, Lassègue B, and Griendling K. "Poldip2 Controls Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Migration by Regulating Focal Adhesion Turnover and Polarization." Applied Journal of Physiology, vol. 307, no. 7, 2014, pp. H945-57. Full Text PubMed McAndrews K, McGrail D, Quach N, Dawson M. "Spatially coordinated changes in intracellular rheology and extracellular force exertion during mesenchymal stem cell differentiation." Physical Biology, vol. 11, 2014, pp. 056004. Full Text PubMed Ghosh D, Lilli L, McGrail D, Matyunina L, McDonald J, Dawson M. "TGFb1 Induced Stiffening of Mesenchymal Stem Cells Depends on PDGF-BB Signaling." Stem Cells and Development, vol. 23, no. 3, 2014, pp. 245-61. McGrail D, Kieu Q, Dawson M. "The Malignancy of Metastatic Ovarian Cancer Cells is Increased on Soft Matrices Through a Mechanosensitive Rho-ROCK Pathway." Journal of cell science, vol. 127, 2014, pp. 2621-2626. Full Text PubMed McGrail D, McAndrews K, Dawson M. "Biomechanical Analysis Predicts Decreased Human Mesenchymal Stem Cell Function before Molecular Differences." Experimental Cell Research, vol. 319, 2013, pp. 684-696. Full Text PubMed Don-Salu-Hewage AS, Chan SY, McAndrews KM, Chetram MA, Dawson MR, Bethea DA, Hinton CV. "Cysteine (C)-x-C receptor 4 undergoes transportin 1-dependent nuclear localization and remains functional at the nucleus of metastatic prostate cancer cells." PLoS ONE, vol. 8, no. 2, 2013, pp. e57194. Full Text PubMed McGrail DJ, Ghosh D, Quach ND, Dawson MR. "Differential mechanical response of mesenchymal stem cells and fibroblasts to tumor-secreted soluble factors." PLoS ONE, vol. 7, no. 3, 2012, pp. e33248. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Chae S, Jain RK, Duda D. "Direct evidence for lineage-dependent effects of bone marrow stromal cells on tumor progression." American journal of cancer research, vol. 1, no. 2, 2011, pp. 144-154. PubMed Suk JS, Lai SK, Boylan NJ, Dawson MR, Boyle MP, Hanes J. "Rapid transport of muco-inert nanoparticles in cystic fibrosis sputum treated with N-acetyl cysteine." Nanomedicine (London, England), vol. 6, no. 2, 2011, pp. 365-75. Full Text PubMed Kozin, SV, Kamoun, WS, Huang, Y, Dawson, M, Jain, RK, Duda, DG. "Rapid macrophage infiltration after local irradiation facilitates tumor re-growth whereas TEMs and not EPCs recruitment facilitates relapse of irradiated tumors." Cancer Research, vol. 70, no. 14, 2010, pp. 5679-85. Kozin SV, Kamoun WS, Huang Y, Dawson MR, Jain RK, Duda DG. "Recruitment of myeloid but not endothelial precursor cells facilitates tumor regrowth after local irradiation." Cancer Research, vol. 70, no. 14, 2010, pp. 5679-85. Full Text PubMed Tang B, Dawson M, Lai S, Wang YY, Suk, JS, Yang M, Zeitlin P, Boyle M, Fu J, Hanes J. "Biodegradable polymer nanoparticles that rapidly penetrate the human mucus barrier." PNAS, vol. 106, no. 46, 2009, pp. 19268-73. Full Text Tang BC, Dawson M, Lai SK, Wang YY, Suk JS, Yang M, Zeitlin P, Boyle MP, Fu J, Hanes J. "Biodegradable polymer nanoparticles that rapidly penetrate the human mucus barrier." Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 106, no. 46, 2009, pp. 19268-73. Full Text PubMed Perentes JY, McKee TD, Ley CD, Mathiew H, Dawson M, Padera TP, Munn LL, Jain RK, Boucher Y. "In vivo imaging of extracellular matrix remodeling by tumor-associated fibroblasts." Nature methods, vol. 6, no. 2, 2009, pp. 143-45. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Duda D, Chae S, Fukumura D, Jain RK. "VEGFR1 activity modulates myeloid cell infiltration in growing lung metastases but is not required for spontaneous metastasis formation." PLoS ONE, vol. 4, no. 9, 2009, pp. e6525. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Duda D, Fukumura D, Jain RK. "VEGFR1-activity independent metastasis formation." Nature, vol. 461, 2009, pp. E4. Full Text PubMed Suh J, Dawson M, Hanes J. "Real-time particle tracking: Applications to drug and gene delivery." Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, vol. 57, 2005, pp. 63-78. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Krauland E, Wirtz D, Hanes J. "Transport of polymeric nanoparticle gene carriers in gastric mucus." Biotechnology progress, vol. 20, no. 3, 2004, pp. 851-857. Full Text PubMed Dawson M, Wirtz D, and Hanes J. "Enhanced viscoelasticity of human cystic fibrotic sputum correlates with increasing microheterogeneity in particle transport." Journal of Biological Chemistry, vol. 278, 2003, pp. 50393-50401. Full Text PubMed Research Research Overview Dr. Dawson's research is focused on manipulating cell mechanics to control cell function. Quantitative microscopy techniques based on transport phenomena are used to characterize the mechanomic signatures of cells, which are important for cell migration, differentiation, and development in normal tissues and tumors. Genomic analysis and small molecule screening are then used to elucidate the molecular pathways controlling these mechanical profiles and to identify tissue biomarkers and targets for therapeutic development. Information gained through these fundamental studies can be used to: (1) improve the homing of stem cells to tissues, (2) classify cells based on their mechanical properties, (3) increase our understanding of force-dependent cancer progression, and (4) optimize the physical properties of engineered tissues. Research Statement The Dawson Cell Biophysics Lab uses a single cell biophysical approach to study tumor microenvironment interactions; research is focused on breast and ovarian cancer, which are both leading causes of cancer-related mortality in women. The microenvironment in a solid tumor includes a multitude of cell types, matrix proteins, and growth factors that profoundly influence cancer cell behavior by providing both physical and chemical stimulation. This tumor microenvironment, which is both dynamic and heterogeneous in nature, plays a critical role in cancer progression from the growth of the primary tumor to the development of metastatic and drug-resistant tumors. Our biophysical approach, can be used to systematically investigate the parameters in the tumor that control cancer cell interactions with the stroma and to identify specific conditions that induce tumor-promoting behavior, along with strategies for inhibiting these conditions to treat cancer. Many of the hallmarks associated with cancer, including unlimited replicative potential, apoptotic evasion, and tissue invasion and metastasis, can be linked to abnormal cytoskeletal or matrix mechanics – important biophysical parameters. Several innovative approaches are applied in this research; this includes high-content single cell biophysical analysis to measure cell and nuclear stiffness, cell and nuclear shape/deformability, cell motility, adhesion, and traction stress. Using multiple particle tracking analysis, we can simultaneously probe cell and nuclear stiffness in hundreds of individual cells; at the same time, we track cell location over time to determine motility parameters, including cell velocity and persistence. These data are combined with morphological analysis of cell and nuclear shape, along with how these parameters change over time. This will elucidate key biophysical differences in cancer and stromal cells, to drive the development of more effective treatment strategies. In addition, my lab has developed novel organoid models to study biophysical interactions between cancer cells and the stroma in a spatially and temporally controlled manner to determine how individual cancer cells interact with and affect their surrounding environment. These quantitative biophysical studies will pave the way for our future work focused on tracking single cells in animals and clinical samples. Funded Research Project Title: Research Supplement - Investigating the Biophysics of Giant Polyploidal Cancer Cells in an Aging Tumor Stroma (2133460). Funding Source: National Science Foundation, Role: PI Project Title: REU Supplement - Investigating the Biophysics of Giant Polyploidal Cancer Cells in an Aging Tumor Stroma (006188). Funding Source: National Science Foundation, Role: PI Project Title: Collaborative Research: A Digital Manufacturing Platform to Democratize Biological Tissue Access Using Smart Two-Photon Polymerization (2043243). Funding Source: National Science Foundation, Role: Co-PI Project Title: Role of Senescence Associated Extracellular Vesicles in Radiation-Induced Pulmonary Fibrosis. Funding Source: Research Seed Funds, Office of Vice President for Research, Brown University, Role: PI Project Title: Clinical Relevance of Polyploidal Giant Cancer Cells and Biomarker Identification. Funding Source: Cancer Center at Brown University Pilot Project Award, Role: PI Project Title: Standard Award: Investigating the Biophysics of Giant Polyploidal Cancer Cells in an Aging Tumor Stroma (1825174). Funding Source: National Science Foundation, Role: PI Project Title: Development of a 3D Organoid Culture Model to Identify Drivers of Cancer Progression. Funding Source: OVPR Grant Resubmission Funds, Role: PI Project Title: Molecular and Mechanical Regulators of the Metastatic Niche and Ovarian Cancer Metastasis (005756). Funding Source: COBRE, Lifespan Center for Cancer Research Development, Role: PI Project Title: Using Single Cell Biophysics and Shear Wave Ultrasound Elastography to Measure Cancer Mechanics Across Multiple Length Scales. Funding Source: Research Seed Funds, Office of Vice President for Research, Brown University, Role: Co-PI Scholarly Work Hanes J, Dawson M, Wirtz D, Fu J, Krauland E, Drugs and gene carrier particles that rapidly move through mucus barriers. Patent Numbers 15,988,615; 14,620,333, 8,957,034. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2005 PhD The Johns Hopkins University 1999 BS Louisiana Tech University Postdoctoral/Other Training Postdoctoral Research Fellow Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital 2005-2008 Boston, MA, United States Honors and Awards American Association for Cancer Research Minority and Minority Serving Institution Faculty Scholar in Cancer Research Award (2018) Georgia Tech Women in Engineering (WIE) Teaching Excellence Award (2013) Georgia Tech Junior Faculty Outstanding Undergraduate Research Mentor Award (2013) Georgia Cancer Coalition Breast Cancer Research Award (2009) Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Minority Fellowship (2006) CRS-Capsugel/Pfizer Innovative Aspects of Oral Drug Delivery Award (2004) International Society for Aerosol Medicine Student Research Award (2003) Biophysical Society FASEB MARC Travel Award (2003) NSF Graduate Research Fellowship (2001) Ford Foundation Predoctoral Minority Fellowship (2001) Achievement Rewards for College Students Fellowship (2000) Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Beland, Michael Professor of Diagnostic Imaging Brodsky, Alexander Assistant Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (Research) Dizon, Don Professor of Medicine El-Deiry, Wafik Mencoff Family University Professor of Medical Science, Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Freiman, Richard Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Oancea, Elena Professor of Medical Science Sedivy, John Hermon C. Bumpus Professor of Biology, Associate Dean and Director, Center for the Biology of Aging Affiliations Therapeutics Pathobiology Center for Biomedical Engineering Legorreta Cancer Center Joint Program in Cancer Biology Appointments Assistant Professor. School of Engineering, - Teaching Teaching Overview I teach BIOL1810 21st Century Applications in Molecular Cell Biology. BIOL1810 focuses on the structure and function of macromolecules and cells and how they are altered in disease and therapy. This course also explores physical principles underlying cell function, along with biophysical approaches for solving problems of cell and molecular biology of both a basic and applied nature. Cutting-edge molecular and cellular-based therapeutics will be discussed throughout this course; this includes viral gene delivery constructs, novel platforms for tissue engineering, CRISPR genome editing, and immune checkpoint therapy. This course is particularly suitable for Biology and Biomedical Engineering undergraduate and graduate students interested in cancer biology and oncology research, graduate or medical school, and research-based careers. Teaching BIOL 0810 - Applied Cell and Molecular Biology BIOL 1810 - 21st Century Applications in Cell and Molecular Biology About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO