Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Indira Gil title="Email indira_gil@brown.edu Overview Publications Background Affiliations Teaching View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Indira Gil Lecturer in Education Overview Indira Gil holds a Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction in Mathematics from Florida International University. Dr. Gil has extensive experience teaching mathematics at the middle school, high school, and college level. Her research interests include making mathematics accessible to all students, aiding students in developing their math identities, culturally responsive teaching, supporting teacher agency and advocating for educators. Brown Affiliations Education Publications Visualize it Article (2) Barbara King, Jennifer Bartman, Indira Gil. "The Problem-Based Threshold: Shifting Pre-Service Teachers’ Thinking About Mathematics Instruction." The Teacher Educator, vol. 55, no. 1, 2020, pp. 88-106. Full Text Indira Gil, Laura Zamudio-Orozco, Barbara King. "After Presenting Multiple Solution Strategies, What’s Next? Examining the Mathematical Connections Made by Pre-service Teachers." Journal of Mathematics Education at Teachers's College, vol. 10, no. 2, 2019, pp. 9-20. Full Text Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2020 PhD Florida International University 2007 MA CUNY City College 2005 BA Smith College Honors and Awards College of Arts, Science, and Education Outstanding Dissertation Award Nominee Recipient of the Florida International University Dissertation Year Fellowship Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM) Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators (AMTE) Teaching Teaching EDUC 0815 - The Craft of Teaching EDUC 1010 - The Craft of Teaching EDUC 2510D - Educational Theory and Practice in Teaching Mathematics 1 EDUC 2520D - Educational Theory and Practice in Teaching Mathematics II EDUC 2530D - Educational Theory and Practice in Teaching Mathematics III EDUC 2555 - Assessment and Using Data to Support Student Learning EDUC 2565 - Practicum and Seminar I EDUC 2575 - Student Teaching and Seminar About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO