Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Johanna M Hanink title="Email Johanna_Hanink@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Johanna M Hanink Professor of Classics Overview Johanna Hanink took her PhD in Classics from the University of Cambridge (Queens' College). Her work in Classics focuses on classical Athens, particularly on the cultural life of the city's fourth century BCE. She is especially interested in the construction and reception (in both antiquity and more modern times) of the idea of the ancient 'Greek miracle'. Some of her work touches on the points of contact between modern politics and ideas about ancient Greece, and antiquity more generally. She is the author of: The Classical Debt: Greek Antiquity in an Era of Austerity (Harvard 2017); Lycurgan Athens and the Making of Classical Tragedy (Cambridge 2014). She is a translator of Modern as well as Ancient Greek. Some of her shorter published literary translations are collected here. Her book-length translations are: The Archeologist and Selected Sea Stories (Penguin 2021; a volume of works by Andreas Karkavitsas, translated from the [Modern] Greek); How to Think about War: An Ancient Guide to Foreign Policy (Princeton 2019; a short volume of speeches from Thucydides, with introductions and notes). She is co-editor of the volumes: (with Demetra Kasimis) In Terms of Athens: New Encounters between Classics and Political Theory (special volume of Ramus; 2021); (with Richard Fletcher) Creative Lives in Classical Antiquity: Poets, Artists, and Biography (Cambridge 2016). She is active in Brown's Program in Modern Greek Studies and is Arts & Humanities editor of the Journal of Modern Greek Studies. She is a member of the editorial board of the Bryn Mawr Classical Review and a regular collaborator with Greece's ThePressProject. She has written several public-facing essays and reviews: these are collected here, on her personal website. Johanna is particularly interested in working with graduate students on topics in Athenian literary and cultural history, as well as on 'reception' projects oriented around Classics, geopolitics, and Greco-Roman antiquity as an imperial idiom. Brown Affiliations Classics Research Areas Athens | drama | Greece | Greece--Athens | literary biography | performance | theater | tragedy On the Web Personal website Johanna on Twitter Research Scholarly Work Major publications Andreas Karkavitsas: The Archeologist and Selected Sea Stories. Penguin (Penguin Classics) 2021. How to Think about War: An Ancient Guide to Foreign Policy. Princeton University Press 2019. The Classical Debt: Greek Antiquity in an Era of Austerity. Harvard University Press/Belknap Press 2017. Creative Lives in Classical Antiquity: Poets, Artists and Biography. Co-edited with Richard Fletcher. Cambridge University Press 2016. Lycurgan Athens and the Making of Classical Tragedy. Cambridge University Press 2014. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2010 PhD University of Cambridge 2005 MA University of California, Berkeley 2003 BA University of Michigan Honors and Awards Cogut Institute for Humanities, Brown University, Faculty Fellowship (spring 2017) Onassis Fellowship for Foreigners (February-July 2014, affiliation with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki) "Distinguished Academic Visitor," Queens' College, Cambridge (fall 2013) Tytus Fellowship for residence at the University of Cincinnati (summer 2011) Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Graduate field faculty, Department of Theater and Performance Studies Committee member, Program in Modern Greek Studies Teaching Teaching Overview Advanced language courses (Greek and Latin); introductions to Greek thought & civilization (e.g. 'The Greeks'; 'Greek Mythology'); courses on Greek drama and performance. Teaching CLAS 0210R - Revolutionary Classics (or, the classical origins of your Brown education) CLAS 0210T - Travelers in Greece: from Pausanias to Shirley Valentine CLAS 0620 - Greek Tragedy CLAS 0900 - Greek Mythology GREK 0100 - Essentials of the Greek Language GREK 1110F - Poetry of Gods and Heroes GREK 1810 - Greek Literature Survey to 450 BCE GREK 2020D - Thucydides GREK 2100F - The Twilight of Classical Athens HMAN 1972H - Old News: Antiquity and Current Events About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO