Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Eric T Nathan title="Email eric_nathan@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Eric T Nathan Associate Professor of Music Overview Eric Nathan’s (b. 1983, New York, NY) music has been called “as diverse as it is arresting” with a “constant vein of ingenuity and expressive depth” (San Francisco Chronicle), “thoughtful and inventive” (The New Yorker), and as “a marvel of musical logic” (Boston Classical Review). A 2013 Rome Prize Fellow and 2014 Guggenheim Fellow, Nathan has been commissioned by leading ensembles and institutions including the New York Philharmonic, Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, Tanglewood Music Center, Aspen Music Festival, Boston Musica Viva, Collage New Music, The New York Virtuoso Singers, Fromm Music Foundation, Barlow Endowment and University of Chicago’s Grossman Ensemble. The Boston Symphony Orchestra has commissioned three works, including a chamber work, “Why Old Places Matter” (2014) for the Boston Symphony Chamber Players, and two orchestral works, “the space of a door” (2016), that Andris Nelsons and the BSO premiered in November 2016 and commercially released on the Naxos label in 2019, and “Concerto for Orchestra” which Nelsons premiered on the 2019-20 season-opening concerts, and was scheduled to repeat at Tanglewood in summer 2020. Nathan’s works have also been presented nationally and internationally at the New York Philharmonic’s 2014 and 2016 Biennials, Louvre Museum, Library of Congress, the 2012 and 2013 World Music Days, Emily Dickinson Museum, Nasher Sculpture Center and at the festivals of Aldeburgh, Aspen, Cabrillo, Domaine Forget, MATA, Ravinia Steans Institute, and Tanglewood. In 2019, Yellow Barn featured Nathan’s 50-minute dramatic song cycle, “Some Favored Nook,” created in collaboration with librettist Mark Campbell, on opening night of its 50th anniversary season. Composer portrait concerts of Nathan’s music have been presented by the Berlin Philharmonic’s Scharoun Ensemble Berlin at the American Academy in Rome, by the Hudson Valley Music Club, and at the Tenri Cultural Institute (New York). In April 2020, the Longy School of Music was scheduled to present a portrait concert featuring the premiere of Nathan’s evening-length work, “Missing Words” (postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic). Nathan’s orchestral music has additionally been performed by the National Symphony Orchestra, Boston Modern Orchestra Project (BMOP) and orchestras of Charleston, Charlotte, Daejeon, Louisville, Milwaukee, Omaha, Portland as well as A Far Cry, Aspen Music Festival and New York Classical Players. Chamber ensembles have performed Nathan’s work, such as International Contemporary Ensemble, Nouvel Ensemble Moderne, Ensemble Dal Niente, JACK Quartet, and American Brass Quintet. In addition, Nathan’s music has been performed by sopranos Tony Arnold, Jessica Rivera, Lucy Shelton and Dawn Upshaw; violinists Jennifer Koh and Stefan Jackiw; baritone William Sharp; and pianists Gloria Cheng, Gilbert Kalish and Molly Morkoski. Nathan began a four-year appointment as Composer-in-Residence with the New England Philharmonic in the 2019-20 season. He has previously served as Composer-in-Residence at the Chelsea Music Festival (New York) and Chamber Music Campania (Italy). Nathan has completed an artist residencies at Yellow Barn, Copland House and the American Academy in Rome, and will be a fellow at Civitella Ranieri Foundation in 2022. Nathan has been honored with awards including ASCAP’s Rudolf Nissim Prize, four ASCAP Morton Gould Awards, BMI’s William Schuman Prize, Aspen Music Festival’s Jacob Druckman Prize, a Charles Ives Scholarship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and Leonard Bernstein Fellowship from the Tanglewood Music Center. In 2015, Albany Records released a debut album of Nathan’s solo and chamber music, “Multitude, Solitude: Eric Nathan,” produced by Grammy-winning producer Judith Sherman, featuring the Momenta Quartet, trombonist Joseph Alessi, violist Samuel Rhodes, oboist Peggy Pearson, pianist Mei Rui, and trumpeter Hugo Moreno. (Le) Poisson Rouge presented a CD release concert of Nathan's music in October 2015. In 2019, Chelsea Music Festival Records released “Eric Nathan: Dancing with J.S. Bach,” featuring conductor Ken-David Masur in Nathan’s two suites of orchestrations of Bach keyboard works. In May 2020, Gil Rose and the Boston Modern Orchestra Project released a portrait album of Nathan’s orchestral and large ensemble music on the BMOP Sound label. Nathan’s music has additionally been released on Bridge Records. Nathan is also a passionate educator and advocate for contemporary composers. He serves as Associate Professor of Music in composition and theory at Brown University's Department of Music. At Brown, he teaches a variety of subjects from composition to popular music history that engage students with and without backgrounds in music. In 2018, he was awarded Brown University's most prestigious award for junior faculty, the Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship, that recognizes excellence in teaching. He has additionally served as David S. Josephson Assistant Professor at Brown, Visiting Assistant Professor at Williams College and has taught composition at the New York Philharmonic’s Composer’s Bridge program and at Yellow Barn’s Young Artists Program. Nathan completed his doctorate studying at Cornell with Steven Stucky, Roberto Sierra and Kevin Ernste, his masters from Indiana University studying with Claude Baker and Sven-David Sandström, his B.A. from Yale College where he studied with Kathryn Alexander, John Halle, Matthew Suttor and trumpeter Allan Dean, and a diploma from the Pre-College Division of The Juilliard School where he studied composition with Ira Taxin. Nathan additionally was a composition fellow at Tanglewood, Aspen, Aldeburgh and the Composers Conference. Brown Affiliations Music Research Areas chamber music | Electronic music | György Kurtág | Music Composition | music theory | Orchestral Music | Orchestration On the Web Professional Website Research Research Overview My major research focus is in music composition, both acoustic and electroacoustic, as well as in music theory and history, with a focus on homage in twentieth-century music as well as the music of Hungarian composer György Kurtág. My dissertation, “Homage in the Music of György Kurtág,” analyzes this important Hungarian composer’s music in historical context. In addition, I am a conductor, trumpeter and pianist and perform in classical, jazz and other popular music contexts. Funded Research Richard B. Salomon Faculty Research Award, The Office of the Vice President for Research, Brown University, 2018 Brown Arts Initiative Research and Development Grant, 2017, 2018 Humanities Research Funds award, The Office of the Vice President for Research, Brown University, 2016-2018 John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship, 2014 Rome Prize, American Academy in Rome, 2013 Scholarly Work Performances of my music have been presented by: Music festivals and concert series: Aldeburgh Music Festival (2011, 2012), Aspen Music Festival and School (2005, 2009, 2010, 2016, 2018), Cabrillo Festival of Contemporary Music, Cathédrale Notre Dame (Paris), Chamber Music America, Chelsea Music Festival, Composers Now Festival, Library of Congress, Louvre Museum, MATA Festival, National Gallery of Art (D.C.), National Sawdust, New York Philharmonic Biennial (2014, 2016), Nuova Consonanza, Piano Spheres, Ravinia Festival Steans Institute, Shanghai Conservatory New Music Week, Spark Festival, Tanglewood Festival of Contemporary Music (2014), Tanglewood Music Center (2010, 2011), Tanglewood Music Festival (2015), Yellow Barn (2015, 2017), World Music Days (2012, 2013). Orchestras: A Far Cry, American Composers Orchestra, Aspen Concert Orchestra, Aspen Conducting Academy Orchestra, Boston Symphony Orchestra, Boston Modern Orchestra Project (BMOP), Cabrillo Festival Orchestra, Charleston Symphony, Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, Daejeon Philharmonic Orchestra, National Symphony Orchestra, National Youth String Orchestra (UK), New England Philharmonic, Omaha Symphony Chamber Orchestra; student orchestras of Yale, Brown, Connecticut College, Cornell, Juilliard Pre-College, University of Maryland. Chamber and new music ensembles: American Brass Quintet, American Modern Ensemble, Aspen Contemporary Ensemble, Berlin Philharmonic Scharoun Ensemble, Boston Musica Viva, Boston Symphony Orchestra Chamber Players, Britten-Pears Ensemble, Collage New Music, Ensemble Dal Niente, International Contemporary Ensemble (ICE), JACK Quartet, Melos Ethos Ensemble, Momenta Quartet, Mirari Brass Quintet, New York Classical Players, New York Virtuoso Singers, New York Youth Symphony Chamber Music Program, Nouvel Ensemble Moderne, Spectra Ensemble, Syracuse Society for New Music. Performers: Conductors: Andris Nelsons, Jane Glover, Ken-David Masur, José Serebrier, Robert Trevino, Shinik Hahm, Toshiyuki Shimada. Vocalists: Dawn Upshaw, Jessica Rivera, Lucy Shelton, Tony Arnold. Instrumentalists: Allan Dean (trumpet), Gloria Cheng (piano), Joseph Alessi (trombone), Samuel Rhodes (viola), Scott Hartman (trombone), Roger Tapping (viola). Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2012 DMA Cornell University 2008 MM Indiana University 2006 BA Yale University Postdoctoral/Other Training Diploma The Juilliard School Pre-College Division, Trumpet Performance, Music Composition 2000-2002 Honors and Awards 2022 Goddard Lieberson Fellowship, American Academy of Arts and Letters Early Career Research Achievement Award, Brown University 2021 Serge Koussevitzky Music Foundation at the Library of Congress, commission 2019: Civitella Ranieri Music Center Fellowship (for 2021 residency in Umbria, Italy) Composer-in-Residence, New England Philharmonic (for 2019-2022) Alice M. Ditson Fund, Columbia University, Recording Program Award: awarded to Boston Modern Orchestra Project for the recording project “Eric Nathan: The Space of a Door” 2018 Fromm Music Foundation at Harvard University, Commission (Juried commission award) 2017 Yellow Barn Festival, Artist Residency American Academy in Rome, Visiting Artist Residency 2016 Copland House Residency Award 2015 New Music USA Project Grant 2014 John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship in Music Composition Camargo Foundation Fellowship (Cassis, France), declined Cabrillo Festival of Contemporary Music, “Composers Project” Fellowship 2013 Frederic A. Juilliard/Walter Damrosch Rome Prize, American Academy in Rome Composer-in-Residence, Chelsea Music Festival Composer-in-Residence, Chamber Music Campania (Italy) 2012-2013 Composer-in-Residence, The Dalton School Orchestra 2010-2012 ASCAP Foundation Morton Gould Young Composer Award (3) 2012 ISCM-IAMIC Young Composer Award (first American to be awarded) Jerome Foundation Fund for New Music, American Composers Forum 2011 ASCAP Foundation Rudolf Nissim Prize Selection for 2012 ISCM World Music Days League of Composers/ISCM Competition American Modern Ensemble Composers Competition Shanghai Conservatory of Music New Music Week Call for Scores 2010 Charles Ives Scholarship, American Academy of Arts and Letters Jacob Druckman Prize for Orchestral Composition, Aspen Music Festival and School Tanglewood Music Center Leonard Bernstein Fellowship 2009 Aspen Music Festival and School Susan and Ford Schumann Fellowship 2008 William Schuman Prize, BMI (Broadcast Music Inc.) Student Composer Awards: “awarded to the score judged ‘most outstanding’ in the competition” ASCAP Foundation Morton Gould Young Composer Award ASCAP/Society of Composers, Inc. National Student Commission Competition: First Prize 2007 New York Federation of Music Club’s Brian M. Israel Prize Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations American Society of Composers, Authors and Publisher (ASCAP) American Academy in Rome, Society of Fellows Appointments Associate Professor. Brown University , 2021- David S. Josephson Assistant Professor. Brown University, 2018-2021 Assistant Professor. Brown University, 2015-2018 Visiting Assistant Professor of Music. Williams College, 2014-2015 Teaching Teaching MUSC 0033 - From the Blues to Beyoncé: Popular Music in America MUSC 0033 - From the Blues to Beyoncé: Rock, A Portrait of America MUSC 0550 - Theory of Tonal Music MUSC 0550 - Theory of Tonal Music I MUSC 1050 - Advanced Music Theory II MUSC 1100 - Introduction to Composition MUSC 1110 - Seminar in Composition MUSC 2200 - Composition Seminar MUSC 2235 - Timbre in Electroacoustic Music About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO