Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Felipe I Martinez-Pinzon title="Email felipe_martinez-pinzon@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Felipe I Martinez-Pinzon Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies Overview Felipe Martínez-Pinzón earned his BA in Literature and JD from Universidad de los Andes (Bogotá, Colombia). He received his Ph.D in Spanish and Portuguese from New York University. Before coming to Brown, he was an Assistant Professor of Spanish at the College of Staten Island (CUNY). He works on 19th and early 20th century Latin American literature and culture, with an emphasis on Colombia. Brown Affiliations Hispanic Studies Research Areas 19th century literature | Amazon | Colombia | Costumbrismo | Ecuador | Romanticism | Travelogues (Travelers' writings) | Tropical jungles | Venezuela | war On the Web Academia.edu Publications Visualize it Book (6) Patricios en contienda: cuadros de costumbres, reformas liberales y representación del pueblo en Hispanoamérica (1830-1880). University of North Carolina Press, 2021. More Info Museo de cuadros de costumbres y variedades (1866) (Annotated reedition and introductory study). Universidad de los Andes, 2020. More Info Intimate Frontiers: A Literary Geography of the Amazon. edited by with Javier Uriarte, Liverpool, 2019. Entre el humo y la niebla: Guerra y cultura en América Latina. Edited volume (with Javier Uriarte). Pittsburgh: IILI. . Pittsburgh, 2016. Revisitar el costumbrismo: Cosmopolitismo, pedagogías y modernización en Iberoamérica. Edited volume (with Kari Soriano Salkjelsvik). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.. 2016. More Info Una cultura de invernadero: trópico y civilización en Colombia (1808-1928). Iberoamericana Vervuert, 2016. Research Research Overview Felipe Martínez-Pinzón's research works on the junctions between nation, cosmopolitanism and the tropics in 19th century and 20th century Latin America. His research interests include the histories and representations of tropical nature and the literary and material cultures of Romanticism in Spanish America. He is currently working on two projects. One on the question of origins in post-Independence Latin American Romantic literature (ethnic origin as legitimacy; originality as copy, genius and pose; myths of origin in the historical novel, silenced origins in gothic literature; the origins of national literatures). The other, a cultural history of the Musa Paradisiaca (both the banana and the plantain) in Tropical America from Independence to the Present. He has published a monograph on elite representations of warm climate in 19th century Colombia (Una cultura de invernadero). He has co-edited three volumes, one on the foundational relations between war, literature and geography in Latin America (with Javier Uriarte, Entre el humo y la niebla); a second one on the connections between sketches of manners and cosmopolitan imaginations in Iberian America (With Kari Soriano Salkjelsvik, Revisitar el costumbrismo); and a third one about literary and cultural representations of 20th century Amazonia (with Javier Uriarte, Intimate Frontiers). In 2020, with Universidad de los Andes and Universidad del Rosario (Colombia), he published a reedition of José María Vergara y Vergara's panoramic collection of skteches of types and manners Museo de cuadros de costumbres y variedades (1866). In 2021 the University of North Carolina Press published his second monograph Patricios en contienda: cuadros de costumbres, reformas liberales y representación del pueblo en Hispanoamérica (1830-1880). Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2012 PhD New York University 2004 BA University of Los Andes Honors and Awards Venezuelan Studies Section (LASA). Honorable Mention. Best academic article on Venezuela, 2021. Henry Merritt Wriston Fellowship. Brown University, 2018-2019. Richard B. Salomon Research Award. Brown University, 2018-2019. Beca Instituto Caro y Cuervo de Investigación en revisión editorial y crítica de textos breves del siglo XIX en Colombia, 2014-2015. CUNY Professional Staff Congress Research Grant, 2012-2013. Andrew Mellon Dissertation Completion Fellowship, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, New York University, 2011-2012. Program for Cultural Cooperation Between Spain’s Ministry of Culture and United States Universities Grant, 2007. Commendable Undergraduate Thesis, Department of Humanities and Literature, Faculty of Arts and Humanities, Universidad de los Andes. 2005. Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Modern Language Association. Latin American Studies Association (LASA Colombia and 19th-century advisory boards). American Comparative Literature Association. Asociación de Colombianistas. Teaching Teaching Overview HISP 0730. Early and Contemporary Spanish American Writers HISP 2350T S01: Mediations: Nation, Territory and Civilization in 19th Century Latin America Teaching HISP 0650 - Advanced Spanish Through Literature & Film HISP 0730 - Encounters: Latin America in Its Literature and Culture HISP 0750B - The Latin American Diaspora in the US HISP 1330U - Hauntings: Gothic Fictions, Banditry and the Supernatural in Latin America HISP 1330W - War, Revolution and the Cult of the Hero in Latin American Culture HISP 1330Z - Tropical Fictions: Geography and Literature in Latin American Culture HISP 1371L - Take My Breath Away: A Cultural History of Air in Modern Latin America's Imagination and Literature HISP 2350V - The Politics of Romanticism in Spanish American Literature HISP 2350X - Literatures of Work and the Work of Literature in Latin America LACA 1371L - Take My Breath Away: A Cultural History of Air in Modern Latin America's Imagination and Literature About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO