Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Christopher Rose title="Email Christopher_Rose@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Christopher Rose Professor of Engineering, Associate Provost for STEM Initiatives Overview Please see http://brown.edu/worldofbits Here is a formal (pure academic puffery) Curriculum Vitae in PDF format and Chris' Wikipedia page (15 seconds of fame puffery). Here are links to short bios (formal and fun). Dr. Christopher Rose received the S.B. (1979), S.M. (1981) and Ph.D. (1985) degrees all from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Following graduate school, he joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J. as a member of the Network Systems Research Department where he regaled his peers with levitated center conductor Hi-Tc superconducting cables, annoyed them by showing random lightwave network architectures performed as well as carefully sculpted ones, and puzzled them with odd applications of cellular automata. In 1990 when Arno (Penzias) told everyone in "Area 11" to go to academe if they were not keenly interested in the corporate bottom line (including his Nobel partner Bob [Wilson]), Chris was congratulated on his timing as he joined the E&CE at Rutgers University the very next week. He is currently a Professor of Engineering at Brown and a Fellow of the IEEE, cited "for contributions to wireless communication systems theory," and the recipient of the 2022 IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award. He has also served as a full member of the Army Science Board (2013--2014). His research interests have included novel mobile communications networks, applications of genetic algorithms to control problems in communications networks and interference avoidance methods using universal radios to foster peaceful coexistence in what will be the wireless ecology of the 5GHz U-NII bands. This work, co-authored with Sennur Ulukus and Roy Yates, received the 2003 IEEE Marconi Prize Paper Award in Wireless Communications. Here's a picture of the ecstatic authors at the Globecom 2004 awards ceremony (picture credit: Aylin Yener). For fun, as an outgrowth of research on opportunistic communications, he also considered the details of a problem everyone has wondered about at one time or another: how will our first extraterrestrial civilization contact occur? The interesting twist is that it can be FAR more efficient for distant "little green people" to send information-bearing physical artifacts than electromagnetic signals -- seemingly at odds with current SETI wisdom. This work was featured on the cover of the September 2, 2004 issue of Nature and can be found (along with an astounding amount of press coverage, including a NY Times Editorial!!!) under the tongue-in-cheek rubric cosmic communications. Here's an associated cartoon competition! He is currently interested in any and everything to which information/communication theory can be applied. Molecular communication and computing are currently funded topics. Chris can be reached at Christopher_Rose AT Brown DOT edu Brown Affiliations Engineering Research Areas Communication Theory | Information Theory | Inscribed Matter Communication | Molecular Communication | Physics and Communication/Information Theory | Wireless information networks | Wireless telecommunication systems On the Web Chris Rose Publications Visualize it View All (24) Article (15) Other (6) Conference Paper (2) Book (1) Arcadia, Christopher E., Kennedy, Eamonn, Geiser, Joseph, Dombroski, Amanda, Oakley, Kady, Chen, Shui-Ling, Sprague, Leonard, Ozmen, Mustafa, Sello, Jason, Weber, Peter M., Reda, Sherief, Rose, Christopher, Kim, Eunsuk, Rubenstein, Brenda M., Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Multicomponent molecular memory." Nature Communications, vol. 11, no. 1, 2020, pp. 691. Full Text PubMed Rose, Christopher, Mian, I. S., Ozmen, Mustafa. "Capacity Bounds on Point-to-Point Communication Using Molecules." Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 107, no. 7, 2019, pp. 1342-1355. Full Text Kennedy E, Arcadia CE, Geiser J, Weber PM, Rose C, Rubenstein BM, Rosenstein JK. "Encoding Information in Synthetic Metabolomes." PLoS ONE, vol. 14, no. 7, 2019, pp. e0217364. Full Text PubMed Rose, Christopher, Reda, Sherief, Rubenstein, Brenda, Rosenstein, Jacob. "Computing with Chemicals: Perceptrons Using Mixtures of Small Molecules." 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), 2018. Full Text Shakya, Pratistha, Kennedy, Eamonn, Rose, Christopher, Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Correlated Transmission and Detection of Concentration-Modulated Chemical Vapor Plumes." IEEE Sensors Journal, vol. 18, no. 16, 2018, pp. 6504-6509. Full Text Ozmen, Mustafa, Kennedy, Eamonn, Rose, Jacob, Shakya, Pratistha, Rosenstein, Jacob K., Rose, Christopher. "High Speed Chemical Vapor Communication Using Photoionization Detectors in Turbulent Flow." IEEE Transactions on Molecular, Biological and Multi-Scale Communications, vol. 4, no. 3, 2018, pp. 160-170. Full Text Kennedy, Eamonn, Shakya, Pratistha, Ozmen, Mustafa, Rose, Christopher, Rosenstein, Jacob K. "Spatiotemporal information preservation in turbulent vapor plumes." Applied Physics Letters, vol. 112, no. 26, 2018, pp. 264103. Full Text Farsad, Nariman, Rose, Christopher, Medard, Muriel, Goldsmith, Andrea. "Capacity of molecular channels with imperfect particle-intensity modulation and detection." 2017 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), 2017. Full Text Rose, Christopher, Mian, I. S. "Inscribed Matter Communication: Part I." IEEE Transactions on Molecular, Biological and Multi-Scale Communications, vol. 2, no. 2, 2016, pp. 209-227. Full Text Rose, Christopher, Mian, I. S. "Inscribed Matter Communication: Part II." IEEE Transactions on Molecular, Biological and Multi-Scale Communications, vol. 2, no. 2, 2016, pp. 228-239. Full Text C. Rose. "State Estimation, Wireless Tropes, Demons and Uncertainty,." IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, 2016. C. Rose I.S. Mian. "A Fundamental Framework for Molecular Communication Channels: timing & payload,." IEEE International Conference on Communication, 2015. Eckford, A.W. Krishnaswamy, D. Paluh, J.L. Rose, C. "Guest Editorial Series on Molecular, Biological, and Multiscale Communication." IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communication, vol. 32, no. 12, 2014, pp. 2313-2314. Full Text Christopher Rose Ismat Saira Mian. "Signaling with Identical Tokens: upper bounds with energy constraints." IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, 2014, pp. 1817-1821. Full Text Christopher Rose Ismat Saira Mian. "Signaling with identical Tokens: lower bounds with energy constraints." IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, 2013, pp. 1839-1843. Full Text Ruochen Song Christopher Rose YiLin Tsai Ismat Saira Mian. "Wireless Signaling with Identical Quanta." IEEE WIreless Communication and Networking Conference'12, 2012, pp. 699-703. Full Text Ismat Saira Mian Christopher Rose. "Communication theory and multicellular biology." Integrative Biology, vol. 3, no. 4, 2011, pp. 350-367. Full Text PubMed Christopher Rose Gregory Wright. "Inscribed Matter As An Energy-Efficient Means of Communication with An Extraterrestrial Civilization." Nature, vol. 431, 2004, pp. 47-49. Full Text PubMed Dimitrie Popescu Christopher Rose. Interference Avoidance Methods for Wireless Systems. Kluwer, 2004. Christopher Rose Sennur Ulukus Roy Yates. "Wireless Systems and Interference Avoidance." IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communication, vol. 1, no. 3, 2002, pp. 415-428. Full Text Christopher Rose Roy Yates. "Minimizing the Average Cost of Paging Under Delay Constraints." ACM WIreless Networks, vol. 1, no. 2, 1995, pp. 211-219. Full Text Christopher Rose Michael Gans. "A Dielectric-Free Superconducting Coaxial Cable." IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, vol. 38, no. 2, 1990, pp. 166-177. Full Text Christopher Rose. "Rapid Optimal Scheduling for Time-Multiplex Switches Using a Cellular Automaton." IEEE Transactions on Communication, vol. 37, no. 5, 1989, pp. 500-509. Full Text Christopher Rose Thomas F. Weiss. "Frequency Dependence of Synchronization of Cochlear Nerve Fibers in the Alligator Lizard: evidence for a cochlear origin of timing and non-timing neural pathways." Hearing research, vol. 33, 1988, pp. 151-166. Full Text Research Research Overview Communication Theory As An Organizing Principle for EVERYTHING: Interaction is often defined in terms of empirical observation about outcomes and relationships -- reactants move toward some equilibrium, momentum and energy are conserved, elements of an organism ``signal'' each other chemically, mechanically and electrically. These observations are mathematically framed and the resulting equations often have great predictive power -- which is the whole point of science. However, any interaction is a communication and communication implies some sort of information exchange, in essence a quantification or even digitization of what is knowable about systems and their elements. So, to any communication theorist trained in the physical sciences, a basic question comes immediately to mind -- what are all these interacting elements saying to one another, how are they saying it and can I listen in and join the conversation? Please see http://brown.edu/worldofbits Research Statement Examples: How will our first extraterrestrial intelligence contact occur? Molecular informatics: memory and computation Epidemic dynamics dynamics (not a typo :) ) Information, evolution and fitness landscape exploration What do the proton and electron talk about? Can information/communication fix policing, policy, politics? Adversarial information games Racism as an evolving self-preserving system We write too much and we read too much!!! The academic ladder is papered with papers which serve as a proxy for influence (and thus promotion). It sometimes seems that within hours of an area's inception, the literature becomes too voluminous to follow. There may be some utility to going back to careful rumination and teaching and only publishing work of special significance as intellectual organizing principles. Alternatively, we need to figure out ways to insert reliably vetted work into the scientific edifice with minimal human oversight such that knowledge can later be easily found, properly attributed and then effectively utilized by the most important part of the enterprise -- humans with human creativity. Scholarly Work Please see either http://brown.edu/Departments/Engineering/Labs/Rose/ or http://brown.edu/Departments/Engineering/Labs/Rose/vitarose.pdf for more information. Proudest Research Moment: Cosmic Communications :) Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1985 PhD Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1981 SM Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1979 BS Massachusetts Institute of Technology Honors and Awards 2022 IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award 2015-2016 Brown ONYX Society Award for Service/Dedication to Black Students MLK, Jr. VIsiting Professor of EECS, MIT 2013-2014 Army Science Board Member (2013-2014) Teaching Excellence Award, Rutgers Engineering Governing Council (2006, 2009, 2010, 2013) Best Teacher in Engineering, Rutgers Engineering Governing Council (2011) 2007 IEEE Fellow cited for "Contributions to wireless communication system theory." 2003 Marconi Prize Paper Award in Wireless Communications Outstanding Service as General Chair, ACM SIGMOBILE MobiCom 2001 Outstanding Service as Executive Committee Member, 1997-2001, ACM SIGMOBILE Henry Rutgers Research Fellow, 1990 Bell Laboratories Cooperative Research Fellowship, 1979–1985 NSF Fellowship, Awarded 1979 (declined) GEM Fellowship, Awarded 1979 (declined) Affiliations Visualize it Collaborators Name Title Geiser, Joseph Senior Research Associate in Chemistry Kim, Eunsuk Associate Professor of Chemistry Larson, Lawrence Sorensen Family Dean of Engineering, Professor of Engineering Mittleman, Daniel Professor of Engineering Reda, Sherief Professor of Engineering, Professor of Computer Science Rosenstein, Jacob Associate Professor of Engineering Rubenstein, Brenda Associate Professor of Chemistry Sello, Jason Adjunct Professor of Chemistry Weber, Peter University Professor of Chemistry Affiliations Professor of Engineering, Associate Provost for STEM Initiatives Senior Associate Editor, IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Communication Board Member, The Steve Fund Teaching Teaching Overview Spring 2016-22: ENGN 1580 Communication Systems Teaching ENGN 1580 - Communication Systems About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO