Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Vladimir Golstein title="Email Vladimir_Golstein@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Vladimir Golstein Associate Professor of Slavic Studies, Chair of Slavic Studies Overview Vladimir Golstein holds his M.S. in Computers from Moscow Institute of Management, his B.A. in Philosophy from Columbia University, and his Ph.D. in Slavic Languages and Literatures from Yale University. Prior to coming to Brown he taught at Oberlin College (1990-93) and Yale University (1993-2003), where he has taught a wide range of graduate and undergraduate courses that explore Western and Russian literary traditions. His scholarly interests embrace Russian culture, religion, philosophy, and poetry, of the past two centuries. He is the author of Lermontov's Narratives of Heroism (Northwestern University Press, 1998) and numerous articles on nineteenth-and twentieth century Russian authors, including Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Chekhov, Tsvetaeva, and Bulgakov. He is currently completing a monograph on the conflict of generations in Russia. Brown Affiliations Slavic Studies Publications Visualize it View All (4) Article (3) Book (1) Golstein, Vladimir. "Calvin Schrag and the Russians." Russian Journal of Communication, vol. 7, no. 1, 2015, pp. 80-86. Full Text Svetlana Aleksijevitj--Sovjetintelligentians Rost (The Voice of Soviet Intelligentsia). Karneval Forlag, 2015. Golstein, Vlaqimir. "The Conflict of Generations Through the Prism of Itinerants (Peredvizhniki) Art." The Soviet and Post-Soviet Review, vol. 32, no. 1, 2005, pp. 233-254. Full Text GOLSTEIN, VLADIMIR. "What Does a Saint Do amidst MASSOLIT Revelers? Mikhail Bulgakov, Father John of Kronstadt, and Julien Benda's La trahison des clercs." Russian Review, vol. 63, no. 4, 2004, pp. 673-687. Full Text Research Research Overview Professor Golstein's scholarly interests embrace Russian culture, religion, philosophy, and poetry, of the past two centuries. He is the author of Lermontov's Narratives of Heroism (Northwestern University Press, 1998) and numerous articles on nineteenth-and twentieth century Russian authors, including Pushkin, Gogol, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Chekhov, Tsvetaeva, and Bulgakov. He is currently completing a monograph on the conflict of generations in Russia. Research Statement Russian Culture, History and Literature Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1992 PhD Yale University 1982 BA Columbia University Affiliations Visualize it Teaching Teaching RUSS 0320E - Crime and Punishment through Literature RUSS 1250 - Russian Cinema RUSS 1300 - Russian Literature in Translation II: Tolstoy to Solzhenitsyn RUSS 1820 - Dostoevsky RUSS 2017 - Roaring Twenties: Literature, Arts, and Politics in Post-Revolutionary Russia. RUSS 2810 - Russian Poetry: Silver Age About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO