Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Donald R Murphy title="Email Donald_Murphy_Dc@brown.edu Overview Publications Background Affiliations View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Donald R Murphy Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine Overview Brown Affiliations Family Medicine On the Web University of Pittsburgh Primary Spine Practitioner Course CRISP Education and Research Spine Care Partners Primary Spine Practitioner Network Publications Visualize it View All (3) Book (2) Article (1) Clinical Reasoning in Spine Pain Vol II: Primary Management of Cervical Disorders Using the CRISP Protocols. . CRISP Education and Research, 2016. More Info Schneider, Michael J, Terhorst, Lauren, Murphy, Donald, Stevans, Joel M., Hoffman, Rachel, Cambron, Jerrilyn A. "Exploratory Analysis of Clinical Predictors of Outcomes of Nonsurgical Treatment in Patients With Lumbar Spinal Stenosis." Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics, vol. 39, no. 2, 2016, pp. 88-94. Full Text PubMed Clinical Reasoning in Spine Pain Volume I: Primary Management of Low Back Disorders Using the CRISP Protocols. CRISP Education and Research, 2013. More Info Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1988 DC New York Chiropractic College Honors and Awards 2016-present Fellow, Royal College of Chiropractors 2012 Presidential Service Citation, New York Chiropractic College. “In recognition and appreciation of your outstanding contributions to advance excellence in chiropractic education and research”. 2012 Researcher of the Year. American Chiropractic Association 2011 Best Scientific Paper, Research Agenda Conference, Las Vegas, NV. March 15 2008-2014 Recognition, National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) Back Pain Recognition Program. This program was set up to “recognize physicians and chiropractors who deliver superior care to millions of Americans who suffer from low back pain”. The NCQA retired this program in 2012 and extended recognition to 2014 2008 Second Prize, Best Scientific Paper Competition. Research Agenda Conference, Washington, DC. March 14, 2008 2007 Second Prize, Best Scientific Paper Competition. Research Agenda Conference, Phoenix, AZ. March 17, 2007 Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations University of Pittsburgh Pirmary Spine Practitioner Course CRISP Education and Research, LLC Primary Spine Practitioner Network Spine Care Partners Teaching About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO