Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Patrick J McHugh title="Email Patrick_Joseph_McHugh@brown.edu Overview Publications Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Patrick J McHugh Professor of the Practice of Engineering Overview Dr. Patrick McHugh is a Professor of the Practice in the School of Engineering at Brown University where he teaches courses in entrepreneurship, finance and strategy at the undergraduate, graduate and executive levels. His research interests focus on legitimacy and network theory in the context of social media and decision making. His work has been published in the Journal of General Management, Journal of Management and Organizations, Journal of Prediction Markets, and MIS Quarterly Executive. He has over 25 years of industry experience with technology companies, including executive roles at three venture-backed data security firms. Earlier initiatives include building a call center automation services practice for GTE leveraging artificial intelligence and speech recognition (winner of the GTE Chairman’s Leadership Award) and an online financial services offering leveraging social media while at IBM Credit Corp (growing assets under management to more than $400 million within 12 months of launch). He is the recipient of two patents in the area of call center automation and holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in engineering from Columbia University, an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, and a Ph.D. in management from Bentley University. Dr. McHugh is Director of the Brown University School of Engineering Masters program in Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship (PRIME), former Director of the IE Brown Executive MBA program, fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, board member of Fractal Antenna Systems, and a member of the Cherrystone Angel Group, with current investments in Nodar and Laurent Pharmaceuticals. Brown Affiliations Engineering Research Areas Corporate governance | decision making | entrepreneurship | innovation | Networking | social media | Strategy On the Web Linkedin Publications Visualize it Article (4) Elise Perrault. "Accelerating time: The effects of social pressures and regulation on board gender diversity post-IPO." Journal of General Management, 2018. Full Text Perrault, Elise, McHugh, Patrick. "Toward a life cycle theory of board evolution: Considering firm legitimacy." Journal of Management & Organization, 2015, pp. 1-23. Full Text Aaron Jackson. "Prediction market accuracy: The impact of size, incentives, context and interpretation." Journal of Prediction Markets, 2012. Culnan, M Zubillaga, J. "How large U.S. companies can use Twitter and other social media to gain business value." MIS Quarterly Executive, 2010. Research Research Overview Patrick's research interests focus on legitimacy, network theory and decision making in innovative, global, online, educational and governance contexts. Research Statement Scholarly Work McHugh, P.; Perrault, E. “Accelerating time: The effects of social pressures and regulation on board gender diversity post-IPO” Journal of General Management. Spring 2018. Perrault, E.; McHugh, P. “Toward a life cycle theory of board evolution: considering firm legitimacy” Journal of Management and Organizations. 21:15:627-649. September 2015. McHugh, P; Jackson, A. “Prediction Market Accuracy: The Impact of Size, Incentives, Context and Interpretation.” Journal of Prediction Markets. 6:2:22-46. September 2012. Culnan, M; McHugh, P; and Zubillaga, J. “How Large U.S. Companies Can Use Twitter and Other Social Media to Gain Business Value.” MIS Quarterly Executive. 9:4: 243-259. December 2010. Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2013 PhD Bentley University 1987 MBA Harvard University 1982 MS Columbia University 1981 BS Columbia University Honors and Awards 2016 Elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts 2013 Outstanding Reviewer Award from the Organizational Behavior Division of the Academy of Management 2012 Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM) Graduate Student Literature Review Prize scholarship winner GTE Internetworking Chairmans Leadership Award Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations Academy of Management (AoM) Eastern Academy of Management (EAM) The Case Association Royal Society of Arts Appointments Director, Program in Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship (PRIME). PRIME, 2019- Teaching Teaching Overview Patrick teaches courses in entrepreneurship, finance, innovation management and strategy. Teaching EMBA 2000 - Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Developing Regions EMBA 2020 - Corporate Innovation Process EMBA 2530 - Key Reflection Project EMBA 2540 - Global Trends Seminar Series EMSL 2210 - Finance and Business Strategy ENGN 2110 - Business Engineering Fundamentals I ENGN 2160 - Technology Entrepreneurship and Commercialization II ENGN 2180 - Globalization Immersion Experience and Entrepreneurship Laboratory About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO