Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Joseph Michael Pucci title="Email Joseph_Pucci@brown.edu Overview Research Background Affiliations Teaching View All Curriculum Vitae [PDF] × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Joseph Michael Pucci Professor of Classics Overview Joseph Pucci is Professor of Classics and in the Program in Medieval Studies at Brown, where he teaches courses on classical, later and medieval Latin language and literature, literary selfhood in late antique and medieval literature, the western tradition, and reception studies. He has published over 70 articles, book chapters, and book reviews on Latin literary culture, and is the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of seven books: Prudentius: Peristephanon, trans. Len Krisak, with Introduction and Notes by Joseph Pucci (Routledge, 2019); Ausonius: The Moselle, the Epigrams and Other Poems, trans. Deborah Warren, with Introduction and Notes by Joseph Pucci (Routledge, 2017); The Classics Renewed: Reception and Innovation in the Latin Poetry of Late Antiquity, co-edited with Scott McGill (Universitätsverlag Winter, 2016); Augustine's Virgilian Retreat: Reading the Auctores at Cassiciacum (Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 2014); Venantius Fortunatus: Poems To Friends, A Translation with Introduction and Commentary (Hackett, 2010); The Full-Knowing Reader: Allusion and the Power of the Reader in the Western Literary Tradition (Yale, 1998; paperback version, 2012); and the second edition of K. P. Harrington, Medieval Latin (Chicago, 1997). An eighth book, The Poetry of Alcuin of York, is forthcoming; a ninth book, Recuperating Virgil: Reading the Auctores in Augustine's Confessions, is being revised. Interests: Late Antiquity; Late Latin; Medieval Latin; Comparative Literary History; Biography; Literature and the American Presidency; the western tradition. Books: Medieval Latin, Second Edition (Chicago, 1997); The Full-Knowing Reader: Allusion and the Power of the Reader in the Western Literary Tradition (1998; paperback, 2012); Venantius Fortunatus: Poems To Friends, A Translation with Introduction and Commentary (Hackett, 2010); Augustine's Virgilian Retreat: Reading the Auctores at Cassiciacum (Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, 2014); The Classics Renewed: Reception and Innovation in the Latin Poetry of Late Antiquity, co-edited with Scott McGill (Universitätsverlag Winter, 2016); Ausonius: The Moselle, the Epigrams and Other Poems, trans. Deborah Warren with Introduction and Notes by Joseph Pucci (Routledge, 2017); Prudentius: Peristephanon, trans. Len Krisak, with Introduction and Notes by Joseph Pucci (Routledge, 2019); Alcuin: The Poems (forthcoming). In Progress: Recuperating Virgil: Reading the Auctores in Augustine's Confessions (drafted); a study of Lincoln's use of scripture (partially drafted). Contributor (many articles and book reviews): Arethusa, Classica et Medievalia, Classical Bulletin, Classical Outlook, Classical Philology, Classical Review, Classical World, Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Journal of Medieval Latin, Latomus, New England Classical Journal, Oxford Dictionary of the Middle Ages, Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics, Ramus, Speculum, Virgil Encylcopedia, Blackwell Companion to Late Antique Litertature. Awards: Comfort and Urry Award for Advising, Mentoring, and Motivation (2015); Princeton Review: One of the Top 300 Professors in the U.S., 2012; Karen T. Romer Award for Undergraduate Advising and Mentoring, 2004; John Rowe Workman Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities, 1996; Award for Outstanding Academic Advising, Undergraduate Council of Students (1998, 1999, 2001; 2013). Brown Affiliations Classics Research Research Overview Joseph Pucci has research interests in late antiquity, late Latin, medieval Latin, and comparative literary history with a focus on literary allusion and poetic genres. He also has interests in biography as a literary form (and as practitioner), in literature and the American presidency, reception studies, and the western tradition. Research Statement He is a comparative literary historian with interests in later and medieval Latin poetry, though he also works in prose (Augustine, Alcuin, Anselm, Abelard). He has investigated the phenomenon of allusion in Western tradition and recently published a book, Augustine's Virgilian Retreat: Reading the Auctores at Cassiciacum (PIMS, 2014), that studies Augustine's dialogues as statement on the ways to read pagan literature. A compansion volume, now complete, is entitled Recuperating Virgil: Reading the Auctores in Augustine's Confessions. A translation of the personal poetry of Venantius Fortunatus was published in 2010 as Venantius Fortunatus: Poems to Friends, A Translation with Introduction and Commentary. A co-edited volume, The Classics Renewed: Reception and Innovation in the Latin Poetry of Late Antiquity, was published in June, 2016 by Winter Verlag. Translations, by Deborah Warren and Len Krisak, for which he wrote the Introduction, notes, and other supporting materials are published or forthcoming, by Routledge as Ausonius: the Moselle, the Epigrams and Other Poems; and Prudentius, Peristephanon. A translation of Alcuin's poetry is currently forthcoming. Further afield, he has longer-term plans to investigate the Greco-Roman heroic ideal in early presidential biographies, such as Mason Weems' Life of Washington, and to study Lincoln's use of scripture. His first two books were Medieval Latin, second edition, 1997, a revision of K.P. Harrington's standard anthology; and The Full-Knowing Reader: Allusion and the Power of the Reader in the Western Literary Tradition, 1998). Funded Research Cogut Center for the Humanities, Brown University, award to support the conference, Late Literature in the Sixth Century: East and West (2013) and the conference, The Classics Renewed: A Bicoastal Conference on the Latin Poetry of Late Antiquity (2011); awards on the Marshall Woods Lectureship Fund, Brown University, 2011, 2013, to also support these conferences; Curricular Development Grant, Brown University, 1993, 2008; Odyssey Grant, Brown University, 1997; Wayland Collegium Course Grant, 1992; award on the Charles Cover Lectureships Fund, Brown University, 1991. Scholarly Work The Poetry of Alcuin of York (Routledge, forthcoming). Prudentius: Peristephanon, trans. Len Krisak, with Introduction and Notes by J.P. (Routledge, 2019). Ausonius: the Moselle, the Epigrams and Other Poems, trans., Deborah Warren, with Introducton and Notes by J.P. (Routledge, 2017). The Classics Renewed: Reception and Innovation in the Latin Poetry of Late Antiquity, with Scott McGill (Winter Verlag, 2016) Augustine's Virgilian Retreat: Reading the Auctores at Cassiciacum (PIMS, 2014) Fortunatus: Poems To Friends, A Translation with Introduction and Commentary (Hackett, 2010) The Full-Knowing Reader: Allusion and the Power of the Reader in the Western Literary Tradition (Yale, 1998) Medieval Latin (sec. ed., Chicago, 1997) Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 1987 PhD University of Chicago 1982 MA University of Chicago 1979 BA John Carroll University Honors and Awards Comfort and Urry Award for Advising, Mentoring and Motivation, Brown University, 2015 Named one of the "Best 300 Professors in the United States" by the Princeton Review, 2012 Karen T. Romer Award for Undergraduate Advising and Mentoring, Brown University, 2004 Nominee, Book History Prize for The Full-Knowing Reader , Society for the History of Authorship, Reading, and Publication (SHARP), 1999 Award for Outstanding Academic Advising, Brown University, 1998, 1999, 2001, 2013 John Rowe Workman Award for Excellence in Teaching in the Humanities, Brown University, 1996 Affiliations Visualize it Affiliations International Society for Late Antique Literary Studies [ISLALS] Medieval Latin Association of North America American Philological Association/Society for Classical Studies Medieval Academy of America Medieval Latin Studies Group Classical Association of New England Modern Language Association Teaching Teaching CLAS 0600 - The Literary Worlds of Late Antiquity CLAS 1120G - The Idea of Self CLAS 1120U - The American Presidents and the Western Tradition EMSL 2000 - Effective Leadership: Theory and Practice LATN 1110B - Augustine, <i>Confessions</i> LATN 1110F - Fortunatus LATN 1110H - Literature at the Court of Charlemagne LATN 1110L - Medieval Latin Lyric LATN 1120D - Alcuin About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO