Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Back to search Advanced search… Manage your Profile Jennifer B Nuzzo title="Email jennifer_nuzzo@brown.edu Overview Background View All × Website information Text: URL: Save Cancel Jennifer B Nuzzo Director, Pandemic Center, Professor of Epidemiology Overview Dr. Nuzzo is Professor of Epidemiology and Inaugural Director of the Pandemic Center at Brown University School of Public Health. She is also a Senior Fellow for Global Health at the Council on Foreign Relations. An epidemiologist by training, her work focuses on global health security, public health preparedness and response, and health systems resilience. Together with colleagues from the Nuclear Threat Initiative and Economist Impact, she co-leads the development of the first-ever Global Health Security Index, which benchmarks 195 countries’ public health and healthcare capacities and capabilities, their commitment to international norms and global health security financing, and socioeconomic, political, and environmental risk environments. She also directs the Outbreak Observatory, which conducts, in partnership with frontline public health practitioners, operational research to improve outbreak preparedness and response. Prior to coming to Brown, Dr. Nuzzo was an Associate Professor at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. She was also a Senior Scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. In addition to her scholarly work, Dr. Nuzzo regularly advises national governments and for-profit and nonprofit organizations on pandemic preparedness and response, including COVID-19. She is a pandemic advisor for Impact Assets’ Stop the Spread Campaign. She is currently a member of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine’s (NASEM) Standing Committee for CDC Center for Preparedness and Response. She has also served as a member of the US Environmental Protection Agency’s National Drinking Water Advisory Council (NDWAC) and the NDWAC’s Water Security Working Group, and as a project advisor for the American Water Works Association Research Foundation (now called the Water Research Foundation), a primary funding organization for drinking water research in the United States. Dr. Nuzzo regularly engages with media to educate and inform about emerging health security trends. Her articles have appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, USA Today, Fox News, Politico, The Hill, and The Boston Globe. She was featured in Debunking Borat, a television series on Amazon Prime Video, and her work was featured on Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. She served as Covid Advisor for the Borat Subsequent Moviefilm. Dr. Nuzzo received a DrPH in epidemiology from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, an SM in environmental health from Harvard University, and a BS in environmental sciences from Rutgers University. Brown Affiliations Epidemiology Background Education and Training Year Degree Institution 2014 DrPH Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health 2011 SM Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA 1999 BS Rutgers University Affiliations Visualize it Teaching About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO