Researchers@Brown Researchers@Brown Search Search Search Terms of Use Disclaimers This Researchers @ Brown website contains material—text information, publication citations, links, and images—provided by Brown University and by various third parties, both individuals and organizations, commercial and otherwise. To the extent copyrightable, the information presented on the VIVO website and available as Resource Description Framework (RDF) data from VIVO at Brown University is intended for public use and is freely distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons CC-BY 3.0 license which allows you to copy, distribute, display and make derivatives of this information provided you give credit to Brown University. Any non-copyrightable information is available to you under a CC0 waiver. However, source documents, images or web pages attached to or linked from VIVO may contain copyrighted information and should only be used or distributed under terms included with each source or in accordance with the principles of fair use. Disclaimer of Liability Brown University makes no warranty, expressed or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, currency or usefulness of any material displayed or distributed through the Researchers @ Brown website or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Brown University disclaims all warranties with regard to the information provided. Any reliance upon such information is at your own risk. In no event will Brown University be liable to you for any damages or losses whatsoever resulting from or caused by the Researchers @ Brown Terms of Use website or its contents. Disclaimer of Endorsement Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement or recommendation by Brown University. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of Brown University and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. About Help Brown University Feedback © 2017 Brown University | Terms of Use | Powered by VIVO