Skip to content Toggle navigation Health Initiatives About Mission & Vision Meet the Staff Data, Reports, & Publications Well-Being Get Started Mental Health & Wellbeing Professional Wellbeing Nutrition Relationships Alcohol Finance VOICE: Sexual Violence Prevention Body Positive GT Sexual Health Sleep Support Services Nutrition Counseling VOICE: Sexual Violence Victim-Survivor Support Outreach & Events Presentation Requests Condom Availability Program HIV Testing Online Education AlcoholEdu Mental Well-Being for Students Sexual Assault Prevention for Undergrads & Graduates Get Involved Well-Being Activators Healthy Jacket Peer Education Voice Peer Educators For Employees Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Quick Exit click or hit the escape key. Protect yourself online You are here: GT Home Home Well-Being VOICE: Sexual Violence Prevention & Victim-Survivor Support Overview of VOICE VOICE is Georgia Tech's sexual and relationship violence prevention and survivor support initiative based in the Office of Health Initiatives. Launched in 2002 and expanded in 2015, VOICE provides support to victim-survivors of sexual violence of all genders and those supporting survivors as well as educates the campus community about healthy relationships and sexual violence. Sexual violence is an umbrella term that includes sexual harassment, stalking, dating and domestic violence, as well as sexual assault and rape. We encourage you to continue exploring the rest of the VOICE website to find information about sexual violence, involvement opportunities, and resources for survivors of sexual violence or those supporting survivors. Email VOICE at voice@gatech.edu to join the VOICE listserv and receive periodic emails related to getting involved with VOICE and other upcoming programs and opportunities or visit the Get Involved page. GET HELP NOW Have you experienced sexual violence or have questions related to victim-survivor support, referrals, accommodations, and reporting options and need to speak to a VOICE Advocate? For confidential support contact the following: (404) 894-9000 24 hours per day 8am to 5pm Monday – Friday (404) 385-4464 Jennifer Gagen (404) 385-4451 Amanda Planchard Click here to schedule a meeting with a VOICE Advocate Appointments are available for individuals affiliated with Georgia Tech. Meet the VOICE Team Communities We Serve Victim-Survivor Support Learn about what to do if you have experienced sexual or relationship violence, reporting options, campus and community resources, how to help a victim-survivor, self-care for survivors and supporters, and information for faculty and staff. Click here for support Prevention and Education Learn more about what sexual violence is, definitions of some key terms like consent, and how we can all play a role to prevent sexual violence. Learn More About Preventing Sexual Violence Get Involved Learn more about how to request a presentation for your group or class, the Sexual Violence Prevention Alliance, the SGA Sexual Violence Advisory Board, the VOICE Peer Education Program, and the work we are doing through the Culture of Respect Collective here at Tech. Learn More about Getting Involved Vision & Mission The VOICE initiative uses the vision and mission as a driving force to address sexual and relationship violence in the Georgia Tech community. Vision Everyone has the right to live and learn at Georgia Tech, free of violence or the threat of violence. Mission To create a campus culture that encourages respect, communication, and equity among the Georgia Tech community. Goals Promote the idea that sexual violence is preventable; ensure that every member of the Georgia Tech community understands that they have a role in shaping a campus culture of non-violence. Create learning opportunities focused on sexual violence prevention and response that are strategically planned and evaluated to meet the needs of the Georgia Tech community. Ensure that cases of sexual violence are managed with respect and equity and that students recieve confidential and supportive resources. Empower students to promote non-violence to their peers through increased student involvement and engagement in VOICE programs and services. Ensure that Georgia Tech's policies relating to sexual violence are updated, comprehensive, supportive, and reflecting best practices. Provide the Georgia Tech community with accurate and consistent messages regarding sexual violence prevention and response. Engage faculty, staff, and administrators in collaborative sexual violence prevention and response activities in order to garner institutional support for a violence-free campus. Facebook Instagram Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Auxiliary Services Bookstore - Barnes and Noble @ Georgia Tech Buzzcard Center Campus Recreation Center Center for Community Health and Wellbeing Dining Services Initiatives Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center Health Initiatives Joseph P. Whitehead Building 740 Ferst Drive NW, Suite 232 Atlanta, GA 30332 (404) 894-9980 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © Georgia Institute of Technology Login