Home Skip to main content | Leadership Volunteer Engagement Contact Us Volunteer Opportunities MicrovolunteeringVolunteer Now!Board ServiceContact Us Volunteer Opportunities Toggle Dropdown MicrovolunteeringVolunteer Now!Board ServiceContact Us School, College and Unit Boards Regional Councils Young Alumni SU Alumni Association National Campaign Council (NCC) News and Events Toggle navigation Volunteer OpportunitiesToggle Dropdown for Volunteer<br/>Opportunities MicrovolunteeringVolunteer Now!Board ServiceContact Us School, College and Unit Boards Regional Councils Young Alumni SU Alumni Association National Campaign Council (NCC) News and Events Our volunteers make a difference! Whether it’s guest teaching a class, serving on a board, sponsoring immersion trips for students, or posting job opportunities in ‘Cuse Community, our volunteers support students and alumni in many ways. Join our volunteer network today by searching the volunteer opportunities in our links and staying connected to Syracuse University. Alumni, parents, and friends are vital to creating a network of support for Syracuse students and graduates. We hope to hear from you soon! Questions? Email lve@syr.edu Don't have a lot of time? Try microvolunteering! Get Started News and Events Daniel ’68, H’20 and Gayle D’Aniello Donate $10M to Invigorate Syracuse Abroad Florence Program, Expand Access for Students Daniel D’Aniello ’68, H’20 member of Syracuse University Board of Trustees and Whitman Advisory Council and co-chair of the Institute of Veterans and Military Families Advisory Board and wife, Gayle, generously invest in Syracuse University’s Florence program to improve facilities and opportunities for students and attract exceptional faculty. Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Kathy Walters '73 chair of the Syracuse University Board of Trustees and member of the Libraries Advisory Board and Atlanta Regional Council and her husband, Stan ’72, make a substantial gift to create the Kathy and Stan Walters Endowed Professorship for Quantum Science. It will help the University recruit and retain the most creative and innovative faculty. An Endowed Gift That Improves Prospects for the ‘Onlys’ Christine Carona '85 member of Syracuse University Board of Trustees and Boston Regional Council makes a generous gift to create the Carona, Beney and Malarney Family Endowed Faculty Fellowship in the Sciences. It will help to inspire young women and other underrepresented students in the sciences. Footer Section Advancement and External Affairs Office of Leadership Volunteer Engagement Syracuse University 640 Skytop Road, 2nd Floor Syracuse, New York 13244-5160 lve@syr.edu Syracuse University Links Syracuse University Home Syracuse University News Athletics Accessibility Privacy Policy Alumni Links Syracuse University Alumni Association Update Your Info Career Services Alumni Clubs Make a Gift Get Help Site Search Site Map Contact Us Search Syracuse University © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. back to top