Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Yale Votes Home Check Registration Register to Vote Vote in Connecticut Vote in Home State Election Reminders About Yale Votes Get Involved Home Welcome to Yale Votes Yale Votes is a non-partisan organization that strives to increase civic engagement among all Yalies and make the voting process as easy and clear as possible through active engagement with every member of the student body. The few minutes it will take to get informed are worthwhile. Your vote matters — and not just in national elections. In 2018, 88 seats for state legislatures were decided by less than half of a percentage point. 16 of these races were decided by 10 votes or fewer, and two were decided by a single vote. Take the Pledge to Engage to commit to casting your ballot in all upcoming elections and receive important information about voting. Website Guide/Resources This website is a one-stop-shop for voter registration and polling information. We are here to help you with everything from registering to vote to ordering an absentee ballot. Whether you are a graduate student or an undergraduate, voting in Connecticut or absentee, you can clarify all of your voting questions on this website. This website has information on the following: How to check your voter registration status How to register to vote Where to register to vote (i.e. home state vs. Connecticut) State by state voting information/guides How to request an absentee ballot Election reminders/deadlines What Yale Votes is and how to get involved Please refer to the navigation bar to find out more information about any of the available resources and how to become more engaged. If you have any further questions or would like to provide feedback on the website, please reach out to yalevotesinitiative@gmail.com. Check Registration Status Can’t remember if or where you are registered to vote? Use the Check Registration form. Register or Update Your Information Use the Register to Vote form to register for the first time or update your registration. Request an Absentee Ballot If you plan to vote absentee, please visit the Absentee Ballot Request tab. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Please remember: Yale Votes is an effort to help students register themselves. Students are responsible to verify local laws and policies regarding voting in their respective districts, and to ensure their registration and voting materials have been properly processed. Contact your local election representatives if you receive inaccurate registration and/or voting materials. Yale University does not endorse or oppose any political candidate or organization in connection with upcoming political campaigns or elections. Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr