By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe | The official source of information about Syracuse University's health and safety precautions Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Administration History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Events Calendar News Giving Opportunities Contact VPA AcademicsExpand Collapse section School of Art Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies Department of Creative Arts Therapy School of Design Department of Drama Department of Film and Media Arts Setnor School of Music Study Abroad Programs AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Student ServicesExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Career Advising Academic Advising PeopleExpand Collapse section Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty, Staff, and Student Resources Alumni VPA Council and Young Alumni Council Give Search Search Home News News VPA Faculty: Submit Research News Search News: Filter by year: Year202220212020201920182017 Filter by Group Topic Alumni News Faculty News Featured News Staff News Student News Filter by School/Department: School/Department Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies Department of Creative Arts Therapy Department of Drama Department of Film and Media Arts School of Art School of Design Setnor School of Music Featured News In Memoriam: Felix Ivanoff, Department of Drama Felix Ivanoff, associate professor of acting in the College of Visual and Performing Arts’ Department of Drama, passed away on Saturday, May 14, in Syracuse. He was 72. Born in Moscow, Russia, Ivanoff came to the United States in 1991. A teacher of acting, movement, stage combat, and clowning, he taught at numerous international and American colleges and universities and joined the Syracuse University faculty in 2008. Read More... Featured News Rabia Razzaq G’23 Wins 2022 Intelligence++ Inclusive Design Competition Rabia Razzaq G’23, a multidisciplinary designer and graduate student in the School of Design, won the 2022 Intelligence++ Showcase Competition, which encourages design and business students to imagine and create products, devices and services for persons with disabilities. Faculty News Andrew Saluti, assistant professor and program coordinator of museum studies in the School of Design, was quoted in the New York Times story "Taking the Museum Experience Outdoors." Featured News Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 to Deliver 2022 VPA Convocation Address Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 will deliver the 2022 convocation address to bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates of Syracuse University’s College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) at the college’s convocation ceremony on Saturday, May 14, at 7:30 p.m. in the Stadium. Vogel, who earned a bachelor of industrial design degree from VPA’s School of Design, is the founder of ImagineNOW Inc., an innovation consultancy that accelerates innovation by using the power of design thinking. She provides innovation consulting services to such large corporations as Google and to small technology start-ups. Read More... Featured News Two VPA Students Named 2022-23 Remembrance Scholars Two College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) students are among the 35 students chosen by Syracuse University’s Remembrance Scholar Selection Committee to be the 2022-23 Remembrance Scholars. Read More... Faculty News Diane Grimes, associate professor in the Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies, had her article "Can the Communication Discipline Critically Engage with Mindfulness?" published in the Western Journal of Communication. She also co-edited the special section of the journal that follows this introductory article. Lead author and editor; co-authors/editors are Shinsuke Eguchi and Bernadette Calafell. Faculty News Kelly Gallagher, assistant professor of film in the Department of Film and Media Arts, worked on the animation for two films that will be screened in June at the Tribeca Film Festival: After Sherman, directed by Jon-Sesrie Goff, and Body Parts, directed by Kristy Guevara-Flanagan. Featured News M.F.A. Exhibition ‘Steady/Retcon’ to be Exhibited on New York City’s Governors Island Master of fine arts (M.F.A.) candidates in the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) are presenting the thesis exhibition “Steady/Retcon” two weekends in May at the Syracuse University Governors Island House, 407A Colonels Row, Governors Island, New York City. Read More... Featured News Department of Drama presents ‘As You Like It’ The Syracuse University Department of Drama presents the final show of the 2021/2022 season with “As You Like It,” a ravishing new musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s classic story by Shaina Taub and Laurie Woolery. The production, directed by Rodney Hudson, will perform in the Storch Theater at the Syracuse Stage/Syracuse University Drama Complex, 820 E. Genesee St., April 30 to May 8. Read More... Faculty News Anne Laver, assistant professor of applied music and performance (organ) in the Setnor School of Music and University organist, gave a featured solo concert for the Eastman School of Music’s Women in Music Festival and gave the world premiere of Natalie Draper’s “Pattern Dances for Meantone Organ" with choreography by 25 dance students from the School of the Arts, a high school in the Rochester City School District. Draper is an assistant professor of composition, theory, and history in the Setnor School. Featured News New Biblio Gallery Exhibition Features Work of Graduate Student Manya Gadhok Syracuse University Libraries’ new Biblio Gallery exhibition on the 4th floor of Bird Library features the work of artist Manya Gadhok, a third-year master of fine arts in film student in the Department of Film and Media Arts. The exhibition is on display through May 9. Featured News Syracuse Stage Announces 2022-23 Season The six-show subscription season runs Sept. 21, 2022-June 25, 2023 and includes "Disney's The Little Mermaid," a family musical co-produced with the Department of Drama. Featured News College of Visual and Performing Arts Presents M.F.A. Exhibition ‘Steady/ Retcon’ Master of fine arts (M.F.A.) candidates in the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) are presenting the thesis exhibition “Steady/Retcon” through May 15 across three venues on the Syracuse University campus. Read More... Featured News Film Senior Cameron Gray Named 2022 University Scholar Cameron Gray, a film major in the College of Visual and Performing Arts’ Department of Film and Media Arts, was named one of 12 2022 Syracuse University Scholars, the highest undergraduate honor the University bestows. Featured News ACCelerate Creativity and Innovation Festival Gives Experiential Learning a Boost Three teams from Syracuse University will travel to Washington, D.C., in April to participate in the ACCelerate Festival, one of the Atlantic Coast Conference’s premier events. Visitors will view 25 interactive installations created by students and faculty, including Kairos: The Artifact led by Heath Hanlin, associate professor of computer art and animation in the Department of Film and Media Arts, with assistance from Emily Stokes-Rees, associate professor of museum studies and director of the School of Design. Featured News VPA Film Student Selected to Receive Graduate Dean’s Award Manya Gadhok, a graduate student in film in the Department of Film and Media Arts, was one of nine graduate students selected to receive Syracuse University's Graduate Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research and Creative Work. Award recipients were selected based on students’ outstanding accomplishments in research and creative work, as well as the quality and impact of proposed presentations. Featured News Department of Drama Presents the Modern Translation of ‘Cymbeline’ The College of Visual and Performing Arts' Department of Drama presents William Shakespeare’s fantastical romance “Cymbeline” in a modern verse translation by contemporary playwright Andrea Thome. Read More... Faculty News Seyeon Lee, associate professor of environmental and interior design in the School of Design, received the Presidential Award from the Interior Design Educators Council (IDEC). The award honors meritorious service by an IDEC member or non-member to the IDEC or interior design education. It is intended to recognize sustained and notable contributions over and above that expected by virtue of appointment or relationship to IDEC. Faculty News Emily Nolan, professor of practice in the Department of Creative Arts Therapy, co-authored the report "Social Media and Art Therapy Services: Adapting and Evolving" in Art Therapy (ahead of print). The brief report explored how using action research can help art therapy programs to pivot during unprecedented times. Featured News New Genet Gallery Exhibition Explores Etsy’s Role in the Art World A new exhibition at the Sue and Leon Genet Gallery explores the role that the online marketplace Etsy plays (or will play) in the art world through what is considered "fine art." "Caveat Emptor: Etsy in the Art World" aims to present the historical prevalence and popularity of mass-produced objects, as well as how online platforms such as Etsy offer a departure from traditional work made for the masses. Read More... Previous College of Visual and Performing Arts 200 Crouse College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram Find us on LinkedIn Find us on TikTok © Syracuse University Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy | VPA Website Feedback