Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Office of the Provost | HARVARD.EDU Search Who We Are Harvard Online Harvard Initiative for Learning and Teaching (HILT) Innovation in Learning Open Positions at VPAL What We Do Take a Course Check out our Annual Report Attend Events Teach & Learn Remotely Innovate in the Classroom Access Learning Tools Read "Into Practice" View VPAL Insights Explore New Degree Programs News Site Search HOME / HARVARD ONLINE / HarvardX HarvardX online courses bring Harvard’s extensive catalogue of expertise and research to learners around the globe. Launched in parallel with edX (a non-profit learning platform founded by Harvard and MIT), HarvardX independently represents Harvard’s academic diversity, showcasing the University’s highest quality offerings to serious learners everywhere. Will learning data science skills get you that promotion or next job? How does rhetoric from powerful speakers influence what you believe and how you act? What investments can society make to ensure that we don’t fail the next generation of children? Explore these topics and many others with the wide breadth of subjects Harvard has to offer. Take a Course Donate to HarvardX Teach A Course (Harvard Faculty) Take a Course With over 140 courses from disciplines across the University, HarvardX courses are for everyone—allowing learners to work independently, at their own pace, and begin courses at any time. Subjects range from Architecture and Design to Computer Science and have been taken by millions of learners from around the world. Learners can take individual courses, or choose from several Professional Certificate and XSeries courses. Take a Course Donate to HarvardX Your support enables faculty to create an extensive collection of online learning experiences accessed by millions of learners around the globe. HarvardX is a University-wide strategic initiative, overseen by the Office of the Vice Provost for Advances in Learning (VPAL). Your donation helps maintain free and low-cost access to these courses for all learners everywhere. Donate to HarvardX Teach a course (Harvard Faculty) HarvardX is designed to empower faculty to improve teaching and learning on-campus, online, and beyond. By combining instructional design and digital tools, HarvardX provides faculty with online teaching and learning pedagogical and research support. Explore teaching a course by reaching out to HarvardX through the proposal process. The process begins with a short Letter of Interest, which will be reviewed on a rolling basis. If the proposed project fits within the VPAL’s goals, the faculty member will work with the HarvardX team to develop a course Scope of Work. Please also review the HarvardX Principles for Faculty. Submit a Letter of Interest (Harvard Faculty) HarvardX Series Data Science Gain in-depth knowledge of fundamental data science concepts through motivating real-world case studies The Future of ML is Tiny and Bright Learn the fundamentals of machine learning, gather data, and design your own applications. History of China: Bronze Age to the Last Dynasties Learn about China’s origins and how early concepts in Chinese culture still matter in the 21st century History of China: The Modern Era An overview of modern Chinese history, from the end of the imperial era to today. World Religions Through Their Scriptures Explore how scriptures are interpreted to diverse ends in different historical and cultural contexts. U.S. Government An introduction to American government and politics. Fundamentals of Neuroscience Neuroscience from the function of neurons to brain structure. Shakespeare's Outsiders Study Shakespeare through his key characters. Data Analysis for Genomics Advanced techniques to analyze genomic data. Computer Science for Web Programming Gain a broad and robust understanding of computer science and programming Computer Science for Artificial Intelligence Gain a broad and robust understanding of computer science and artificial intelligence principles. Computer Science for Game Development Learn the principles of 2D and 3D graphics, animation, sound, and collision detection Computer Science and Mobile Apps Master components, props, state, style, views, user input, components, and debugging. CS50's AP® Computer Science Principles Explore concepts like abstraction, algorithms, data structures, security, software engineering, and web development. Data Analysis of Life Science Basic statistical concepts and R programming skills for analyzing data in the life sciences. Classical Works Understand the revolutionary relationships created between music, drama, and storytelling in opera. Trending Courses CS50: Introduction to Computer Science An introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. Justice An introduction to moral and political philosophy, offering an opportunity to discuss contemporary dilemmas and controversies. Entrepreneurship in Emerging Economies Explore how entrepreneurship and innovation tackle complex social problems in emerging economies. Remote Work Revolution for Everyone Learn how to build trust, increase productivity, use digital tools intelligently, and remain fully aligned with your remote team. PredictionX: Lost Without Longitude Explore the history of navigation, from stars to satellites. Food Fermentation: The Science of Cooking with Microbes Explore the roles that microbes play in the production and learn about the history of food fermentations. We the People: Civic Engagement in a Constitutional Democracy Gain a foundational knowledge of American constitutional democracy while crafting your own civic voice and identity. Rhetoric: The Art of Persuasive Writing and Public Speaking Gain critical communication skills in writing and public speaking with this introduction to American political rhetoric. Early Childhood Development: Global Strategies for Interventions Examine best practices in child and family policies, advocacy, financing, and pathways to scale. From Our Learners “Excellent course! Very insightful and helped me to verbalize the details of my teaching philosophy. Leaders of Learning is a great course for each and every individual to pursue. If you are interested in learning, teaching or leading, join this course.” - Prashant “CS50 turned out to be precisely what I wanted. The platform is reliable, the UX is crisp, and, most importantly, the course content is phenomenal. Professor David Malan and his army of TAs put an absurd amount of effort into giving Intro to Computer Science actual LIFE. From the first video, it inspired that nervous excitement that always accompanied my setting foot into a lecture hall for the first time. This wasn't YouTube, this was the Real Deal.” - Erik “This series of courses on China (ChinaX) is one of the best classes I've ever taken, in my entire academic life. Extremely interesting, very thought provoking, and taught by instructors who are extremely enthusiastic about the topic.” - Allison Research Statement By registering as an online learner in our open online courses, you are also participating in research intended to enhance HarvardX's instructional offerings as well as the quality of learning and related sciences worldwide. In the interest of research, you may be exposed to some variations in the course materials. HarvardX does not use learner data for any purpose beyond the University's stated missions of education and research. For purposes of research, we may share information we collect from online learning activities, including Personally Identifiable Information, with researchers beyond Harvard. However, your Personally Identifiable Information will only be shared as permitted by applicable law, will be limited to what is necessary to perform the research, and will be subject to an agreement to protect the data. We may also share with the public or third parties aggregated information that does not personally identify you. Similarly, any research findings will be reported at the aggregate level and will not expose your personal identity. Please read the edX Privacy Policy for more information regarding the processing, transmission and use of data collected through the edX platform. Harvard Online HarvardX Harvard on Contemporary Themes For Organizations Office of the Provost Harvard University Digital Accessibility Policy VPAL DEI Commitment Statement Contact Us Who We Are What We Do News & Events 564fbc82dc0793cb617195bac7cb3ccf abb4502b8d1ee15283bbaf4c163f30c8 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement