Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Interdisciplinary Learning » Stanford Graduate Summer Institute SGSI Explore. Experiment. Expand. Stanford Graduate Summer Institute: an immersive, interdisciplinary week of accelerated summer courses for Stanford graduate students. For free! About SGSI SGSI Courses - 2022 SGSI Courses - 2021 SGSI Courses - 2020 SGSI Courses - 2019 Stanford Graduate Summer Institute The Stanford Graduate Summer Institute (SGSI) is a week-long collection of accelerated courses held two weeks before Autumn Quarter. And it's free! At SGSI, you can explore new subjects, experiment with new ideas, and meet new people, expanding your community for the years to come. Courses are immersive, interactive, and engaging. You won’t earn credits, but did we mention that they’re free?! Round 2 deadline is Sun., June 5. Apply Now Postdoctoral scholars can apply on June 20. For questions, please contact vpgeapplications @stanford.edu. When is it? SGSI is taking place September 12-16, 2022. SGSI happens two weeks before Autumn Quarter begins so that you can immerse yourself without academic-year pressures. This timing also allows new students to participate in New Graduate Student Orientation activities, which take place the week after SGSI. Some course schedules may vary, so please review each course’s specific schedule carefully and cross-reference with your calendar to ensure you can fully commit to your intended course. Who can participate? SGSI is open to current and incoming graduate and professional students who will be enrolled in a degree program in Autumn 2022. Each course is different, so check out their pages to learn more about their desired audience. Postdoctoral scholars will be invited to apply starting in mid-June. Will SGSI be in-person in 2022? We are planning for SGSI 2022 to be offered fully in-person, and all participants are required to be on campus during the week of instruction. This is subject to change pending public health and university guidelines at that time. We will keep students informed of any changes promptly. What if I need to miss a day? Full participation is expected of SGSI participants. VPGE and SGSI instructors make every effort to accommodate participants who must miss part of SGSI due to foreseen circumstances such as religious holidays or unforeseen circumstances such as family emergencies. If you realize you will have a conflict with any part of SGSI please email vpgeapplications@stanford.edu as soon as possible so that we can communicate directly with you about your options. When is the deadline? The priority deadline for applying to SGSI is Sunday, May 8, 2022. However, courses will accept applications until they are full and we recommend you apply as early as possible. As courses fill, they will be noted as “closed” on the course description page and will no longer accept new applicants. Wait-lists are kept at the instructor’s discretion. The application closes for good on Sunday, Aug. 14, 2022. How do I apply? Read the course descriptions and click the Apply button to begin. You will be asked to indicate your first and second choice courses and to briefly describe your interest in each course. NOTE: You’ll need a Stanford University Network ID (SUNet ID) and password to apply. Set one up your account here: https://accounts.stanford.edu. All SGSI correspondence, some of which is time-sensitive, will be sent to your Stanford email account, so make sure to check it! How many SGSI courses can I take? Participants can enroll in one course during the week of SGSI. All SGSI courses run concurrently and individual course schedules vary. Select and apply for up to two courses that best match your interests and schedule. If you are offered admission to a course and accept that offer, that is the course you’ll be enrolled in for the duration of SGSI. In extreme cases, a course may be canceled. If you are enrolled in or have a pending application in a canceled course, you will be notified immediately and offered a spot in other courses where possible. Are there prerequisites? There are no prerequisites for participation. New and returning students from all degree programs are welcome to apply. How do I confirm my commitment to a course? You will be notified by email that you’ve been accepted to a course. From there, you will need to confirm your participation by submitting a Student Participation Fee Agreement. The Fee Agreement is a deposit to ensure that participants fulfill their commitment to the program, especially since it is space-limited. It authorizes VPGE to charge $100 to your Stanford bill if you do not fully attend the program. Exceptions may be made for extenuating circumstances that are communicated in a timely manner. Participants are not charged for absences caused by unforeseen emergencies. Once you are offered admission to a course, please confirm your participation promptly, otherwise, your slot may be given to another student. If I participate in SGSI, can I move into my university housing assignment early? Yes. University housing is aware of SGSI and has worked with participants in the past to arrange move-in dates that allow them to be fully moved in by the time SGSI begins. Please note that participating in SGSI may require an earlier move-in date than you were anticipating, resulting in additional housing costs. Please contact Stanford Student Housing for any housing-related questions you may have. NOTE (international students): The 30-day window allotted for you to arrive in the US before the start of your graduate program is sufficient for your participation in SGSI. You do not need to request an earlier date of entry. Do the courses offer credit or have any fees? SGSI courses are free and do not offer grades or credit. Courses won’t show up on your transcript, though you can list them on your resume or curriculum vitae. Is it part of the Summer academic session? No, SGSI is not a part of the Summer academic session. Rather, it is considered an early fall quarter program similar to NGSO. Is Stanford Ignite part of SGSI? No. Stanford Ignite is a separate program and it is not free. Learn more here. Don’t see your question answered here? Email us! vpgeapplications@stanford.edu Read about 2022 SGSI courses About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints