Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Events Events Upcoming Events Past Events Programs Thrive at Stanford. Prepare for a flourishing career with Grad Grow. Grad Grow Overview Find more resources A Perspective from a second-generation Asian American Tuesday, May 31, 2022 - 1:30pm Add to Calendar iCalendar Outlook Google Yahoo A Perspective from a second-generation Asian American POC-IT AAPI Celebration Tuesday, May 31, 2022, 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM POC-IT Affinity Group Page Join POC-IT in their celebration of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage month! Hear from guest speaker, Cindy Cho, President of the Asian-American Staff Forum and Sr. Human Resources Manager, School of Humanities and Sciences. Cindy will share her identity journey as a second-generation, Chinese Asian American growing up in the Bay Area. She will talk about how she was raised, how this has impacted who she is and the journey she has taken and is still on in her personal and professional life. There will be 10 minutes for Q&A at the end of Cindy's talk. More about Cindy Cindy is a human resources manager providing a full range of HR services to management and employees in the School of Humanities and Sciences. Prior to joining H&S, Cindy worked in HR roles at the School of Medicine and Graduate School of Education. She had a past life in Los Angeles, working at UCLA and startups. Cindy has been the chair of the Asian Staff Forum since 2012 at Stanford and serves on two HR committees. Register here! https://itcommunity.stanford.edu/events/poc-it-aapi-celebration-perspective-second-generation-asian-american View on site | Email this event More Information: Read more on events.stanford.edu Grad Grow Competency: Time Commitment: < 3 hours About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints