Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Diversity Initiatives Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Programs & Funding Stanford’s commitment to diversity includes support for programs that help us achieve a diverse and successful graduate student body. The VPGE office funds student-led projects that promote diversity and offers competitive fellowships for students from diverse backgrounds, such as DARE and EDGE. Individual schools may also provide financial support for individual students and for diversity initiatives. Contact the Diversity Officer in your school to discuss possibilities. Diversity Works Come together with academic leaders to discuss issues related to diversity and excellence in higher education at Diversity Works. WISE and WISSH Groups Since June 2001, Stanford has sponsored mentoring groups for women doctoral students and postdoctoral scholars in science and engineering (WISE). For the past several years, a similar program has also been available for women PhD students and postdocs in the social sciences and the humanities (WISSH). Funding Back to Top Eligibility Process Application Period CCSRE: Center for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity Graduate Fellowships CCSRE provides three-year fellowships to incoming doctoral students, who are interested in the study of the meanings, processes, and consequences of race, ethnicity and inequality. Learn more Incoming Doctoral Students by Nomination Winter quarter DARE: Diversifying Academia, Recruiting Excellence The DARE Doctoral Fellowship prepares students from diverse backgrounds to pursue and succeed in academic careers. Learn more Doctoral Students by Application Winter quarter DDRO: Diversity Dissertation Research Opportunity DDRO funds cover expenses for doctoral dissertation research on diversity-related topics. Learn more Doctoral Students by Application Winter quarter DIF: Diversity and Inclusion Innovation Funds DIF is a program that supports Stanford graduate students and postdoctoral scholars in the development of a project that will advance diversity within those populations. Learn more All Students, Postdoctoral Scholars by Application Spring quarter EDGE: Enhancing Diversity in Graduate Education Doctoral Fellowship Program EDGE aims to recruit and retain outstanding doctoral students who will contribute to the diversity of their academic fields and degree programs. Learn more Incoming Doctoral Students by Nomination Winter quarter RAISE: Research, Action, and Impact through Strategic Engagement Doctoral Fellowship RAISE Doctoral Fellowship Program supports doctoral students who are motivated to make positive contributions to their communities and the world through their research and scholarship. Learn more Doctoral Students by Application Winter quarter Recruitment Support to Departments Recruitment support provides reimbursement for faculty and degree program efforts to recruit a diverse graduate student population. Learn more Faculty, Departments by Nomination Winter quarter SCORE (Strengthening the Core) Academic Innovation Funds SCORE Academic Innovation Funds support faculty-led innovations in core areas of graduate education. Learn more Faculty by Application Applications welcome anytime SPICE: Student Projects for Intellectual Community Enhancement SPICE funds support graduate students' efforts to build and expand their intellectual communities at Stanford. Learn more All Students by Application Spring quarter See all VPGE Fellowships & Funding About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints