Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Events Events Upcoming Events Past Events Programs Thrive at Stanford. Prepare for a flourishing career with Grad Grow. Grad Grow Overview Find more resources Stanford Earth DEI Community Party at Terman Fountain Tuesday, May 31, 2022 - 4:30pm Add to Calendar iCalendar Outlook Google Yahoo Stanford Earth's office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion will be hosting our first annual Community DEI Party to celebrate the diversity of our school and to honor all those who have contributed to advancing the DEI Action Plan at Stanford Earth. The party begins on Tuesday, May 31st from 4:30-6:30 at the Terman Fountain near the Mitchell Earth Sciences Building. Join us for free food, drinks (alcoholic and non-alcoholic), fun games, prizes, and live music provided by Los Hijos de José featuring guitarist and Stanford University's own Associate Vice Provost for Graduate Education (VPGE) Dr. Chris Gonzalez Clarke. Stanford Earth Dean Steve Graham and the DEI office will kick-off the party with remarks recognizing the winner of the Stanford Earth Excellence in DEI Award. We will also have a book raffle and announce the winners of the E-sticker program! This is a chance to come together as a community, recognize our accomplishments, and celebrate the end of the academic year. Hope to see you there! View on site | Email this event More Information: Read more on events.stanford.edu Grad Grow Competency: Time Commitment: < 3 hours About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints