Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Interdisciplinary Learning Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Programs & Funding Programs sponsored by the VPGE office attract graduate students from all over campus and are a great way to experience interdisciplinary learning. The programs listed below also feature interdisciplinary learning as one of their main objectives. Designing the Professional Once you get your degree, how do you get a life? What do you want out of life after Stanford? Wondering how to weave together what fits, is doable, and will be truly meaningful? Then join us for Designing the Professional, offered in several different formats as a program or course. EPIC Resilience: Surviving & Thriving in Chaos Prepare for working in an era of relentless change Finding Purpose and Meaning During Challenging Times Explore the science and art of purpose and practice essential tools for living a life of authenticity, connection, and impact. Impostor Syndrome: "Am I An Impostor? And If So, So What?" Hear about real life experiences with impostor syndrome from Professor Margot Gerritsen and discuss steps toward overcoming it. Leadership Bootcamp: Communication, Negotiation, and Influence Explore the science and art of purpose and practice essential tools for living a life of authenticity, connection, and impact. Meditation: Good for More Than Getting More Done An overview of the science of meditation, highlight various forms and practices of meditation, and explore the practical how of implementing a meditation practice that works for you. Stanford Ignite Got innovation? Learn how to formulate, develop, and commercialize your ideas with Stanford Ignite. Led by the Graduate School of Business, Stanford Ignite is a certificate program that provides the business fundamentals necessary to succeed at any entrepreneurial or intrapreneurial venture. VPGE Pop-Ups Staff and faculty can invite VPGE to present a professional development workshop to your graduate students. Funding Back to Top Eligibility Process Application Period DIF: Diversity and Inclusion Innovation Funds DIF is a program that supports Stanford graduate students and postdoctoral scholars in the development of a project that will advance diversity within those populations. Learn more All Students, Postdoctoral Scholars by Application Spring quarter RAISE: Research, Action, and Impact through Strategic Engagement Doctoral Fellowship RAISE Doctoral Fellowship Program supports doctoral students who are motivated to make positive contributions to their communities and the world through their research and scholarship. Learn more Doctoral Students by Application Winter quarter SCORE (Strengthening the Core) Academic Innovation Funds SCORE Academic Innovation Funds support faculty-led innovations in core areas of graduate education. Learn more Faculty by Application Applications welcome anytime SIGF: Stanford Interdisciplinary Graduate Fellowship SIGF supports doctoral students whose research crosses traditional disciplinary boundaries. Learn more Doctoral Students by Application Winter quarter SPICE: Student Projects for Intellectual Community Enhancement SPICE funds support graduate students' efforts to build and expand their intellectual communities at Stanford. Learn more All Students by Application Spring quarter See all VPGE Fellowships & Funding About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints