Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home Select Partners Ethnic and Community Centers Career Centers All Partners Get Connected to #VPGE @StanfordVPGE @StanfordVPGE @StanfordVPGE Campus Partners VPGE partners with campus offices that share our commitment to graduate student growth and development. Explore their offerings to learn more about the resources, opportunities, and support available to graduate students at Stanford. Asian American Activities Center The Asian American Activities Center (A³C) serves as Stanford's primary resource for Asian American student affairs and community development. Asian American Activities Center BEAM, Stanford Career Education Career educators at BEAM help students explore career paths, identify and apply for opportunities, and cultivate personalized networks that shape their professional journeys. BEAM, Stanford Career Education Bechtel International Center The Bechtel International Center supports all international students and administers international scholarships on behalf of the University. Bechtel International Center BioSci Careers BioSci Careers provides critical support for the exploration of career options, development of professional skill sets, and connections to opportunities. BioSci Careers Black Community Services Center The Black Community Services Center (BCSC) supports the advancement and excellence of Black students and Black student groups within the Stanford community. Black Community Services Center Career Management Center (GSB) The Graduate School of Business' Career Management Center (CMC) supports students and alumni in creating a unique career vision and connecting these leaders with world-class opportunities. Career Management Center (GSB) Center for Teaching and Learning The Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) promotes and advances the vibrant, intellectual endeavor of teaching and learning at Stanford. Center for Teaching and Learning Clayman Institute for Gender Research The Clayman Institute for Gender Research creates knowledge and seeks to implement change that promotes gender equality at Stanford, nationally, and internationally. Clayman Institute for Gender Research El Centro Chicano y Latino El Centro Chicano y Latino programs provide students the opportunity to explore Chicano and Latino culture, history, and traditions. El Centro Chicano y Latino English for Foreign Students English for Foreign Students (EFS) courses are aimed specifically at improving English language proficiency for graduate study and professional development. English for Foreign Students Graduate Life Office The Graduate Life Office (GLO) helps graduate students with many personal, academic, and financial issues. Graduate Life Office Haas Center for Public Service The Haas Center for Public Service inspires and prepares students to create a more just and sustainable world through service, scholarship, and community partnerships. Haas Center for Public Service Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (d.school) The d.school is a hub for Stanford faculty and students of all levels and fields to learn and practice the principles of design thinking. Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (d.school) Hume Center for Writing and Speaking The Hume Center for Writing and Speaking works with all Stanford students to help them develop rich and varied abilities in every aspect of writing and oral communication. Hume Center for Writing and Speaking Native American Cultural Center The Native American Cultural Center (NACC) provides thorough support to the Stanford Native community and a space to share ideas and enhance the Stanford experience. Native American Cultural Center Office of Career Services (SLS) The Stanford Law School's Office of Career Services (OCS) serves as a bridge between students, alumni, and employers. Office of Career Services (SLS) Office of Faculty Development, Diversity and Engagement The Office of Faculty Development, Diversity and Engagement (OFDDE) supports Stanford faculty through a variety of programs, such as orientation, talks, workshops, and events. Office of Faculty Development, Diversity and Engagement Office of Graduate Education (Stanford Biosciences) The Office of Graduate Education (OGE) for Stanford Biosciences aims to help train and empower the next generation of leaders and innovators. Office of Graduate Education (Stanford Biosciences) Office of Postdoctoral Affairs The Office of Postdoctoral Affairs (OPA) oversees, develops and manages policies related to postdoctoral scholars at Stanford; and offers educational programs and services to postdoctoral scholars. Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Oral Communication Program The Oral Communication Program (OCP) of the Hume Center for Writing and Speaking enhances students' presentation and communication skills. Oral Communication Program Queer Student Resources Queer Student Resources partners with appropriate university offices to provide coaching, individual case management and referrals to students in need. Queer Student Resources Stanford Alumni Association The Stanford Alumni Association (SAA) seeks to foster a lifelong intellectual and emotional connection between the University and its graduates. Stanford Alumni Association Stanford EdCareers Stanford EdCareers, the career resources center at the Graduate School of Education, engages its students and alumni in lifelong career exploration. Stanford EdCareers Technical/STEM Communication Program The School of Engineering's Technical Communication Program (TCP) is a resource for students seeking to strengthen their technical writing and/or speaking skills. Technical Communication Program The Markaz Resource Center The Markaz Resource Center is unique in its cultural focus and goal of serving all students interested in Africa, the Middle East, and central, south and southeast Asia, as well as the American Muslim experience. The Markaz Resource Center Women's Community Center The Women's Community Center (WCC) sponsors programs that promote women's success as scholars, leaders, and activists at Stanford and beyond. Women's Community Center About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints