Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Events Events Upcoming Events Past Events Programs Filter by Area of Focus - Any -Academic GuidanceDiversity InitiativesFellowships & FundingInterdisciplinary LearningProfessional Development Filter by Quarter - Any -AutumnWinterSpringSummer Grad Grow Competency - Any -CommunicationTeaching & MentoringProfessionalismDiversity, Equity, & InclusionLeadership & ManagementCareer Development Programs Academic Chats Could a faculty career be in your future? Attend Academic Chats to explore skills and experience to help you prepare from Stanford faculty and staff. Communicating Effectively with Your Advisor Want to learn skills to communicate better and resolve issues with your faculty advisor? Communicating Effectively with Your Advisor workshop helps you develop a healthy and productive relationship with your faculty advisor. Crucial Conversations Through a dynamic mix of theory, demonstration, and practice, this two-session workshop provides a solid foundation for more principled, persuasive, and successful conversations in a variety of contexts. Designing the Professional Once you get your degree, how do you get a life? What do you want out of life after Stanford? Wondering how to weave together what fits, is doable, and will be truly meaningful? Then join us for Designing the Professional, offered in several different formats as a program or course. Diversity Works Come together with academic leaders to discuss issues related to diversity and excellence in higher education at Diversity Works. EPIC Resilience: Surviving & Thriving in Chaos Prepare for working in an era of relentless change Fellows Forum Expand your academic and professional skills and meet new people at Fellows Forum. Designed for early-mid stage doctoral students, and open to all graduate students. Finding Purpose and Meaning During Challenging Times Explore the science and art of purpose and practice essential tools for living a life of authenticity, connection, and impact. Flourishing: The Art and Science of a Life Well Lived What is human flourishing and how do we practice it in an age of hyper-complexity and ever-accelerating pace? Impostor Syndrome: "Am I An Impostor? And If So, So What?" Hear about real life experiences with impostor syndrome from Professor Margot Gerritsen and discuss steps toward overcoming it. Leadership Bootcamp: Communication, Negotiation, and Influence Explore the science and art of purpose and practice essential tools for living a life of authenticity, connection, and impact. Meditation: Good for More Than Getting More Done An overview of the science of meditation, highlight various forms and practices of meditation, and explore the practical how of implementing a meditation practice that works for you. Negotiation Matters Learn how to negotiate with colleagues, bosses, partners, friends, clients, and many others. Through a dynamic mix of theory, demonstration, and practice, this two-session workshop provides a solid foundation for more principled, persuasive, and successful negotiation in a variety of contexts. Preparing for Faculty Careers Course (EDUC 343C) How will you prepare yourself to obtain a great faculty job - and to thrive as a professor once you begin your career? The Preparing for Faculty Careers course (EDUC 343C, Spring Q) is designed for advanced doctoral students and postdoctoral scholars from any discipline who are considering a faculty career. Preparing Future Professors What does it take to be a faculty member at a teaching-focused university or community college? Preparing Future Professors gives you a chance to experience faculty life first-hand by shadowing a faculty member at Foothill College, Menlo College, San Jose State University, San Francisco State, West Valley College, or University of San Francisco. Quick Bytes Gain valuable professional development skills that you can apply right away! Quick Bytes sessions cover a variety of topics. Slide Design Mini Boot Camp Elevate the aesthetic appeal and communicative force of your slide deck to make your message stand out. Stanford Ignite Got innovation? Learn how to formulate, develop, and commercialize your ideas with Stanford Ignite. Led by the Graduate School of Business, Stanford Ignite is a certificate program that provides the business fundamentals necessary to succeed at any entrepreneurial or intrapreneurial venture. Summer 2020 Provost's Graduate Teaching Fellows Program VPGE Pop-Ups Staff and faculty can invite VPGE to present a professional development workshop to your graduate students. WISE and WISSH Groups Since June 2001, Stanford has sponsored mentoring groups for women doctoral students and postdoctoral scholars in science and engineering (WISE). For the past several years, a similar program has also been available for women PhD students and postdocs in the social sciences and the humanities (WISSH). About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints