Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » About VPGE About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost Staff History & Milestones Contact Us Meet the Vice Provost Zhihua Chen Stacey F. Bent, Jagdeep and Roshni Singh Professor in the School of Engineering, was appointed Stanford’s Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs beginning September 1, 2019. Bent has long been involved in identifying ways to advance graduate and undergraduate students’ educational experiences. In addition to mentoring many trainees in her own research group, she has served on several commissions focused on education. In 2005, she served on the Commission on Graduate Education that recommended the creation of the vice provost position and office to address a variety of complex issues stemming from the decentralized practices within the university’s seven Schools. She co-chaired the Academic Steering Group on Education for Stanford’s long-range planning effort in 2017-18 and served on the American Chemical Society’s Presidential Commission on Graduate Education in the Chemical Sciences in 2011-12. Bent is also a professor in Chemical Engineering and, by courtesy, in Materials Science & Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Chemistry. She formerly served as chair of the Department of Chemical Engineering and as the director of the TomKat Center for Sustainable Energy for 10 years. Prior to her appointment as Vice Provost, Bent also served as Senior Associate Dean for Faculty and Academic Affairs in the School of Engineering. Read more about the Bent Research Group. Sharing her excitement about serving as Stanford's second Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs, Bent noted: I am honored to have the opportunity to represent Stanford’s graduate student and postdoctoral scholar communities as the vice provost for graduate education and postdoctoral affairs. Our office works collaboratively across the university to enhance the educational experience of Stanford’s students and postdoctoral scholars and foster their professional and personal development. We help provide them with the tools to have a successful and fulfilling experience at Stanford that will prepare them to thrive in and contribute to a changing world. I was the beneficiary of a Stanford graduate education as a PhD student in Chemistry, where I was fortunate to be given the time during those years to engage deeply in fundamental research within my discipline. The work was as challenging as it was rewarding; it was a unique time in my life when I was able to devote my intellectual energy so completely to the pursuit of new knowledge. At the same time, I was able to enjoy other qualities of a Stanford education, not least of which was the close friendships and professional relationships that I formed over those years. A favorite part of my job as a faculty member has been serving as a research advisor to dozens of Stanford graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. They bring fresh eyes to longstanding problems in research and pursue their studies with both passion and dedication while maintaining a sense of balance. I am proud of our students, who are much better equipped to take advantage of the broad range of opportunities offered by Stanford than I was. For example, many of our students today complement their disciplinary education with offerings such as professional development, interdisciplinary studies, or networking events; they get involved in public service; they explore entrepreneurial ventures—in short, they pursue their varied interests across and beyond this wonderful university. I encourage you to take full advantage of the incredible academics and other opportunities that this special place has to offer. Stacey F. Bent Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs Jagdeep and Roshni Singh Professor in the School of Engineering About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints