Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Interdisciplinary Learning Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Networking & Learning Stanford Ignite immerses students in a condensed Graduate School of Business curriculum. Stanford Ignite Stanford offers abundant opportunities for students to work and learn on interdisciplinary teams. Expand your networks, challenge your creativity, and collaborate to find novel solutions to problems from the real world. VPGE-Supported Opportunities Haas Center Graduate Public Service Fellowship The one-year Haas Center Graduate Public Service (GPS) Fellowship provides a supportive, multidisciplinary network to graduate students who want to integrate public service into their academic and professional careers. The program is run by the Haas Center for Public Service, with support from VPGE. Learn more about the GPS Fellowship Stanford Ignite This intensive program from the Graduate School of Business teaches new innovators to formulate, develop, and commercialize their ideas. Participants learn the fundamentals of business and the practical aspects of identifying and evaluating business ideas and moving them forward. Offered full time in summer and part time during Winter quarter. Stanford graduate students and postdocs can enroll in the program for a substantially reduced cost due to subsidization from VPGE. Learn more about Stanford Ignite Beyond VPGE Interdisciplinary Degree Programs Stanford hosts over 30 interdisciplinary undergraduate and graduate degree-granting programs. These academic programs cross traditional boundaries and welcome students from many fields. Browse interdisciplinary programs Knight-Hennessy Scholars The Knight-Hennessy Scholars program will annually identify a group of 100 high-achieving students from around the world with demonstrated leadership and civic commitment to receive full funding to pursue a wide-ranging graduate education at Stanford, with the goal of developing a new generation of global leaders. The Knight-Hennessy Scholars is the largest fully endowed scholars program in the world. Learn more about the program Joint Degree Programs Joint Degree Programs are approved combinations of two graduate degrees that allow students to complete both degrees with a reduction of residency requirements. There are over 30 approved JDPs. Browse Joint Degree Programs Stanford Technology Ventures Program The School of Engineering's entrepreneurship education and research center, the Stanford Technology Ventures Program (STVP), offers programs and courses in innovation, creativity, and entrepreneurship. Learn more about STVP Explore Courses in Entrepreneurship Venture Studio The Stanford Venture Studio is a program for Stanford graduate student teams exploring new venture ideas. It connects students to entrepreneurial expertise, resources and a community of like-minded peers and alumni. Learn more about venture studio Explore other entrepreneurship Courses Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (the d.school) Using design thinking as the glue for collaboration and innovation, the d.school teaches project-based interdisciplinary classes around themes or initiatives. Participants tackle real world projects to learn more about design thinking and practice innovating together. Discover the d.school Browse d.school courses Interdisciplinary, Cross-School Courses Search Explore Courses with the key word “interdisciplinary” to see hundreds of graduate level courses with interdisciplinary in their description. Take advantage of Stanford's open registration policy to learn from star faculty, no matter what department or degree you are pursuing. Find interdisciplinary courses Related Links Stanford Graduate Summer Institute About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints