Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Academic Guidance Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention School Dean's Office Contacts Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Crisis Phone Numbers Imminent danger or medical emergency If you fear that someone is an imminent danger to themselves or others, call 911 (from a regular phone) or 9-911 (from a campus phone) first. For non-life threatening medical concerns, call Vaden Student Health Center: (650) 498-2336, ext. 1. Graduate Life Office (GLO) Reach a GLO Dean 24/7 via pager Text the GLO pager at 25085@pageme.stanford.edu. Include your name and reason for paging in the message. OR Call the GLO pager at 650-723-7288. You will reach a Stanford operator. Provide pager ID #25085 and indicate that you need to reach the graduate dean-on-call. Psychological help Contact Counseling and Psychological Services 24-hours a day, including evenings and weekends, at (650) 723-3785 to speak with a licensed clinician. Even after-hours, someone will be available to speak with you, assess your situation and offer support and/or recommendations for follow-up. Walk-in appointments are available Monday through Friday, 9am-4pm, at 866 Campus Drive. Sexual Assualt Stanford Confidential Support Team: (650) 725-9955 YWCA: (800) 572-2782 Wondering if your concerns warrant a visit or phone call? Go with your instinct: if you’re asking the question, make the call. Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention As a Stanford graduate student, you do not need to face a problem or crisis alone. Help is available when you need it — in some cases, 24 hours a day. Your academic success is closely tied to your physical and emotional health. We encourage you to take advantage of the many campus resources dedicated to your well-being. A good starting place is your program's student services staff or faculty Director of Graduate Studies or Chair. Staff in the offices below, as well as VPGE staff, are also available to help (offices marked with asterisk* provide confidential support). Well-Being Resources Explore the extensive resources designed to support your well-being. Well-Being Resources Well-Being Tips Stanford Red Folder Stanford Recreation & Wellness School Deans’ Offices Your degree program staff and faculty can help you resolve academic issues; your School Dean’s office staff and faculty leaders may also be helpful. School Dean's Office Contacts School Diversity Officers Graduate Life Office (GLO) GLO Deans consult with students about a wide range of issues faced while in graduate school, from academic concerns to relationship, housing, and financial challenges. Learn More About GLO Students with Children Vaden Health Center* Vaden Health Center is Stanford’s primary resource for all things relating to students' physical and mental well-being. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Well-Being at Stanford Stanford Red Folder Confidential Support Team (CST) Trans Resources at Stanford Financial Resources The Financial Aid Office administers several Stanford Support Programs, including grants and loans to help with emergency financial situations. Mind Over Monay also supports students' financial learning. Learn More About FAO Explore Mind Over Money Office of Accessible Education (OAE) OAE provides a wide array of support services, accommodations, and programs for students with disabilities to remove barriers to full participation in the life of the University. Learn More About OAE Ombuds* The Ombuds is a confidential resource available to all faculty, staff, postdocs, students or other members of the Stanford community. There is a separate Ombuds Office for the School of Medicine. Stanford’s Ombuds Office School of Medicine Ombuds Sexual Assault Support & Resources If you have experienced any form of sexual or relationship violence, there are people here to support you. Confidential counseling, emergency response, and medical support are available to assist you 24 hours a day. Learn More About Sexual Assault Support & Resources Stanford Learning Lab The Stanford Learning Lab offers learning strategies for graduate students with learning differences (dyslexia, ADHD or other learning disabilities) or suspected learner variability. Learn More About Stanford Learning Lab Office of Religious and Spiritual Life (ORSL)* ORSL represents multi-faith traditions and provides individualized support regardless of one’s religious or spiritual background. Learn more about ORSL Undocumented at Stanford Stanford's mission is to provide undocumented and DACAmented students with an equitable education that meets their specific needs and to continue dialogues of community between students, faculty, and staff. Learn More about Resources for Undocumented Students About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints