Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education COVID-19 INFO FOR STUDENTS Search form Search Navigation menu Academic Guidance Overview Advising & Mentoring Policies & Planning Problem Solving & Crisis Intervention Faculty Advisory Committee Student & Postdoc Vision Team Diversity Initiatives Overview Programs & Funding Recruitment Awards Professional Development Overview Programs & Funding Grad Grow Career Planning Stanford Courses Interdisciplinary Learning Overview Stanford Graduate Summer Institute Networking & Learning Programs & Funding Stanford Courses Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows You are here Home » Fellowships & Funding Fellowships & Funding Overview Graduate Student Funding Funding for COVID-19 Delays Other Stanford Fellowships External Funding VPGE Fellowships VPGE Fellowship Policies VPGE Funding Opportunities Current VPGE Fellows Graduate Student Funding The cost of graduate study at Stanford and the resources available for financial support vary by degree, school, and enrollment status. Students are encouraged to plan ahead and anticipate their financial needs. Campus Offices and Resources Your Degree Program Many funding policies and resources are local, so seek out your student services staff, facuty advisor, or faculty director of graduate studies for help or advice first. Financial Aid Office Stanford's main Financial Aid Office (FAO) offers a broad overview of graduate student funding and generates a sample graduate student budget (or estimated “cost of attendance”). The FAO also administers loans and manages Stanford Support Programs such as the Emergency Grant-In-Aid Funds and the Graduate Family Grant Program. The Graduate School of Business, School of Medicine, and Stanford Law School have financial aid offices to serve students pursuing professional degrees. Read the Graduate Basics page Review the Student Budget Learn about Stanford Support Programs Office of the University Registrar The "Reg Office" posts annual tuition rates. Student Services Center The Student Services Center can help you understand and pay your bill and provides other student services. Mind Over Money The Mind Over Money program provides workshops. coaching, and extensive personal finance resources, including informatoon about taxes and saving for retirement, to support students' financial welness during their time at Stanford and beyond. Controller’s Office The Controller’s Office offers information about taxes, student employment, and travel reimbursement. Graduate Academic Policies and Procedures The GAP provides guidelines for graduate financial support, including definitions of typical funding sources and minimum salaries for research and teaching assistants. Read about graduate policies See current assistantship rates Related Links VPGE Fellowships & Funding Other Stanford Fellowships External Funding About VPGE Overview Our Mission Meet the Vice Provost History & Milestones Staff Contact Us Please submit this form to let us know about any website issues. Quick Links Calendar Programs Recent News Partners New Students Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Bookmarks Graduate Academic Policies Graduate Admissions Graduate Funding Graduate Life Office Office of the Registrar Connect Twitter YouTube Flickr SU Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Emergency Info © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Copyright Complaints