Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Office of the Provost | HARVARD.EDU Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs Search HOME Services Contact us if… Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) and Other Agreements Locations Abroad Provost's Review University Committee on International Projects and Sites (UCIPS) "One Harvard, One World" Brochure Events Worldwide Week Harvard Abroad Harvard Worldwide Our Team Resources Resources for Our Community Members Affected by the War in Ukraine COVID-19 Updates Information from Harvard University about the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic: https://www.harvard.edu/coronavirus "Reaffirming Our Commitments" Read the message to the Harvard community from University Leadership, 30 October 2020. Letter to President-elect Biden ... from Harvard President Larry S. Bacow, 11 December 2020. The mission of the Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs is to support and encourage the work of Harvard students and faculty, bringing Harvard to the world and the world to Harvard. To accomplish this mission, the Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs: Promotes global engagement at Harvard by… Negotiating agreements with international partners to: Provide new teaching and research opportunities for Harvard faculty and students Bring new international students, faculty, and postdoctoral fellows to Harvard Supporting the work of Harvard’s global research centers and offices abroad Managing international activities that span multiple Harvard Schools Hosting events to showcase Harvard’s global work, such as Worldwide Week and Harvard Abroad; and publishing materials on Harvard’s international activities Making public presentations about Harvard’s global work Meeting with Harvard alumni worldwide hosting visiting delegations Oversees Harvard’s global engagement by… Ensuring that Harvard’s global activities are consistent with the University’s teaching and research missions, and with University policies Managing the University Committee on International Projects and Sites Reviewing international research proposals, via Provost’s Review Reviewing international centers, in collaboration with other Harvard administrative offices Join us on Twitter! Harvard “The issues we navigate as a society will only intensify. The disinformation will only increase. The pull into the comfort of our tribes will be magnified. But we have it within us to ensure that this doesn’t mean we fracture.” t.co/YikzrwTKdk 5 days 17 hours ago. AAPH_Africa In the Harnessing digital technologies to improve adolescent health in Tanga, Tanzania project, we equip adolescents with knowledge on proper nutrition and physical activities to promote their health and wellbeing. @HarvardChanSPH @aaph_africa #AAPH_Africa t.co/GAEaZ8qKhP 1 week 1 day ago. HarvardWCFIA ICYMI: Check out our last Weatherhead Forum of the year, Representation and Accountability under Weakly Institutionalized Party Systems: Perspectives from India and Peru. Excellent talks by @goyal_tanushree & @WeaverJulieA: t.co/M9lQ6fz6wf 2 weeks 6 days ago. HarvardClubVic Hear from Harvard alumni in Ukraine together w special guest Kevin Rudd, Asia Society President and CEO and the former PM of Australia Register via this link: t.co/Q7N1iNG5CO @apatrickafr @p_hannam @globalharvard @harvardclubfr @HarvardClubRM @HarvardLux @HarvardGlobalWE t.co/JovCtvUJPc 3 weeks 6 days ago. AAPH_Africa AAPH's impact is not in isolation, rather a part of a global concern for public health improvement in multiple fronts. Our association with the HSPH @HarvardChanSPH is key to achieving this. #AAPH_Africa t.co/bUKIOkS2X1 1 month 5 days ago. Follow us on twitter Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement