Skip Navigation Units Quicklinks/Search Division Units Through its units, the Division of Research delivers strategic support to further Texas A&M University’s research mission. Conflict of Interest / Responsible Conduct of Research Research Administration Research Communications and Public Relations Research Compliance and Biosafety Research Development Services Research Enterprise Business Services Sponsored Research Services Search Search Search Submit Search Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Texas A&M University Division of Research Toggle Main Menu Find Funding Proposal Support Award Management Research Resources Events & Workshops About the Division Research Guidance during COVID-19 Home About the Division University Research Council The University Research Council (URC) provides advice and assistance to the Vice President for Research on the development of research, research planning, and research policy. The URC reports to the Vice President for Research. The URC is an advisory body that may consider any matter of policy and procedures regarding university research. The Council may make recommendations on the manner by which research is initiated and conducted in support of the primary teaching function of the university. Members include the research deans from each college and Division of Research senior administrators. URC Members Dr. Hubert Amrein Professor, Executive Associate Dean Department of Molecular and Cellular Medicine College of Medicine Dr. Hassan Bazzi Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Chemistry, Office of the Dean Texas A&M Qatar Dr. Jane L. Bolin Professor, Associate Dean for Research College of Nursing Dr. Mike Criscitiello Professor, Interim Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Office of the Dean College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences Dr. Darren DePoy Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Physics and Astronomy College of Science Dr. Maria C. Escobar-Lemmon Professor, Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies College of Liberal Arts Dr. Henry Fadamiro Associate Director and Chief Scientific Officer Texas A&M AgriLife Research Dr. Duane Ireland Distinguished Professor, Acting Dean Department of Management, Office of the Dean Mays Business School Dr. Mansoor Khan Professor, Vice Dean of College Station Campus Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy Dr. Jeffrey Liew Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Educational Psychology, Office of the Dean College of Education and Human Development Dr. Ann McNamara Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Visualization, Office of the Dean College of Architecture Ms. Huyen Pham, J.D. Professor and Associate Dean for Research School of Law Dr. Antonietta Quigg Professor, Senior Associate Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies Department of Marine Biology, Department of Oceanography Texas A&M University at Galveston Dr. Tiffany Radcliff Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Health Policy and Management School of Public Health Ms. Paula Sullenger Associate Dean for Information Resources University Libraries Dr. Kathy Svoboda Regents Professor, Interim Associate Dean for Research Department of Biomedical Sciences, Office of the Dean College of Dentistry Dr. Arnold Vedlitz Professor Department of Public Service and Administration The Bush School of Government and Public Service Dr. Ping Yang Distinguished Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Meteorology, Office of the Dean College of Geosciences Dr. Jack Baldauf Interim Vice President for Research Division of Research Dr. Gerianne Alexander Professor, Associate Vice President for Research Department of Psychology Division of Research Dr. Joe A. Arosh Associate Professor Chair, Faculty Senate Research Committee Department of Veterinary Integrative Biosciences College of Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences Dr. Debjyoti Banerjee (CPI Liaison) Professor Department of Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering Dr. Karen L. Butler-Purry Professor, Associate Provost and Dean Graduate and Professional School Dr. Prabhakar Pagilla Professor, Associate Dean for Research Department of Mechanical Engineering, Office of the Dean College of Engineering Dr. Joe Elabd Acting Vice Chancellor for Research The Texas A&M University System Dr. Allison Ficht Regents Professor, Senior Associate Vice President for Research Department of Molecular and Cellular Medicine Division of Research Mr. Matt Fry, J.D. Assistant Vice President for Research Division of Research Dr. Costas Georghiades Professor, Senior Associate Vice President for Research Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Division of Research Dr. Candice Jongsma Director, Multidisciplinary Project Development Research Development Services, Division of Research Dr. Jim Joyce Associate Executive Director Division of Research Dr. Jorja Kimball Executive Director of Sponsored Research Services Research Development Services, Division of Research Dr. Dimitris C. Lagoudas Deputy Director Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station Dr. Jon Mogford Senior Vice President and CEO Texas A&M Health Dr. Ken Ramos Professor and Executive Director Institute of Biosciences and Technology Dr. Penny Riggs Associate Vice President for Research Division of Research Ms. Katherine Rojo del Busto, J.D. Associate Vice President for Research Research Compliance Officer Division of Research Ms. Annette Shenkir Associate Vice President for Research Division of Research Dr. Mark J. Zoran Professor, Executive Associate Dean College of Science About the Division Vice President for Research Fact Sheets Staff Directory Expand Staff Directory section Office of the Vice President for Research Comparative Medicine Program Conflict of Interest and Responsible Conduct of Research Global Health Research Complex Hagler Institute for Advanced Study High Performance Research Computing Interdisciplinary Life Sciences Building International Ocean Discovery Program Microscopy and Imaging Center Institute for Neuroscience Institute For Quantum Science & Engineering Research Administration Research Communications Research Compliance and Biosafety Research Development Services Research Enterprise Business Services Texas A&M Energy Institute Texas A&M Institute of Data Science Texas A&M Institute for a Disaster Resilient Texas Texas A&M Institute for Genome Sciences and Society Texas A&M Sponsored Research Services Texas Sea Grant College Program Council of Principal Investigators University Research Council Research@Texas A&M Research@Texas A&M … the magazine Research Rankings Research in the Colleges Texas A&M University Branding Guide Aggie Research Scholars Program/Research Leadership Program Graduate and Professional School LAUNCH / Undergraduate Research Student Research Week Research Misconduct Texas A&M University Division of Research 1112 TAMU College Station, TX, 77843 View us on Flickr View us on YouTube Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Articles, photos, and videos about research projects from the Texas A&M research enterprise on a single website > Our Commitment to Diversity The Division of Research values diversity as indispensable to academic excellence and welcomes a wide range of thought, background, ethnicity, and perspective. Diversity at Texas A&M > State of Texas Compact with Texans State Link Policy Statewide Search Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy