Skip Navigation Units Quicklinks/Search Division Units Through its units, the Division of Research delivers strategic support to further Texas A&M University’s research mission. Conflict of Interest / Responsible Conduct of Research Research Administration Research Communications and Public Relations Research Compliance and Biosafety Research Development Services Research Enterprise Business Services Sponsored Research Services Search Search Search Submit Search Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Texas A&M University Division of Research Toggle Main Menu Find Funding Proposal Support Award Management Research Resources Events & Workshops About the Division Research Guidance during COVID-19 Home Find Funding Texas A&M researchers can pursue external research funding from a variety of sources—state and federal government agencies, non-profit organizations, and corporations. Texas A&M provides internal grants to inspire interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary collaborations on groundbreaking research. The university also uses funding to encourage partnerships with clinical affiliates. External Funding The A&M Research Community has several resources available that list or allow for searching by keyword or research area for federal and other funding opportunities that are external to the university. National Institutes of Health National Science Foundation Health & Human Services U.S. Department of Energy Limited Submission Opportunities FedBizOpps.gov Graduate and Professional Studies Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas (CPRIT) Dimensions Federal Register ORAU Faculty and Student Programs Federal Programs Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency Fulbright Program Health & Human Services National Aeronautics and Space Administration National Endowment for the Arts National Endowment for the Humanities National Institutes of Health NIH Parent Announcements National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Individual NOAA Offices National Science Foundation Office of Naval Research U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research U.S. Army Research Office U.S. Department of Agriculture U.S. Department of Education U.S. Department of Energy DOE - Office of Science DOE - National Energy Technology Lab DOE - Office of Nuclear Energy DOE - Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy DOE - Advanced Research Projects Agency U.S. Department of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Funding Databases Pivot Funding Opportunities Pivot Profiles Pivot Login page Foundation Directory Funding Opportunities for Jr. Faculty Grants.gov NSF Find Funding Private Foundations American Cancer Society American Heart Association Howard G. Buffet Foundation Institute of International Education McKnight Foundation Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Norman Borlaug Foundation Qatar Foundation Research Valley Partnership, Inc. Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Rolling Plains Quail Research Ranch Texas Rice Research Foundation Welch Foundation Arts & Humanities Fellows Induction as an Arts & Humanities Fellow recognizes extraordinary scholarship and creativity and provides faculty a supportive environment through which to advance their scholarship and creative work and reward's scholarly and artistic merit in their chosen discipline. About the program Arts & Humanities Fellows Application Arts & Humanities Fellows Videos International Programs The division supports international collaborations between Texas A&M faculty and researchers at international institutions. The division has facilitated agreements to offer funding opportunities to A&M faculty that support collaborations involving international research partnerships. Texas A&M-CONACYT Texas A&M and the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) began the Collaborative Research Grant Program in 2001. This competitive, peer-reviewed program advances inter-institutional cooperation in science, technology, and scholarly activities through the complementary efforts of scientists and scholars from Texas A&M and Mexican institutions. Texas A&M-FAPESP An agreement between Texas A&M and the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP) for research to implement scientific and technological cooperation through the funding of joint research projects between Texas A&M researchers and researchers from the State of São Paulo, Brazil. Additional Programs Texas A&M is committed to helping faculty advance their research portfolio across all disciplines. These programs are designed to support the generation of preliminary data, pursue new directions or collaborations, or boost an existing collaboration toward a major proposal submission. T3: Texas A&M Triads for Transformation T3 is a multidisciplinary seed-grant program designed to further Texas A&M's commitments to the three pillars of advancing transformational learning; enhancing discovery and innovation; and expanding impact on our community, state, nation, and world. X-Grants X-Grants is an interdisciplinary program designed to bring faculty together across disciplines. The program’s goal is to unlock creative and imaginative ideas that will address important problems in areas that will significantly impact the most important challenges facing global society. Presidential Clinical Research Partnership (PCRP) Grants PCRP supports the development of long-term partnerships between Texas A&M and our clinical affiliates and partners leading to the highest level of health for all Texans. Research Development Fund The Research Development Fund (RDF) is utilized for strategic investments that support the total Texas A&M research enterprise and catalyze new ventures. This fund will support research across those administrative units participating in the fund. Panther RISE Grant Program (PRISE) The Panther RISE Grant Program (PRISE) is an agreement between Texas A&M Prairie View University and Texas A&M University to establish productive research and scholarly collaborations to better position themselves to pursue multidisciplinary research and innovation projects. The PRISE program is open to tenured/tenure-track faculty members from all disciplines. Funding Newsletters Limited Submission The Limited Submission Program (LSP) is open to all Texas A&M University faculty and principal investigators who meet the eligibility requirements. Multidisciplinary Funding Opportunities This Bi-Weekly Funding Opportunities Newsletter highlights a selection of multi-investigator external funding opportunities. Texas A&M University Division of Research 1112 TAMU College Station, TX, 77843 View us on Flickr View us on YouTube Quicklinks Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Research Rankings Research Titles and Staffing Sitemap Articles, photos, and videos about research projects from the Texas A&M research enterprise on a single website > Our Commitment to Diversity The Division of Research values diversity as indispensable to academic excellence and welcomes a wide range of thought, background, ethnicity, and perspective. Diversity at Texas A&M > State of Texas Compact with Texans State Link Policy Statewide Search Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy