Skip to content → Office of the Vice Provost for Research open menu About Funding Research Policies & Compliance Education & Training Search Sidebar open sidebar Search Recent Posts Summer Stipends 2023, National Endowment for the Humanities (LSO) Greenwall Faculty Scholars Program in Bioethics, 2023 (LSO) Searle Scholars, 2023 (LSO) Rita Allen Foundation Scholars, 2023 (LSO) NSF Research Traineeship Program, NSF 21-536 (LSO) Recent Comments RSS Test Homepage Office of the Vice Provost for Research Encouraging, cultivating, and coordinating high-impact academic research across Harvard’s schools and affiliated institutions Funding Research Policies & Compliance Education & Training Updated Guidance on Russia-Related Sanctions In response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. government imposed severe financial sanctions and export restrictions on Russia and individuals and entities supporting the Russian government in Russia, Belarus, and certain separatist regions of Ukraine. These restrictions are likely to change and may affect current or future University collaborations, agreements, and research projects. OVPR is closely monitoring the situation and its potential impacts on University research. Contact OVPR for assistance in determining impacts to your research, collaborations, shipments, payments, travel, and other Harvard-related activities. Guidance document found here Featured Strategic Initiative: Landmark Bio, PBLLC Spearheaded by the OVPR, Landmark Bio, PBLLC is a public benefit limited liability company that was formed to advance the development of transformative new medicines by translating today’s cutting-edge research into tomorrow’s breakthrough therapies. With construction starting on the new 40,000 square-foot biomanufacturing facility at The Arsenal on the Charles in Watertown, MA, Landmark Bio plans to begin opening at the start of 2022. The initial focus of the facility will include cell and gene therapy, gene editing, and mRNA products, which offer the potential to treat or even cure diseases such as cancer, diabetes, Parkinson’s, and Alzheimer’s, among others. Learn more about Featured Strategic Initiative: CABIM Alert: Fraudulent Student Research Surveys See notice here Founder WordPress Theme by Compete Themes. Skip to toolbar Log In About WordPress About WordPress WordPress.org Documentation Support Feedback Search Office of the Vice Provost for Research The Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, Suite 836 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 617-384-9451 Contact Us Privacy Policy | EU/EEA Privacy Disclosures | Trademark Notice | Digital Accessibility Policy | Harvard Home | Provost Home Admin Login