Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Campus Life / Housing / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life Discover Blacksburg Current page: Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research ready1 Housing Housing at Virginia Tech offers more than just a place to sleep: It’s an on-campus experience enriched by initiatives, inclusion, and engagement. The 47 on-campus residence halls are home to about 9,300 students and are kept safe, clean, and well-maintained by Virginia Tech’s Housing and Residence Life. Want to see more? Check out some 360-degree photos of our rooms. Your room is just the beginning of your on-campus experience. Common spaces for studying and social gatherings, community kitchens, and outdoor amenities, such as volleyball courts, provide fun and creative places to see old friends and make new ones. Finding your place If you’re a first-year student, you are guaranteed university housing and required to live in the residence halls unless you are a transfer student or an exception is approved. Are you a graduate student or a professional? We offer private and convenient on-campus options at the Graduate Life Center at Donaldson Brown and a wide variety of off-campus options. Let us know how we can help find you the perfect place that fits your lifestyle. Laundry All residence halls have laundry rooms that have been equipped with Laundry Web. Laundry Web won’t fold your clean clothes or iron your shirts, but it can reserve a washer or dryer that you want to use, tell you how many machines are in use, or send you a text when your laundry is done. Living-Learning Programs Virginia Tech is also home to 15 living-learning programs, each of which weaves together what you study, where you live, and who you live with to provide a unique experience that challenges traditional expectations of campus life. Wherever you live during your time at Virginia Tech, you’ll find a community that enriches your life and learning as a Hokie. We can’t wait to welcome you. Learn more Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok