Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / University Status / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Current page: University Status Research ready1 University Status Virginia Tech's Ready page Visit the Ready site Resources: Authorized Closings and Inclement Weather Road conditions in Virginia National Weather Service, Blacksburg office Campus winter weather traffic and parking emergency procedures Blacksburg Transit information Campus operations Blacksburg University offices are operating on a normal schedule. Greater Washington, D.C. metro area Offices and locations are operating on a normal schedule. Roanoke All campus locations are operating on normal schedules today. Additional locations The Reynolds Homestead is operating on a normal schedule. The Steger Center in Switzerland is operating on a normal schedule. Richmond The Virginia Tech Richmond Center is operating on a normal schedule. Hampton Roads The Newport News and Virginia Beach centers are operating on normal schedules. Abingdon The Virginia Tech Southwest Center is operating on a normal schedule. Agricultural Research and Extension Centers See updates on cooperative extension operations VT Alerts When a situation arises in which the university determines that immediate action is required, a campus-wide VT Alert is issued. VT Alerts allow students, faculty, and staff who subscribe to the system to receive urgent notifications by a phone message, text message, and/or desktop alert. In addition to the subscription methods listed above, VT Alerts are also shared via: This webpage www.vt.edu Twitter @vtalerts Broadcast emails to all vt.edu accounts Electronic message boards in classrooms and common spaces The weather/emergency hotline (540-231-6668) Official messages during emergencies and other incidents will come from the following social media accounts: Virginia Tech Twitter: twitter.com/virginia_tech Instagram (stories): instagram.com/virginia.tech Facebook: facebook.com/virginiatech VT Alerts Twitter: twitter.com/vtalerts Virginia Tech Police Twitter: twitter.com/vatechpolice Facebook: facebook.com/VirginiaTechPolice Virginia Tech Emergency Management Twitter: twitter.com/behokieready Facebook: facebook.com/BeHokieReady In situations that occur that do not require immediate action the information may be relayed to the campus community via this webpage, email, on the Virginia Tech website, and through official Virginia Tech social media channels (see list above). Note: As a public service, information will be sent to local media outlets as needed, such as in the case of an authorized closing or delayed opening during inclement weather; however, Virginia Tech is not responsible for inaccurate reporting of information on local media outlets. About this page The safety of the our community is the top priority of Virginia Tech. In times of inclement weather or other situations, it may be necessary for the university to close or delay the opening the Blacksburg campus or other university locations across the state. Decisions to alter the university’s normal schedule or operations are made with considerable consultation from many university units and off campus agencies. As decisions are made, the university will communicate them to students, faculty, staff, and others immediately using VT Alerts, the university homepage, this status page, and on official social media channels. Depending on the nature of an event that affects university operations, Virginia Tech will strive to provide students, faculty, and staff a clear timeline for decisions to assist in planning and when to expect future decisions and/or updates. Police Department Emergency 911 Non-Emergency 540-382-4343 Online Report Form General Information 540-231-6411 Safe Ride 540-231-7233 (SAFE) Website police.vt.edu Follow Facebook Twitter Emergency Management Phone 540-231-4873 Email oem@vt.edu Website emergency.vt.edu Follow Facebook Twitter Environmental Health and Safety Emergency 911 Non-Emergency 540-231-3600 Website ehss.vt.edu Threat Assessment Team Phone 540-382-4343 Email threatassessment@vt.edu Website threatassessment.vt.edu Rescue Squad Emergency 911 Non-emergency 540-231-7138 Email vtrescue-g@vt.edu Website rescue.vt.edu Follow Facebook Cook Counseling Center Phone Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 540-231-6557 After hours/weekends 540-231-6557 Suicide prevention 540-231-6557 Website ucc.vt.edu Dean of Students Office Phone Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 540-231-3787 After hours/weekends Call Virginia Tech Police service center, 540-231-6411, press 1 and request the Dean of Students on-call administrator Website dos.vt.edu Schiffert Health Center Phone Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 540-231-5313 After hours/weekends 540-231-6444 Website healthcenter.vt.edu Facilities Services Technicians are available on most shifts to respond to emergency calls until midnight Monday through Friday and from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. Phone Monday-Friday, 7:30 a.m.-5 p.m. 540-231-4300 After hours emergency 540-382-4343 (via Virginia Tech Police) Website facilities.vt.edu Women's Center at Virginia Tech Phone 540-231-7806 24-hour crisis hotline Operated by the Women's Resource Center of the New River Valley 540-639-1123 Website womenscenter.vt.edu Live campus weather View live video, weather data, and forecasts from Virginia Tech's WeatherSTEM units below. Learn more about WeatherSTEM at Virginia Tech. Dining Center Operation Hours Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok