Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Engagement and Outreach / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life InclusiveVT Current page: Engagement and Outreach Research ready1 Engagement and Outreach Adopted in 1896, the university motto, Ut Prosim (That I May Serve), has long pointed to true north for Hokies. Hokies leave Virginia Tech with far more than an academic degree. Students and alumni embrace service as a way of life: They engage with others in the community, knowing that global leaders and valuable citizens must serve others in their daily lives. Service has become Virginia Tech’s most important tradition. Global outreach, local impact Virginia Tech's Outreach and International Affairs supports the university’s engagement mission by creating community partnerships and projects, offering professional development programs and technical assistance, and building collaborations to enrich discovery and learning — all with the overarching goal of improving the quality of life for people within the commonwealth and throughout the world. Muni Muniappan examines a tomato leaf in Ethiopia, using a loupe, or hand lens. Outreach and International Affairs guides Virginia Tech’s global presence; its regional research and professional development and development centers across the commonwealth focus on graduate education and professional development. Blacksburg-based centers are dedicated to engagement, language, culture, and economic development. Learn More VT Engage VT Engage is a university center in Student Affairs that seeks to equip students to serve as change agents who make the world more equitable and just through their commitment to community and civic engagement. We partner with organizations to create community-driven service experiences that prioritize learning and prepare students to develop their leadership capacities. Our vision is a just world. In pursuit of social justice, our mission is to strengthen communities while advancing community-engaged leadership. Students will experience and develop their understanding of Ut Prosim (That I May Serve) in thoughtful collaboration with stakeholders. Learn More Virginia Cooperative Extension Virginia Cooperative Extension brings the resources of Virginia's land-grant universities, Virginia Tech and Virginia State University, to the people of the commonwealth. Understanding that knowledge is power, we place that power in the hands of Virginians and help them learn how to use it to improve the quality of their lives. Our Extension agents and specialists form a network of educators whose classrooms are the communities, homes, and businesses of Virginia, where they bring research-based solutions to the problems facing Virginians today. learn more Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok