Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Campus Life / Health and Wellness / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Current page: Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research ready1 Health and Wellness Come find a community and entire departments dedicated to helping you thrive in mind, body, and spirit during your time at Virginia Tech. Virginia Tech is committed to the well-being of every member of our campus community, especially students. Sick? Injured? Need an immunization? Schiffert Health Center on campus is here for you. Need help working through a tough issue or event? Cook Counseling Center has mental health professionals experienced with helping students with depression, anxiety, relationship problems, loneliness, or substance abuse. Almost all services provided by Schiffert Health Center and Cook Counseling Center are covered in the student health fee you’ll pay with tuition. Are you a graduate student? Graduate students are encouraged to purchase medical insurance for themselves and their families, and the Graduate School is there to help navigate the options. If you are differently abled, our Services for Students with Disabilities works closely with our academic departments to ensure that all Hokies have an amazing time at Virginia Tech, providing accommodations, services, and resources for students with disabilities and temporary injuries or illness. Maybe you’re looking to get a little healthier while you’re here. Hokie Wellness has a variety of opportunities, including peer-led workshops on topics like sleeping better, managing nutrition, pursuing sexual health, and navigating issues posed by alcohol and other drugs. Did you know Virginia Tech has been rated the Fittest College in America? Our Recreational Sports Department is a major part of that achievement. With 39 intramural sports, on-campus gyms and aquatic centers, and more than 100 group exercises classes taught each week, Hokies have plenty of options when it comes to breaking a sweat and building body and mind. We’re here for you. Learn more Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok