Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Maps and Directions / Directions to Virginia Tech / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Maps and Directions Current page: Directions to Virginia Tech ready1 Directions to Virginia Tech The main Virginia Tech campus is located in Blacksburg, Virginia, about 40 miles southwest of Roanoke, Virginia. Use 925 Prices Fork Road or the intersection of University City Boulevard and Prices Fork Road, Blacksburg, VA 24060 as a destination for online routing and mapping software and GPS devices. This is the location of the Visitor and Undergraduate Admissions Center. To determine if you need a permit, where to get one, how and where to use it, and other parking-related information, see the visit page. If you need more details, visit the Virginia Tech's Transportation and Parking web page. If you're coming by car To check traffic conditions, construction, and potential delays or weather problems, see the Virginia 511 website, or call 511 on your phone. To reach the campus from Interstate 81 (southbound and northbound): Take Exit 118 to reach the exit ramps for all three of the exits at this location. There is only one exit ramp serving the exits; missing the ramp means a trip north to Exit 128 or south to Exit 114 to turn around. Take Exit 118B onto U.S. 460 West. This exit connects directly to the Christiansburg Bypass. Follow the signs for Blacksburg/Virginia Tech. The U.S. 460 bypass between Blacksburg and Christiansburg is a limited-access highway from I-81 to the campus entrance. To reach the Visitor and Undergraduate Admissions Center, continue on U.S. 460 for 8.5 miles to the Prices Fork Road exit for "Downtown." Turn right at the first traffic light on Prices Fork Road. Take an immediate right into the Visitor and Undergraduate Admissions Center. To reach downtown Blacksburg, continue on Price's Fork Road until it ends at the roundabout at North Main Street. Get in the right lane and bear right onto Main Street to reach downtown proper. To reach the campus from Interstate 77 (northbound): Take exit 32 onto I-81 North. Continue for about 36 miles to Exit 118. There is only one exit ramp serving multiple exits; missing the ramp means a trip north to Exit 128 to turn around. Take Exit 118B onto U.S. 460 West, then follow the directions above. To reach the campus from Interstate 77/West Virginia Turnpike (southbound): In West Virginia, take Exit 9, "U.S. 460-Princeton/Pearisburg, VA." Turn left at the stoplight at the end of the ramp onto U.S. 460 East. Continue on U.S. 460 East for about 44.9 miles (11.6 in W.Va., 33.3 in Virginia). Take the Toms Creek Road exit. Turn left onto Toms Creek Road. Turn right onto University City Boulevard at the first traffic light. Continue on University City Boulevard for about 1.2 miles until reaching the Prices Fork intersection (fourth light on University City Boulevard). Go straight at the light. To reach downtown Blacksburg, turn left on Prices Fork Road. Follow it until it ends at the roundabout at North Main Street. Get in the right land and bear right onto Main Street to reach downtown proper. If you're coming by plane Roanoke-Blacksburg Regional Airport in Roanoke, Va., is served by major domestic airlines. The Smart Way Bus offers regularly scheduled service between the airport and Squires Student Center in Blacksburg. Roanoke Airport Limousine Service provide transportation between the airport and campus. Private planes may land at the Virginia Tech/Montgomery Executive Airport adjacent to campus (telephone: (540) 231-4444). If you're coming by train or bus Train: Amtrak passes through Virginia and West Virginia on several routes. Amtrak's Northeast Regional service was extended and now stops in Roanoke. Add a ticket on the Smart Way bus when booking with Amtrak to get from Roanoke to Blacksburg. Lynchburg is a stop for the Crescent and Northeast Regional service. Charlottesville, Staunton, and Clifton Forge, plus stations in southern West Virginia (White Sulfur Springs, Alderson, and Hinton) are all stops for the Cardinal. Another station is located in Danville, in addition to Union Station in Washington, D.C. Bus: Greyhound Bus Lines serves the Blacksburg area via a stop in Roanoke at the Campbell Court bus station downtown. The Smart Way Bus offers regularly scheduled service between Campbell Court and Squires Student Center in Blacksburg. Greyhound also stops in Wytheville (service to Christiansburg and Pulaski has been discontinued). How Far is Virginia Tech From ... Driving distances from regional metropolitan areas.* Washington D.C.: 4 hours Richmond: 4 hours Virginia Beach: 5.5 hours Pittsburgh: 5.5 hours Philadelphia: 5.5 hours Charlotte: 3 hours Raleigh: 4 hours New York City: 9 hours Atlanta: 6 hours Nashville: 7 hours Newark: 8 hours Charleston, W.Va.: 2.5 hours * Approximate. Actual travel times may vary depending on traffic, road conditions, and weather. Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok