Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Campus Life / Dining / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life Discover Blacksburg Housing Current page: Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research ready1 Dining With 47 different venues in 11 locations, Virginia Tech’s dining program is consistently ranked atop the nation’s best campus dining experiences. From Chick-fil-A at Hokie Grill to freshly carved London broil at West End Market, students have the flexibility to eat traditional burgers and fries one day, and then Asian and Latin-inspired meals before the week is out. Two food trucks with delicious fare can also been seen roving through campus. Check out all of your dining options on campus! Have a specific dietary need? We’ve got that covered too. Learn more about our accommodations for special diets and food allergies. Dining plans How much of the most delicious campus food in the country will you be eating during your time here? Well, that’s entirely up to you. Take advantage of our Flex Plans, which are designed to provide maximum flexibility for dining on campus. Plans do not provide a fixed number of meals per week, like some universities, but instead offer a balance for you to spend like a debit account. Find the perfect dining plan Sustainability Dining Services is a leader in university food service and in sustainable practices. With locally and sustainably sourced foods, waste reduction through composting, and the reusable to-go containers, Virginia Tech is committed to reducing our carbon footprint while serving great food. Employment Dining Services is the biggest employer on campus, hiring hundreds of seasonal workers every year and maintaining a staff of thousands. Students who choose to work for Dining Services experience a great work environment with competitive pay and opportunities for advancement. Wage and salary positions within the department are the driving force behind our progressive services and the continuation of our award-winning dining program. See employment opportunities with Dining Services Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok