Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets Menu Student Affairs / Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets About About Submenu Toggle Greetings from the Commandant Staff Biographies Contact Us A History of the Corps of Cadets Our Canine Ambassador The Flag Cadets Request the Color Guard Request the Obstacle Course Join Join Submenu Toggle Visit Scholarships Citizen-Leader Track FAQs Army ROTC Naval ROTC Air Force ROTC Corps Organizations Academics Academics Submenu Toggle The Maj Gen W. Thomas Rice Center for Leader Development Global Scholars Program Minor in Leadership Academic Resources Commandant's List Alumni Alumni Submenu Toggle Your Class Champions Hokie Heroes VTCCA Board of Directors Corps Review The Corps Museum Distinguished Alumni of the Corps Giving Giving Submenu Toggle Our Priorities Caldwell March Brick Plaques Band Band Submenu Toggle What It Takes Benefits and Financial Aid Our History Highty-Tighty Alumni Resources Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Student Affairs / Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets / Explore About Join Academics Alumni Giving Band Resources Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets Welcome Class of 2026 Cadets and Families - The New Cadet Quick Start Guide offers a few tasks and tips as you prepare to join the Virginia Tech Corps of Cadets. Read the Quick Start Guide ⭢ Join the Hokie Family Hub The Hokie Family Hub is our primary way of communicating with cadet families. Look for the New Cadet Families community. Sign up now Global, Ethical Leaders… Now, More than Ever We trace our history to the founding of Virginia Tech in 1872, but our experience is modern, agile, and unlike anything else offered on campus. We are a four-year, full-time leader development program focused on building teamwork, character, and problem-solving skills that make a difference in today's world. Cadets stand in formation. Visit the Corps of Cadets Learn to Lead Give to the Corps Leave Your Legacy with a Brick Plaque Choose Your Path In the Military-Leader Track, you will train to commission as a military officer after graduation. You will be eligible to earn national ROTC scholarships. In the Citizen-Leader Track, there is no military obligation. You will apply the leadership skills you’ve learned directly to your first job. A cadet sits in the cockpit of a plane. Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Naval ROTC Citizen-Leader Track Beyond the Classroom Are you looking for a challenge for your college experience? Are you interested in leadership development and lifelong camaraderie? A cadet fires Skipper. Corps Organizations Highty-Tighties Alumni and Friends Active and engaged alumni are an integral part of the Corps' success, whether they return to speak to cadets about their leadership experiences, volunteer for or attend Corps events, serve as Class Champions, or, most importantly, become a mentor to cadets. Boston College game Hokie Hero: U.S. Army Capt. William Chung ’15 is deployed to Afghani-stan. Hokie Heroes Corps Review Magazine Cadets in the News Article Item Robert E. Denton Jr., director of the School of Communication, to retire , article Date: 05/31/2022 Article Item Virginia Tech welcomes newest alumni during 2022 spring commencement ceremonies , article Date: 05/15/2022 Article Item Meet some members of the Class of 2022 , article Date: 05/12/2022 Corps Events Calendar Commandant's Office 141 Lane Hall (0213), 280 Alumni Mall, Blacksburg, VA 24061 corps@vt.edu | Front Desk: 540-231-6413 | Enrollment: 540-231-6858 | Alumni: 540-231-7431 Commandant's Facebook VTCC Instagram VTCC Twitter VTCC YouTube Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok