Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / About / Campus Locations / Explore Facts About Virginia Tech Current page: Campus Locations Virginia Tech Buildings University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Campus Locations With 250,000 living alumni and students who have come to Tech from every state and more than 100 countries, Virginia Tech is rooted in many places. Blacksburg Virginia Tech’s main campus in Blacksburg has 2,600 acres, 213 buildings, an airport, Lane Stadium, Cassell Coliseum, the Moss Arts Center, and an adjacent research park. As the university meets the global demands of the future, the Blacksburg campus is constantly adapting to fulfill learning and research needs. On one corner of the campus, a collection of buildings near the downtown area form the Creativity and Innovation District, which will unleash creativity, spark vision and innovation, and instill an entrepreneurial mindset to empower tomorrow’s leaders. On another part of campus, the Global Business and Analytics Complex will cement the university as a world leader in developing methods for analysis and interpretation, using data to address problems faced by industry and society. The complex will bring together students and faculty who share a passion for an analytic approach to problems in collaborative work environments for transdisciplinary research and hands-on learning. Virginia Tech’s Blacksburg campus may seem large at first. But ask any Hokie, and they’ll gladly share a memory from the Drillfield, the Duck Pond, Lane Stadium, or one of the other iconic landmarks — covered in Hokie Stone — that form this campus and serve as a home where you’re always welcome. See a list of all buildings on Virginia Tech's Blacksburg campus. See a campus map Roanoke The New River and Roanoke valleys are linked more tightly than ever thanks to collaborations among Virginia Tech, Carilion Clinic, and other partners. Roanoke is the home to the university’s ninth college, the Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine and the adjoining Fralin Biomedical Research Institute at VTC. Both are part of the VTC Health Sciences and Technology Campus in the Roanoke Innovation Corridor. The city is also home to Virginia Tech Roanoke Center, the Virginia Tech Center for Organizational and Technological Advancement, and the Hotel Roanoke & Conference Center, which is owned by the Virginia Tech Foundation. Northern Virginia With facilities, faculty, graduate degrees, and research in the region since 1969, Virginia Tech has a long history in the Washington, D.C., area. The university offers 45 graduate degree and certificate programs and has facilities in seven Northern Virginia locations. These include the Northern Virginia Center in Falls Church, the Marion duPont Scott Equine Medical Center in Leesburg, the Virginia Tech Research Center – Arlington and Advanced Research Institute in Arlington, Washington-Alexandria Architecture Center in Alexandria, the Language and Culture Institute in Fairfax, the Occoquan Watershed Monitoring Laboratory in Manassas, and the Middleburg Agricultural Research and Extension Center in Middleburg. In June 2019, Virginia Tech officials announced plans to build the university's innovation campus, National Gateway, in Alexandria. The campus’s strategic location, on 15 acres just south of the Four Mile Run stream that separates Alexandria and Arlington, positions Virginia Tech and its future partners near the nation’s capital, diverse industries, and leading tech companies, including Amazon and its HQ2 project. Across the commonwealth Virginia Tech also has facilities in and offers courses to residents of Abingdon, Richmond, Virginia Beach, and Newport News, where construction is underway on Tech Center Research Park, a fusion of the best of today’s research parks and innovation districts. Around the world The Steger Center for International Scholarship in Riva San Vitale, Switzerland, has been the university’s main international center since the early 1990s. Today, it continues to provide students a residential community base from which to learn about and experience the many cultures, economic systems, social milieus, and nationalities of Europe. Steger Center in Switzerland Far beyond Switzerland, Virginia Tech faculty members, researchers, and students can be found all around the world. The university’s Global Education Office facilitates study abroad for students, and Virginia Tech has joined a national effort, Generation Study Abroad, to increase the percentage of students who travel to other countries to learn. The Center for International Research, Education, and Development (CIRED) also supports Virginia Tech’s global mission by developing donor-funded international projects that draw on the university’s knowledge and raise standards of living in developing countries. CIRED provides opportunities for faculty and students to become engaged in research, teaching, and the development of solutions beyond the boundaries of the university, Virginia, and the nation. Agricultural Research and Extension Centers Agricultural Research and Extension Centers represent Virginia’s diversity and take advantage of the unique characteristics and challenges found in each location. These centers serve not only as key field research sites, but also as field laboratories for undergraduate and graduate students and field day program sites for producers, school groups, and other citizens. Loading player for https://video.vt.edu/media/0_nhgn2ma3... Alson H. Smith Jr. Eastern Shore Eastern Virginia Hampton Roads Middleburg Reynolds Homestead Shenandoah Valley Southern Piedmont Southwest Virginia Tidewater Virginia Seafood Ready to see Virginia Tech in person? Schedule your visit Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok