Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / About / Rankings / Explore Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Current page: Rankings Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Rankings Impact Rankings The Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings were created to measure universities against the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The assessment uses calibrated indicators to make comparison across three broad areas: research, outreach, and stewardship. Universities can be ranked in individual SDGs and receive an overall Impact Ranking. To be ranked overall the university must participate in at least 3 SDGs plus SDG 17. #98 Overall Impact Ranking #36 SDG2: Zero Hunger #201-300 SDG3: Good Health and Well-being #401-600 SDG4: Quality Education #201-300 SDG5: Gender Equality #66 SDG6: Clean Water and Sanitation #201-300 SDG7: Affordable & Clean Energy #301-400 SDG8: Decent Work and Economic Growth #67 SDG10: Reduced Inequalities #56 SDG11: Sustainable Cities and Communities #19 SDG12: Responsible Consumption and Production #59 SDG13: Climate Action #87 SDG 15: Life on Land #101-200 SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals See more information on Virginia Tech’s progress towards the SDGs. Global & National Rankings Virginia Tech is consistently recognized for its value and the quality of its programs. These rankings represent a few of the broader measures of excellence that the university garners. Virginia Tech Rankings Briefing (PDF) Global Rankings #201-300 Academic Rankings of World Universities (ARWU, Shanghai) #346 QS World University Rankings #251-300 Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings #250 US News and World Report Best Global Universities National Rankings #48 National Science Foundation (NSF) Total R&D Expenditure Rankings #73 QS USA Rankings #75 US News and World Report (USNWR) Best National Universities #104 Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (WSJ/THE) US College Rankings Top Ranked Subject Areas College of Agriculture and Life Sciences #101-150 Ag & Forestry (QS) #101-150 Earth & Marine Sciences (QS) #111 Plant and Animal Science (USNWR) College of Architecture and Urban Studies #51-100 Architecture (QS) #39 Public Affairs (USNWR) Pamplin College of Business #24 Hospitality Leisure Management (QS) #4 MIT (USNWR) #1 MIT Veteran (USNWR) #23 Business-Part-time MBA Program (USNWR) College of Engineering #101-150 Civil and Structural Engineering (QS) #93 Electrical Engineering (QS) #113 Engineering (QS) #81 Mechanical Engineering (QS) #25 Mineral and Mining Engineering (QS) #83 Computer Science (THE) #79 Engineering (THE) #84 Civil Engineering (USNWR) #109 Computer Science (USNWR) #55 Electrical and Electronic Engineering (USNWR) #30 Engineering (USNWR) #4 MIT (USNWR) #1 MIT Veteran (USNWR) College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences #113 Education (USNWR) College of Natural Resources and Environment #101-150 Ag & Forestry (QS) College of Science #101-150 Geology (QS) #101-150 Geophysics (QS) #51-100 Statistics and Operational Research (QS) #151 Geosciences (USNWR) Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine #51-60 Veterinary Science (QS) #89 Public Health (USNWR) Loading player for https://youtu.be/Zha3RD8mAn0... Times Higher Education Free Subscription Times Higher Education World University Rankings All Virginia Tech faculty and students have free access to Times Higher Education. With our institutional subscription, you can read online articles and digital editions and also download the app to your device to get the magazine wherever you are. Follow the instructions to set up your account. Remember to use your university email address when you register to enjoy all the benefits of the subscription. Read online To set up your Times Higher Education account, go to the THE homepage. Click the user account icon (i.e. the red person icon towards the top right). Follow the instructions on screen. Remember to use your university email address when you register. Click Join us. You will receive a confirmation email. Access digital editions To access digital editions of Times Higher Education, go to the THE homepage. Under the “Professional” tab, click “Digital Editions.” Select the issue you want to view. Download the app The Times Higher Education app is available on iOS, Android and Kindle Fire. Visit your app store provider to download it to your phone. Select the edition you would like to view. Log in by clicking on the icon in the top right corner. Select Account, then click “Existing THE account”. Enter your username and password. Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok