Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Campus Life / Discover Blacksburg / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life Current page: Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research ready1 Discover Blacksburg What’s it like to live in beautiful Blacksburg, Virginia? Situated on a plateau between the Blue Ridge and Allegheny mountains, Blacksburg is continually ranked as one of the best places in the United States to live. Home to about 42,600 residents and ample attractions, it’s a town that perpetually earns its good reputation. With abundant leisure activities, a reasonable cost of living, safety, moderate climate, and award-winning services, Blacksburg is known nationwide as a well-managed, forward-looking community. Founded in 1798, Blacksburg is rich in history and offers a vibrant culture. Resting in Montgomery County, Blacksburg has a delightful downtown, paved with wide red-brick sidewalks and lined with Victorian street lamps and park benches. Visit unique stores, art galleries, and eclectic restaurants as you explore. Strolling downtown not your thing? Don’t worry: There’s plenty to do outdoors. Outside magazine named Blacksburg as one of the top 10 places to live in the country because of its proximity to some of the best hiking, camping, rafting, golfing, climbing, and caving in the region. From the Appalachian Trail to the Washington-Jefferson National Forest, check out all that Blacksburg has to offer at Venture Out, Virginia Tech’s outdoor recreation program. Blacksburg at a glance Safe: The nationally accredited Virginia Tech Police Department operates 24 hours a day and provides full police service to the university community. Welcoming: Blacksburg residents gave the highest ratings to their town’s appearance, openness, and acceptance, as well as its many cultural opportunities, safety, and low crime rate in the National Citizens Survey. Connected: Award-winning Blacksburg Transit provides town-wide public transportation at a reasonable cost and a game-day shuttle for football and basketball games. Wired: As a high-tech, professional environment, Blacksburg is one of the most “wired” communities in America. Step into Blacksburg! Explore Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok