Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH Menu LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH About Us About Us Submenu Toggle Meet the Team LINK: Center for Advancing Industry Partners Big Ideas LICENSE: Center for Tech Commercialization LICENSE: Center for Tech Commercialization Submenu Toggle Faculty Inventor Spotlights LAUNCH: Center for New Ventures LAUNCH: Center for New Ventures Submenu Toggle Corporate Venture Arms Creating New Venture Opportunities Proof of Concept Grant Program Virginia Tech I-Corps Program Virginia Tech I-Corps Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties (VTIP) Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties (VTIP) Submenu Toggle Board of Directors Board of Directors Ex-Officio Resources for Inventors Resources for Alumni Resources for Alumni Submenu Toggle Industry Networks Alumni Corporate Networks Industry Leader Spotlights Mentoring Job Opportunities Alumni LinkedIn Group News & Events News & Events Submenu Toggle LICENSE + LAUNCH Office Hours Tech Transfer Boot Camp LAUNCH Startup Lab Contact Us Hokies at Work Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH / Explore About Us LINK: Center for Advancing Industry Partners Big Ideas LICENSE: Center for Tech Commercialization LAUNCH: Center for New Ventures Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties (VTIP) Resources for Inventors Resources for Alumni News & Events Contact Us Hokies at Work Home LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH LINK + LICENSE + LAUNCH A team dedicated to supporting all aspects of corporate partnerships from research collaborations, to corporate giving, to technology commercialization and start-ups. We are a one stop shop for industry from discovery to market. Northrop Grumman makes transformation gift to Virginia Tech to advance Quantum research and education. Northrop Grumman makes transformation gift to Virginia Tech to advance Quantum research and education. QUICK LINKS Resources for Companies EVENTS + OFFICE HOURS Resources for Inventors Invention Disclosure Form Resources for Alumni MEET OUR TEAM Together, our team ensures breakthroughs break through. LINK Center for Advancing Partnerships Serves as a gateway to the university to support holistic, strategic industry partnerships. We deliver market-driven sensibility and expertise. LICENSE Center for Technology Commercialization Streamlines the path to market through value added services and insight from IP capture, protection and transition strategies to business-friendly negotiation and licensing. LAUNCH Center for New Ventures Catalyzes start-up formation by working with faculty and graduates students to shape ideas and discoveries and identify key resources for start-up opportunities. VTIP Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties Serves the Hokie community to protect inventions and ensure intellectual property developed at Virginia Tech is transitioned to market where it can deliver societal benefit. Reimagining how work gets done The world of work is changing. Industries have reimagined the way work gets done and have been challenged to consider complex questions around productivity, collaboration, safety, and employee experience. Learn how Hokies are faring during this unique moment in work history as they share advice, stories, wins, and lessons learned during a disruptive time of work. Read their stories → FOCUS AREAS Say hello to Virginia Tech inventors who are changing the world. Corporate partners for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Driving impact through Big Ideas Pushing the boundaries of quantum sciences and engineering THE LATEST Article Item Toasting 150 years, Virginia Tech and Hardywood introduce new amber ale to the market , article Date: May 20, 2022 Article Item Class of 2022: Gwyneth Schloer tackles five degrees in five years , article Date: May 09, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech celebrates its inventors , article Date: Apr 19, 2022 Article Item Students to present research at the 9th annual National Security Education Program Colloquium , article Date: Apr 06, 2022 current page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Next Page 1 of 12 | 45 Results You're trying to change the world. So are we. Let's do it together. About LINK + LICENSE + LAUNCH Our team offers a full continuum of services to the Virginia Tech community and industry to help partnerships grow and flourish and ensure the discoveries made at the university deliver economic and human impact. We enable platforms and projects large and small. From delivering on the goals of Virginia Tech’s new Innovation Campus, to be located in Alexandria Virginia, to nurturing Virginia Tech start-ups, we offer a full suite of services under one team. Our three complementary centers help companies increase talent and research capabilities, commercialize ideas and discoveries, and create cycles of growth and opportunity to serve the VT community, commonwealth and beyond. LINK+LICENSE+LAUNCH Virginia Tech Holtzman Alumni Center 901 Prices Fork Road Blacksburg, VA 24061 540-231-1782 Contact Us LINK | Center for Advancing Partnerships LINK | Foundation Relations LICENSE | Center for Technology Commercialization LAUNCH | Center for New Ventures VTIP | Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties aluminate | Resources for Alumni Innovation Campus Advancement Research & Innovation People Events Resources Policies Forms Let's Get Connected (PDF) Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok