Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech®home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership Arts@VirginiaTech History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Programs Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Graduate School Admissions Cost & Aid Applying to Virginia Tech Visiting Virginia Tech First-Generation Students Black College Institute Tribal Initiatives Admissions Staff Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Referrals Online Programs Federal CARES Act Reporting Disclosure Site Map Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Visit Virginia Tech / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life InclusiveVT Engagement and Outreach Research Current page: Visit Virginia Tech ready1 Visit Virginia Tech See Virginia Tech for yourself. Plan to visit our Blacksburg campus, offices in the National Capital Region, or one of our campus centers around the commonwealth. Visit Undergraduate Admissions Schedule an in-person information session and campus tour, learn about upcoming events, get self-guided tour information, and more! College and Departmental Information Sessions Some colleges and departments are offering both in-person and virtual sessions at this time. Register here today! Request Undergraduate Information Prospective undergraduate students should fill out this form to receive additional information about the undergraduate admissions process and their major at Virginia Tech. Request Graduate School Information Prospective graduate students should fill out this form to receive additional information about the Graduate School and their program of choice. Parking Permit Information Visit the Parking Services website to get parking permit information for visitors to any of our regional locations. Visit Virginia Tech Virtually If you're not able to visit Virginia Tech in person, you can preview the experience on the Undergraduate Admissions Virtual VT Visit webpage. Visiting the Blacksburg, Virginia campus Virginia Tech's Blacksburg, VA campus Below are some suggested ways to get the most out of your time on campus and in Blacksburg. Looking for an opportunity to connect with Undergraduate Admissions? See opportunities for all of our visits by visiting the Undergraduate Admissions Visit webpage. Want a big event with information sessions about joining Hokie Nation as an undergraduate student? Check out our upcoming events here Want to know more about an undergraduate major? Check out a departmental information session. Want to explore a graduate degree program? Contact the department directly or work with the Graduate School. Find contact information by department or email grads@vt.edu for assistance. Want to add a little entertainment? Our university has a constant flow. Look for those on the Virginia Tech Calendar. We are an open campus so you are free to visit at any time! Be sure to check out the parking guidelines for visitors when you plan to come and for any questions related to COVID-19, please check out our VT Ready webpage. Investigate local hiking, biking, canoeing, and more, or take time for a leisurely drive on the Blue Ridge Parkway. Find ideas for filling your itinerary. Visit the community! Montgomery County offers many great opportunities for engagement. We have also highlighted a variety of popular and lesser-known attractions to see and enjoy around campus on your visit to Virginia Tech. Are you a high school or community based organization looking to bring a group of 10 or more prospective students to Virginia Tech? Check out our Group Visit webpage here to learn more about requesting a visit. Plan your Blacksburg visit Visiting the greater Washington, D.C., metro area offices Greater Washington, D.C., metro area offices of Virginia Tech Virginia Tech has facilities in seven localities in the greater D.C. area: Alexandria Innovation Campus Washington-Alexandria Architecture Center Arlington Research Center - Arlington Falls Church Full and part-time graduate programs offered at the Northern Virginia Center Leesburg Marion duPont Scott Equine Medical Center Manassas Occoquan Watershed Monitoring Laboratory Middleburg Middleburg Agricultural Research and Extension Center Washington, D.C. Fralin Biomedical Research Institute at Children's National Research and Innovation Campus Locations and Resources in the D.C. Area Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Principles of Community Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok