Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech® home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners X VTx logo Exponentially more Browse Categories Academics Campus Experience Culture Impact Research Videos Features News & Stories Magazine Notices Daily Doodle Tags Subscribe to daily email For the media Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok Search toggle Category: research The science of sport Rachel Baxter and Becca Mammel, both graduate students in the Department of Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise and members of the Virginia Tech track and field team, use data collected from their research to push athletic boundaries. By Max Esterhuizen 31 May 2022 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Rebecca Mammel, a Ph.D. student in the Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise program in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, is applying data gathered from her research to improve her performance as an athlete. Mammel is a thrower on Virginia Tech's Track and Field team. Photo by Ray Meese for Virginia Tech. Rebecca Mammel, a Ph.D. student in the human nutrition, foods, and exercise program in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, is applying data gathered from her research to improve her performance as an athlete. Mammel is a thrower on Virginia Tech's track and field team. Photo by Ray Meese for Virginia Tech. Rachel Baxter uses many of the usual tools of athleticism when she gets ready for a pole vaulting competition: track shoes, spandex shorts, and a 14-foot fiberglass Essx pole that enables her to push an incredible amount of torque and tension through her joints and ligaments to hurl her body through the air. But the graduate student is equipped with something a bit more unusual. An ankle monitor captures her every move, collecting data on her speed and timing as she sprints to the target. This information not only helps her perfect the number of strides before the jump, but also helps her in the lab. Baxter, a Virginia Tech pole vaulter, is working with Jay Williams, a professor of human nutrition, foods, and exercise, to study gait symmetry, impact forces, and speed differences among pole vaulters. Baxter is one of a handful of Virginia Tech athletes who are both pursuing the science of sport in the lab and earning kudos on the field. This year, Baxter became the first pole vaulter to win a national title at Virginia Tech. To conduct Baxter’s graduate research, a group of pole vaulters – eight women and five men – wear ankle monitors with special speed trap sensors. To test the data collection, Baxter uses the sensors on herself, but that data is not used in the research. “I was curious about what the data would show from me in practice and meets. I’ve been able to see how I progress, what the data looks like on good jumps, and where I came up short,” said Baxter, of Orange County, California. “Dr. Williams wanted to expand his sports science research to track and field. He’s been fantastic to work with on this project so far.” Loading player for https://video.vt.edu/media/1_b1zoc4qy... At the first meet of the season, Baxter’s marks were mostly the same — she hit the same run times with the same number of steps. With this data, she can make sure she optimizes her steps and her speed to get the highest possible clear. “Our goal is to use the data on these variables and combine it with the athletes’ results to help pole vault athletes maximize their potential,” Baxter said. “I’m excited to see where this research goes as we get the project fully up and running.” Elsewhere on the field is Becca Mammel, a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise who connects athletics with genetics to strengthen the human body. Mammel competes in the hammer throw and discus and recently chose Virginia Tech through the transfer portal. When she first arrived in Blacksburg, Mammel worked with Williams by strapping sensors to her wrist, back, and feet to check her acceleration and foot placement on throws that pushed her joints to the limit. Portions of her research helped Mammel make tiny adjustments to her throwing style, such as placing her foot down faster to maximize her potential. While she is still working with Williams on this research, Mammel had the realization that she is a lab scientist at heart. The Tecumseh, Michigan, native now works with Siobhan Craige, an assistant professor in the Department of Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise. In the Craige Lab, they study how the skeletal muscle adapts to exercise as many of these adaptations to exercise are protective against diseases, furthering the science of sport. Mammel’s initial projects include working with a senior graduate student identifying pathways that are activated immediately after a bout of acute endurance-type exercise. They are investigating mitochondrial metabolism. Mitochondria, the powerhouses of the cell, have a massive impact on metabolism. Her project has identified a specific protein that increases the production of signaling molecules called reactive oxygen species. “Working in the lab helps me to better understand how our bodies function and what we can do to make them perform at their best,” Becca Mammel said. Photo by Ray Meese for Virginia Tech. “Working in the lab helps me to better understand how our bodies function and what we can do to make them perform at their best,” Becca Mammel said. Photo by Ray Meese for Virginia Tech. These signaling molecules are required for some of the mitochondrial adaptive responses to exercise. In particular, Mammel has been helping Craige identify the molecular mechanisms that drive improved mitochondrial metabolism with exercise. In the future, Mammel is interested in looking at how the different cell types in the skeletal muscle communicate with each other, and she plans to look at how the vascular cells communicate with the skeletal muscle cells in both endurance-type exercise and resistance-type exercise. “In practice, I want to get faster, more explosive, and improve my technique. The main way to do that is to improve my fitness and get stronger. How do I become a stronger athlete? By building more muscle mass and learning how to move my body better. In my research, I work for the same thing but from a different perspective,” Mammel said. Instead of blindly lifting in the weight room or running, Mammel takes a more scientific approach to working out by looking at skeletal muscle, how it grows, adapts, and what happens when the related pathways change. “As my knowledge in science is growing, I am starting to change the way I look at working out,” Mammel said. “I’ve learned our bodies have different systems that are active when doing different exercises, and it’s important to know which you are training. As a thrower, I need my muscles to be explosive, a high-intensity short-duration activity. I should train my ATP-CP system — my explosive system — and not my oxidative, slow system,” Mammel said. Contact: Max Esterhuizen 540-231-6630 Tags College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Graduate Research Human Nutrition, Foods, and Exercise Intercollegiate Athletics Research Top News Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station Share this story Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Related Content Article Item Virginia Tech alumna connects tourists and locals with things to do in Washington, D.C. , article Date: May 30, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech Board of Visitors to meet June 6-7 , article Date: May 27, 2022 Article Item Virginia General Assembly recognizes Loudoun Extension Master Gardener program , article Date: May 26, 2022 Video Item ‪Barath Udayasurya, Taking a Closer Look at Cancer Research , video Date: May 17, 2022 Video Item Commonwealth Cyber Initiative installs 72 radio nodes into xG test bed , video Date: May 12, 2022 Video Item What's Your Science?- Nikki Keith , video Date: May 11, 2022 Related Content Article Item Virginia General Assembly recognizes Loudoun Extension Master Gardener program , article Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item Neuroscientists will probe the functional brain circuitry that underlies learned preferences for tasty food , article Date: May 24, 2022 Article Item In memoriam: Professor Emeritus Dale Duane Wolf , article Date: May 24, 2022 Video Item Students buzzing about hands-on learning , video Date: May 06, 2022 Video Item Outstanding senior finds her passion for nutrition and preventative medicine in HNFE , video Date: May 04, 2022 Video Item Horticulture Club and Hahn Horticulture Garden Spring Plant Sale , video Date: Apr 19, 2022 Academics view all Article Item University to offer new Master of Information Technology scholarships this fall , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Veterinary college welcomes new clinical assistant professor in Equine Field Services , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech sweeps the 2022 National Soil Judging Championship , article Date: May 20, 2022 General Item Register for summer 2022 in-person faculty writing retreat Date: May 20, 2022 Campus Experience view all General Item Update regarding new Commonwealth of Virginia telework policy Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech Board of Visitors to meet June 6-7 , article Date: May 27, 2022 Article Item Things to know for this weekend's NCAA Softball Super Regional , article Date: May 26, 2022 General Item Travel impacts: NCAA softball super regional tournament Date: May 26, 2022 Culture view all Article Item Robert E. Denton Jr., director of the School of Communication, to retire , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech alumna connects tourists and locals with things to do in Washington, D.C. , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Early childhood educators reflect, share, and learn during symposium , article Date: May 2022 Video Item Coach Pry visits the Innovation Campus , video Date: May 2022 Impact view all Article Item RADIO IQ wins six Edward R. Murrow Awards for outstanding news , article Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item Expert takeaways from this week's GOP primaries , article Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item Virginia General Assembly recognizes Loudoun Extension Master Gardener program , article Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item Tropical storm expert encourages people to be ‘weather aware’ as hurricane season starts , article Date: May 25, 2022 Research view all Article Item The science of sport , article Date: May 31, 2022 General Item Participants needed for nutrition research study on dietary assessment and weight Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item New effort to connect college support networks for low-income engineering students , article Date: May 25, 2022 Article Item College of Science students win Beckman Scholarships for collaborative research projects , article Date: May 25, 2022 Daily doodle view all Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Date: May 31, 2022 Missed a Doodle? Catch up on past Doodles from the Virginia Tech Daily Email. Doodle archive Email Doodle suggestions doodles@vt.edu Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Subscribe to get the daily email Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan For the media © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok