Skip to main content Skip to search Virginia Tech® home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners X VTx logo Exponentially more Browse Categories Academics Campus Experience Culture Impact Research Videos Features News & Stories Magazine Notices Daily Doodle Tags Subscribe to daily email For the media Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok Search toggle Category: research College of Science students win Beckman Scholarships for collaborative research projects Students Camille Bridgewater, Sera Choi, and Nikki Keith are recognized. 25 May 2022 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Left to right, Camille Bridgewater, Sera Choi, and Nikki Keith have won scholarships from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation. In the photo, the trio are standing in the center of the main hallway of the New Classroom Building. All are smiling toward the camera. Photo for Virginia Tech by Steven Mackay. (From left) Camille Bridgewater, Sera Choi, and Nikki Keith earned scholarships from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation. Photo by Steven Mackay for Virginia Tech. Three Virginia Tech College of Science students have been awarded scholarships from the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, which honors students studying and doing research in the fields of chemistry, biochemistry, and biological sciences. This year’s cohort, all second-year students, are Camille Bridgewater, double majoring in chemistry and physics; Sera Choi, a biological sciences major; and Nikki Keith, double majoring in biological sciences and clinical neuroscience in the Virginia Tech School of Neuroscience. Amanda Morris, director of Virginia Tech’s Beckman Scholars Program, said of the scholarships, “The Beckman Scholar awards provide undergraduate students the opportunity to explore undergraduate research in the deepest and fullest sense. It provides research funding for supplies, travel money for national conference attendance, and a stipend so that students have the financial freedom from adding on an additional job.” Students receive an $18,200 stipend: $6,800 each for the first and second summers and $4,600 for the academic year. Additionally, students receive $4,800 in supply and travels funds. Faculty mentors each get a $5,000 stipend. Each student will collaborate across multiple disciplines, including the Virginia Tech College of Engineering’s chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, and biomedical engineering and mechanics departments as well as the Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine. “Through these collaborative interactions, we are preparing our students for the interdisciplinary world that awaits them beyond the doors of Virginia Tech,” said Morris, a professor and associate chair in the Department of Chemistry as well as a Patricia Caldwell Faculty Fellow in the College of Science. In partnership with the Virginia Tech Fralin Life Sciences Institute, the Beckman program is a 15-month mentored research experience for exceptional undergraduate students. Through unique programming in communication, leadership, the process of grant-writing, and diversity and inclusion awareness, it seeks to cultivate the next generation of scientific leaders, according to the nonprofit’s website. The foundation was established in September 1977 by Dr. Arnold O. and Mrs. Mabel Beckman. <p>Your browser does not support iframes. Link to iframe content: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5acPUxVyH2g">https://www.youtube.com/embed/5acPUxVyH2g</a></p> Camille Bridgewater Bridgewater said she has been interested in science since elementary school. “I was doing experiments before I knew what science was. Playing outside was always a favorite pastime of mine,” she wrote in her submission packet. “Climbing trees and watching ants especially. Science has always been a big contributor to my personality. I even won my first science fair in first grade by growing rock candy. I lived in the library. I checked out books about rocks, stars, planets, the ocean — you name it, I probably read a book about it.” Bridgewater said she wants to focus on sustainability. “I love problem-solving and figuring how things work, and many industries are not as environmentally friendly as they could be. I eventually want to help develop alternative energy sources and make chemistry more green overall,” she said. Bridgewater’s goal post-graduation is to purse a Ph.D. As part of her Beckman scholarship, she will be working with Morris of the Department of Chemistry and Sanket Deshmukh, an assistant professor of chemical engineering, on a research project that focuses on the design of metal organic frameworks. <p>Your browser does not support iframes. Link to iframe content: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/uyoxljjcaDQ">https://www.youtube.com/embed/uyoxljjcaDQ</a></p> Sera Choi Choi said her interest science really got started when she first learned about stem cells and their potential to become any cell in the body. “Starting then, I think I’ve just become very passionate about the possibilities of cell-based research,” she said. She’s putting that passion to work on her research project. She will help build tissue scaffolding to try and encourage cellular growth, a research project headed by Christopher Williams, the L.S. Randolph Professor in mechanical engineering, and Abby Whittington, an associate professor of both chemical engineering and materials science and engineering. “The ability to not only work with incredible mentors and doctors from the Carilion Clinic, but also the ability to be able to access equipment like a professional 3D printer and other novel material systems to work on the potential of biomimicking polymers to be used in surgeries is one of the reasons the Beckman Scholars program is so special and I feel is necessary for me to further my goals,” Choi wrote in her submission packet. <p>Your browser does not support iframes. Link to iframe content: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jjvcwpMUFBk">https://www.youtube.com/embed/jjvcwpMUFBk</a></p> Nikki Keith Keith’s fascination with science also started at any early age. “The very first memory I have of going to a hospital is when I had a tonsillectomy in elementary school,” Keith wrote in her nomination packet. “I noticed everything going on around me — the numerous alarms buzzing, the swift movement of people intertwining in hallways, neat technologies all throughout the building. It looked like organized chaos in every direction, and I was completely fascinated by it.” In addition to classes and research, Keith has worked at a hospital as a nursing assistant. Her career goal is to develop economical and efficient therapeutics for medical conditions. “Working one-on-one with sick patients has made me realize that it’s disheartening how debilitating some of these medical conditions are, yet some of the most effective treatments are financially draining to patients,” she said. She will work on a cancer research project with Eli Vlaisavljevich, a professor of biomedical engineering and mechanics, and Irving Allen, an associate professor of biomedical sciences and pathobiology at the Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine. Related story Cassell McMillian selected as Virginia Tech’s inaugural Beckman Scholar Contact: Steven Mackay 540-231-5035 Tags Biological Sciences Biomedical Engineering and Mechanics Chemical Engineering Chemistry College of Engineering College of Science College of Science Students Fralin Life Sciences Institute Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Neuroscience Research School of Neuroscience Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Research Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine Share this story Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Related Content Article Item Jack Finney honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Mary Leigh Wolfe honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item University to offer new Master of Information Technology scholarships this fall , article Date: May 31, 2022 Video Item ‪Barath Udayasurya, Taking a Closer Look at Cancer Research , video Date: May 17, 2022 Video Item Commonwealth Cyber Initiative installs 72 radio nodes into xG test bed , video Date: May 12, 2022 Video Item What's Your Science? - Sera Choi , video Date: May 11, 2022 Related Content Article Item Jack Finney honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item New study: A vicious cycle of oxygen loss threatens water quality in lakes , article Date: May 25, 2022 Article Item Beyond Boundaries Scholars program makes major impact , article Date: May 24, 2022 Video Item What's Your Science? - Sera Choi , video Date: May 11, 2022 Video Item What's Your Science?- Nikki Keith , video Date: May 11, 2022 Video Item What's Your Science? - Camille Bridgewater , video Date: May 11, 2022 Academics view all Article Item Jason Grant named W.G. Wysor Professor of Agriculture , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Mary Leigh Wolfe honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item University to offer new Master of Information Technology scholarships this fall , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Veterinary college welcomes new clinical assistant professor in Equine Field Services , article Date: May 31, 2022 Campus Experience view all General Item Update regarding new Commonwealth of Virginia telework policy Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech Board of Visitors to meet June 6-7 , article Date: May 27, 2022 Article Item Things to know for this weekend's NCAA Softball Super Regional , article Date: May 26, 2022 General Item Travel impacts: NCAA softball super regional tournament Date: May 26, 2022 Culture view all Article Item Robert E. Denton Jr., director of the School of Communication, to retire , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech alumna connects tourists and locals with things to do in Washington, D.C. , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Early childhood educators reflect, share, and learn during symposium , article Date: May 2022 Video Item Coach Pry visits the Innovation Campus , video Date: May 2022 Impact view all Article Item Michael Lambur honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Karen DePauw honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Jack Finney honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item RADIO IQ wins six Edward R. Murrow Awards for outstanding news , article Date: May 26, 2022 Research view all Article Item The science of sport , article Date: May 31, 2022 General Item Participants needed for nutrition research study on dietary assessment and weight Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item New effort to connect college support networks for low-income engineering students , article Date: May 25, 2022 Article Item College of Science students win Beckman Scholarships for collaborative research projects , article Date: May 25, 2022 Daily doodle view all Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Date: May 31, 2022 Missed a Doodle? Catch up on past Doodles from the Virginia Tech Daily Email. Doodle archive Email Doodle suggestions doodles@vt.edu Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Subscribe to get the daily email Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan For the media © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok