Skip to main content Skip to search VTx logo home Virginia Tech home Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Report a barrier Accessibility portal Pause all background videos Underline all links Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Virginia Tech® magazine Browse Virginia Tech Magazine Features Around the Drillfield Around the Hokie Nation End Note Issues About the Magazine VTx Home Apply Visit Give Shop Hokie Gear Apparel, clothing, gear and merchandise Hokie Shop University Bookstore, merchandise and gifts Hokie License Plates Part of every Virginia Tech plate purchase funds scholarships Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok Search toggle Jade Womack graduated from Virginia Tech in 2015 with a degree in applied economics management. Photo courtesy of Jade Womack. Category: culture Virginia Tech alumna connects tourists and locals with things to do in Washington, D.C. 30 May 2022 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Jade Womack is working to bring a sense of community similar to the one she found at Virginia Tech to residents of Washington, D.C. She created Clockout D.C., a calendar blog with a popular Instagram following that provides tourists and locals with information on upcoming events in and around the metropolitan area. Clockout gained over 30,000 Instagram followers in the past year and a half. “I was bartending one summer in addition to working my government job,” Womack said. “I was looking for things to do that were not happy hour because that’s what D.C. is known for — happy hour and museums.” Womack would research events happening in the city and put together lists, which led to the creation of Clockout D.C. in October 2020. That then led to her newest side gig as a culture editor at the Washingtonian, a magazine guide to life in Washington, D.C. “I was a blogger in my room writing, not thinking that I would get this following,” she said. “Honestly, it’s wild. This was a hobby. I didn’t think I was going to become a journalist.” Womack graduated magna cum laude in 2015 with a degree in applied economics management from the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. During her four years in Blacksburg, she was involved in the Honors College, Young Democrats, and the Coalition for Refugee Resettlement, and she conducted undergraduate research. Her scattered interests led her down a winding path on which she changed her major five times. She started out studying landscape architecture, and by the time she graduated she had tried international development, political science, French, and, finally, economics. “I took a semester — my freshman year in the spring — of classes I thought were just interesting,” Womack said. “I took beekeeping. I took an ROTC class on Tomahawk cruise missiles just for fun. I took a class of history of American cities, and then I took one of my first economics classes. I took a lot of fun classes because I was kind of lost.” Through guidance from professors, she discovered what she wanted to do. The summer after her freshman year, she worked at a McDonald’s in West Virginia during the peak of the opioid crisis. When she returned to Virginia Tech that fall, she spoke with Edward Weisband, the Edward S. Diggs Endowed Chair in the Social Sciences, about the poverty she witnessed. He told her, “If you want to know why people are poor, you have to know how wealth is created, and you need to study economics,” Womack said She did, and through her studies, she gained a deeper understanding of the subject at a broader societal level. In 2017, she also earned a master’s degree from Cornell University’s Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management. Weisband wasn’t the only professor to impact Womack during her time at Virginia Tech. Peter Wallenstein, a history professor, is another. Though Womack never took any of his classes, she gives him much of the credit for her success. “Pretty much every day after my classes, I would just swing on by — my little 18-year-old self — chatter, chatter, chatter, chatter with this man, and he became like my mentor,” Womack said. “He helped write all my letters for undergraduate research, and he even wrote one of my letters for grad school.” Today, when she’s not updating her followers on events around D.C. or writing newsletters for the Washingtonian, she’s at her day job as an energy economist for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. “I work as an economist in the federal government where I regulate mergers of energy companies,” Womack said. “I work in antitrust is the best way to put it.” She remembers fondly the community she developed while at Virginia Tech and the university motto, Ut Prosim (That I May Serve). She hopes to provide a similar sense of community for D.C. residents through her coverage of niche events. “Virginia Tech is very special, because when we talk about ‘That I May Serve,’ it has such a sense of community,” Womack said. “I’m able to introduce people to the city in a very local way, but also show people where they can find community.” By Savannah Webb '23, University Relations intern Contact: Annie McCallum Tags Agricultural and Applied Economics Alumni Around the Hokie Nation College of Liberal Arts and Human Sciences Culture Top News Undergraduate Research Young Alumni Share this story Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Copy address link to clipboard Related Content Article Item Virginia Tech hosts local leaders for conversation about child care , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Jason Grant named W.G. Wysor Professor of Agriculture , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Mary Leigh Wolfe honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Video Item Coach Pry visits the Innovation Campus , video Date: May 20, 2022 Video Item Pat Artis honored with 2022 Alumni Distinguished Service Award , video Date: May 12, 2022 Video Item John Dooley honored with 2022 Alumni Distinguished Service Award , video Date: May 12, 2022 Related Content Article Item Alumna channels love of paleontology into children's book series , article Date: May 20, 2022 Article Item Make plans to attend Reunion Weekend 2022 , article Date: Mar 30, 2022 Article Item Alumna and 3D artist lands gaming design dream job , article Date: Mar 14, 2022 Video Item We love your #HokieLove! , video Date: Feb 11, 2021 Video Item Building Desks for Alexandria Students in Need , video Date: Nov 03, 2020 Video Item Congratulations, College of Engineering class of 2019 , video Date: May 23, 2019 Academics view all Article Item Jason Grant named W.G. Wysor Professor of Agriculture , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Mary Leigh Wolfe honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item University to offer new Master of Information Technology scholarships this fall , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Veterinary college welcomes new clinical assistant professor in Equine Field Services , article Date: May 31, 2022 Campus Experience view all General Item Update regarding new Commonwealth of Virginia telework policy Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech Board of Visitors to meet June 6-7 , article Date: May 27, 2022 Article Item Things to know for this weekend's NCAA Softball Super Regional , article Date: May 26, 2022 General Item Travel impacts: NCAA softball super regional tournament Date: May 26, 2022 Culture view all Article Item Virginia Tech hosts local leaders for conversation about child care , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Robert E. Denton Jr., director of the School of Communication, to retire , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Virginia Tech alumna connects tourists and locals with things to do in Washington, D.C. , article Date: May 2022 Article Item Early childhood educators reflect, share, and learn during symposium , article Date: May 2022 Impact view all Article Item Wildfire season heats up; expert offers advice for community preparedness , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Michael Lambur honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Karen DePauw honored with emerita status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Article Item Jack Finney honored with emeritus status , article Date: May 31, 2022 Research view all Article Item The science of sport , article Date: May 31, 2022 General Item Participants needed for nutrition research study on dietary assessment and weight Date: May 26, 2022 Article Item New effort to connect college support networks for low-income engineering students , article Date: May 25, 2022 Article Item College of Science students win Beckman Scholarships for collaborative research projects , article Date: May 25, 2022 Daily doodle view all Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Date: May 31, 2022 Missed a Doodle? Catch up on past Doodles from the Virginia Tech Daily Email. Doodle archive Email Doodle suggestions doodles@vt.edu Article Item Campus Curiosities: Pallets Move the World , article Get Directions See All Locations Contact Virginia Tech University Status Privacy Statement Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech Strategic Plan For the media © 2022 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube Snapchat TikTok