SURGe Search Primary Menu Skip to content Home Spring 2018 Lineup Upcoming Upcoming Meetings Upcoming Events Upcoming Volunteer Events About Us Officers 2017 – 2018 Our Organization Constitution and Bylaws Officer Archives Committees Public Relations Committee Fundraising Committee WebDev Committee Member Points FAQs Join SURGe Mailing List Professor Archive Links SURGe Blog SURGe SHOP Research Links CNS Reseach Page EUREKA OHRIS UT CO-OP Website Log In Register for this Site Search for: Home Welcome to the official SURGe website. SURGe is a student organization at the University of Texas at Austin that works to foster a cohesive undergraduate research community. To this end, we are a network of individual students, some currently working in researching labs and some not, who meet to discuss and promote involvement in scientific research on campus. The group’s requirements are minimal: we want you to attend meetings and actively participate as best as you can. We currently have three active committees: Fundraising, Public Relations, and Web Dev. Our weekly meetings usually feature a speaker,or panel of speakers, to present research-related topics. We currently meet in Wel 3.402 on Thursdays from 5-6:00 pm. We encourage you to stay after the meetings to ask the presenter questions you may have, as well as to eat the free pizza we provide weekly and maybe have a chat with an officer. Start your networking with us! We also perform volunteer opportunities on campus and host research shadowing opportunities. Like all organizations, SURGe is entirely what you make of it! And you want to know the best part about us? SURGe membership is absolutely FREE! There are no prerequisites, nor is prior laboratory experience a necessity. Students of all majors and levels are welcome to join and contribute. On behalf of all of us in SURGe: Welcome! And we look forward to meeting you! Hits: 146512 Recent Posts CNS Summer Opportunities Workshop/Networking Event How To Get Involved In Research Explore UT Science Undergrad Research Fair ESI Lecture Most Read Posts No results available No dues, just research! Office of Undergrad Research Member Points Sheet Surge Committees Fundraising Committee WebDev Committee Public Relations Committee Categories Meeting Archives (84) Research Tips (1) uncategorized (126) Upcoming Events (2) Upcoming Meetings (2) Upcoming Volunteer Events (1) Links CNS Research Page EUREKA OHRIS SURGe Blog UT CO-OP WordPress Blog Proudly powered by WordPress