Skip to main content View calendar Visit Exhibitions Events Education Curriculum Guide: Social Movements Curriculum Guide: Harlem Renaissance Interviews The Way We Remember MODA Curates 2021 The Protest and The Recuperation Uptown Triennial 2020 Waiting for Omar Gatlato Publications About Us Event Calendar Make a Gift About Us Installation view of "Uptown Triennial 2020" The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery advances Columbia University's historical, critical, and creative engagement with the visual arts. Serving as both a laboratory and a forum, The Wallach Art Gallery offers opportunities for curatorial practice and discourse, while bridging the diverse approaches to the arts at the University with a welcome broader public. We present projects that: Are organized by graduate students and faculty in Art History & Archaeology or by other Columbia scholars; Focus on the contemporary artists of our campus and communities; Offer new scholarship on University special collections. Established in 1986, The Wallach Art Gallery is the University's premier visual arts space. We are a platform for critically acclaimed exhibitions, a dynamic range of programming, and publications that contribute to scholarship. The Wallach Art Gallery also animates other university spaces as opportunity arises. We operate in close relationship to the Department of Art History and Archaeology, School of the Arts, and the university Libraries, particularly Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library. GALLERY STAFF Betti-Sue Hertz, Director and Chief Curator-The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Lewis Long, Associate Director, External Affairs Jennifer Mock, Associate Director-Education and Public Programs Jeanette Silverthorne, Associate Director, Finance and Administration Eddie José Bartolomei, Exhibitions Manager Diana Matuszak, Exhibition Coordinator and Registrar Zachary Valdez, Administrative Assistant Evan Clinton, Gallery Attendant Stephanie Litchfield, Gallery Attendant Daniel Lopez, Gallery Attendant GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Carol Becker, Dean, The School of the Arts and Professor of the Arts Michael Cole, Chair, Department of Art History and Archaeology; Professor of Art History and Archaeology Hannah Bennett, Director, Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library Amy E. Hungerford, Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences; Professor of English and Comparative Literature Betti-Sue Hertz, Director & Chief Curator-The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery STEERING COMMITTEE Alexander Alberro, Virginia Wright Professor of Modern and Contemporary Art History at Barnard College Frédérique Baumgartner, Lecturer and Director of MA in Art History, Dept. of Art History and Archaeology Matthew Buckingham, Associate Professor of Professional Practice and Chair, Dept. of Visual Arts Roberto C. Ferrari, Curator of Art Properties, Avery Architectural and Fines Arts Library Manuela Hansen, MA Candidate in Modern Art: Critical and Curatorial Studies, Dept. of Art History and Archaeology Kellie E. Jones, Professor in Art History and Archaeology and the Institute for Research in African American Studies (IRAAS) at Columbia University Holger Klein, Lisa and Bernard Selz Professor of Medieval Art History, Dept. of Art History and Archaeology Tara Kuruvilla, PhD Candidate, Dept. of Art History and Archaeology Sable Elyse Smith, Assistant Professor, Dept. of Visual Arts Betti-Sue Hertz - Chair, Director, The Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery FAQ To help you better plan your visit, or for helpful hints and explanations of the Gallery’s policies, below are answers to frequently asked questions. Where is the nearest parking garage? The Gallery does not have on-site parking but there are several parking garages serving West Harlem at the following locations: 69 St. Clair Place, 635 West 131st Street, and 3270 Old Broadway Is the Gallery available for Columbia University and private events? Unfortunately, we do not rent the Gallery for private events. The only external events permitted at the Gallery are those organized by the University’s academic and extracurricular organizations. Other spaces in the Lenfest Center of the Arts including the The Lantern may be available. The staff of the Lenfest Center should be contacted for availability and pricing. The Wallach Art Gallery is will consider special hours to provide access to the Gallery exhibitions during special University or private events scheduled in the Lenfest Center for the Arts. Is sketching allowed in the galleries? Sketching is allowed, but we ask that only pencils and a moderate-sized notepad is used. No easels or paints will be permitted. Is photography permitted in the galleries? Unless otherwise noted, gallery visitors may take non-flash photographs for personal use. Photography made for commercial use, wedding photography, and formal distribution are prohibited. Flash photography, videography, and the use of tripods are not permitted. To request permission to conduct a professional photo shoot, for press or other uses, please contact Columbia University Office of Communications and Public Affairs. Are refreshments available at the Gallery? The Gallery does not offer on-site dining. No drinks or food will be permitted in the Gallery. May I submit a proposal for an exhibition or acquisition? Unsolicited proposals will not be considered. Do you charge a fee for self-guided groups? Self-guided groups are welcome, free of charge, to visit the Gallery’s exhibitions. All groups must register at least three weeks in advance, and acceptance of your reservation request is based on availability. This policy is designed to provide a enjoyable learning experience for everyone, and to ensure the safety and security of both museum visitors and art objects. Are large bags, backpacks, or luggage permitted on site? If you arrive carrying a backpack, umbrella, laptop, or any bag bigger than 11 x 14 inches, we will direct you to our lockers to store your items. Are mobile devices permitted in the galleries? Feel free to text, tweet, or listen to audio resources during your visit. As a courtesy to other visitors, we ask that you please set your phone to vibrate and take all voice calls outside of the galleries. Additionally, the museum has free wi-fi available in all public spaces, including the galleries, and other venues in the Lenfest Center of the Arts. Can the Gallery appraise my artwork or artifacts? The Gallery and its staff are unable to authenticate or perform appraisals of works of art or artifacts for the public. We suggest that you consult a reputable art dealer, appraiser, or auction house. Can I link to the Gallery’s website? The Wallach Art Gallery neither authorizes nor prohibits links to its website. Any such link does not connote an endorsement by or affiliation with the Wallach Art Gallery. CONTACT THE GALLERY Email: [email protected] Mailing Address: Wallach Art Gallery Columbia University Lenfest Center of the Arts 615 West 129th Street (MC 9829) New York, NY 10027 Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Lenfest Center for the Arts, Columbia University 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 1-212-853-1623 · Contact Us · Stay in Touch · The Lenfest Center for the Arts Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment