Skip to main content View calendar Visit Exhibitions Events Education Curriculum Guide: Social Movements Curriculum Guide: Harlem Renaissance Interviews The Way We Remember MODA Curates 2021 The Protest and The Recuperation Uptown Triennial 2020 Waiting for Omar Gatlato Publications About Us Event Calendar Make a Gift EDUCATION Experience Wallach Art Gallery Education and Public Program events and activities. The Wallach Art Gallery offers Education and Public Programming experiences for visitors of all ages. Gallery programs, family workshops, and public programs promote discussion about exhibitions and offer a framework for thinking about the role of art and creativity in daily life. Advance registration is required for all adult and student groups of 10 or more. All programs and events are free of charge and open to the public. Public Programs Gallery programs for all ages promote discussion about exhibitions and offer a framework for thinking about the role of art and creativity in daily life. Public Programs Family Programs Art-making and creative self-expression are at the heart of Wallach Art Gallery Family programs. Families Educators The Wallach Art Gallery welcomes teachers and educators to see the gallery as an extension of their classroom. Visits involve object-based inquiry and facilitated discussion about art works and primary source materials. Hour-long guided visits are available upon request free of charge. Educators Group Visits Learn more about Wallach Art Gallery exhibitions! Bring your group for a guided gallery conversation and discover multiple perspectives for understanding works on view in a setting that supports and encourages close looking, critical thinking and informal discussion between visitors. Group Visits Stay in touch! Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name Zip Code for US residents only Public Programs Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Lenfest Center for the Arts, Columbia University 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 1-212-853-1623 · Contact Us · Stay in Touch · The Lenfest Center for the Arts Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment