Skip to main content View calendar Visit Exhibitions Events Education Curriculum Guide: Social Movements Curriculum Guide: Harlem Renaissance Interviews The Way We Remember MODA Curates 2021 The Protest and The Recuperation Uptown Triennial 2020 Waiting for Omar Gatlato Publications About Us Event Calendar Make a Gift TIME AND FACE: DAGUERREOTYPES TO DIGITAL PRINTS Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints exhibition is drawn exclusively from the Collection of Art Properties at Columbia University and includes photographs produced using most photomechanical processes. Arranged in four thematic sections—time and technology, face, innocence, and fame—the exhibition presents formal portraits alongside figurative subjects in photojournalism and documentary photography, with over 100 examples of works dating from the origins of photography in the 1840s to today. Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints is curated by Roberto C. Ferrari, the Curator of Art Properties at Columbia University’s Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library. Ferrari notes: “Columbia was one of the first institutions to collect photographs for research and study, and we continue to this day to build on that legacy. We regularly receive gifts of art from alumni and other donors, and we seek to proactively collect work that emphasizes diversity, equity, and inclusiveness in support of our educational mission. This exhibition will be the first large-scale effort to showcase a selection of photography from this remarkable, yet unknown, collection.” 1/7 SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Henry Pollock. "Two Women Holding a Book," ca. 1850. Quarter-plate daguerreotype with hand-applied color and gilt in case. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of Robert Shlaer and M. Susan Barger. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Unknown photographer. "A Girl," 1860s. Sixth-plate tintype with hand coloring with brass mat and preserver. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of Robert Shlaer and M. Susan Barger. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Mike Disfarmer. "Darlene Teal, Age 2 Years," 1930s. Gelatin silver print. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of Hugh and Sandra Lawson. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Larry Fink. "Harlem Youth," 1964, printed 2019. Archival pigment print. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of Dr. and Mrs. Altan Yenicay. © Larry Fink, reproduced by permission. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Andy Warhol. "Marie-Chantal Miller (Later, the Crown Princess of Greece)," 1985. Polacolor ER. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University. © The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Tina Barney. "Father and Son," 1991, printed 2021. Archival pigment print. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of the artist. © Tina Barney, reproduced by permission. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Aubrey Mayer. "Jacqueline Humphries," from the project "Brillo V2," 2013. Digital pigment print. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of John L. Auerbach. © Aubrey Mayer. Works on view will include photographic portraits ranging from nineteenth-century daguerreotypes and other cased works, to early paper-based works such as albumen print cartes de visite, to twentieth-century gelatin silver prints and chrome prints, to contemporary archival pigment prints. Among the highlights are Martin M. Lawrence’s mammoth-plate daguerreotype of New York City newspaper publisher and politician James Watson Webb, which won an award at the Great Exhibition of 1851; a recently-conserved woodburytype print of the Fisk Jubilee Singers from the mid-1880s; vintage studio portraits by the Arkansas-based photographer Mike Disfarmer; and contemporary work such as John Pinderhughes’s portrait of Mrs. Irene Johnson from his Harlem Portraits series. The exhibition also includes photographs by twentieth-century artists Manuel Álvarez Bravo, Helen Levitt, Arthur Rothstein, and Andy Warhol, and by contemporary artists Tina Barney, Larry Fink, Danny Lyon, and Shirin Neshat, among others. Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints coincides with the presentation of What is the Use of Buddhist Art? and Object Relations: Indigenous Belongings. Collectively these exhibitions present more than 150 works of art and cultural heritage objects from Columbia’s Collection of Art Properties. Most on view to the public for the first time, they are a fraction of more than 13,000 objects in the holdings of the collection housed at the Avery Architectural & Fine Art Library. This wide-ranging collection, built over two centuries, has been acquired principally through donations from alumni and faculty, and includes antiquities, cultural heritage objects, and numerous examples of works of art through the twenty-first century. The mission of the collection is to support educational programs, curricular integration, research, and study. Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints is supported by Robert Shlaer and M. Susan Barger. The Wallach Art Gallery's exhibition programs are made possible with support from the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Endowment Fund, the Charina Endowment Fund, and the gallery's patrons. The Gallery extends special thanks to Jeffrey Hoffeld and an anonymous donor. Roberto Ferrari extends thanks to all of the following for their research and exhibition assistance, encouragement, and active participation in making this project possible: the Art Properties team (Eric J. Reisenger and Lillian Vargas) and colleagues in Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library (Hannah Bennett, Katherine Prater, Dwight Primiano, and Margaret Smithglass); colleagues in Columbia University Libraries, particularly University Archives and Conservation; the entire Wallach Art Gallery team for bringing it all together; Dr. Frédérique Baumgartner and students in the MA in Art History program (Alison Braybrooks, Andie Fialkoff, Sophia Gebara, Abbe Klein, Colton Klein, and Emily Wehby), as well as Ashley Williams, PhD student and Art Properties graduate student assistant; our conservators, mountmakers, and framers (Paul Himmelstein, Alec Madoff, Peter Mustardo/The Better Image, Batyah Shtrum/SBE Conservation, and City Frame); and to all the donors of the works of art and cultural heritage objects from the collection on view in these three exhibitions. Photographer unknown, The Fisk Jubilee Singers, 1882-1885. Collection of Art Properties, Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library, Columbia University. Date Past Exhibition Curated By Roberto C. Ferrari, Curator of Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library at Columbia University Share RELATED PROJECT People and Props in Photography, 1840s-1940s takes a close look at seven photographs from Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints that reflect various technical processes utilized during the first century of the medium history. This online presentation is the fifth in the “MA in Art History Presents” series, which offer MA candidates an opportunity to curate an exhibition—in this case in an online format—based on the Columbia University art collection. Next Exhibition December 4, 2021 - March 12, 2022 WHAT IS THE USE OF BUDDHIST ART? Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Lenfest Center for the Arts, Columbia University 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 1-212-853-1623 · Contact Us · Stay in Touch · The Lenfest Center for the Arts Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment