Lamont-Doherty, Palisades, New York wallysymposium@ldeo.columbia.edu Home AccommodationTributeAGENDAWebcastContact WALLY BROECKER SYMPOSIUMWatch Webcast OCTOBER 24-26, New York WALLY BROECKER SYMPOSIUM Watch Webcast About The Event This event will highlight the research themes of Wally’s career and touch upon his many distinguished accomplishments. There will be science presentations covering geochemistry, oceanography and climate change, with additional time for scientific discussions and personal remembrances. A banquet dinner will be held on the evening of Friday, October 25, at the HNA Conference Center near LDEO (formerly the IBM Executive Conference Center), offering an additional opportunity to share in the memories and fellowship with members of Wally’s family, former students, and many colleagues. Wallace S. Broecker, known universally as Wally, was born in 1931 in Chicago. He arrived at Columbia’s Lamont Geological Observatory campus in 1952 as a summer student from Wheaton College in Illinois. He spent the summer at Lamont, and then transferred to Columbia College … and never left. Over the subsequent six-plus decades, he became Columbia’s most distinguished and celebrated Earth Scientist, publishing more than 600 papers and 12 books, supervising scores of undergraduate and graduate students, and winning every conceivable award in the Earth Sciences, including the Crafoord Prize, the nearest thing to a Nobel Prize in the field. Following his death in early 2019, many of his colleagues at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (LDEO) and beyond decided collectively to gather together to offer a tribute to his singular career and accomplishments. Please join us in celebrating the life and times of Wally Broecker, at LDEO, the institution where he spent his remarkable career. FEATURED POSTS Wallace Broecker, Prophet of Climate Change Wallace Broecker (1931-2019) Geochemist who transformed understanding of the climate system Remembering Wally Broecker, 1931-2019 LOCATION / contact us Lamont-Doherty Campus: 61 Rte 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 HNA Palisades Conference Center: 334 Rte 9W, Palisades, NY 10964 Email: Wallysymposium@ldeo.columbia.edu Copyright © 2019 by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, Lamont -Doherty Earth Observatory. All rights reserved