Skip to main content View calendar Visit Exhibitions Events Education Curriculum Guide: Social Movements Curriculum Guide: Harlem Renaissance Interviews The Way We Remember MODA Curates 2021 The Protest and The Recuperation Uptown Triennial 2020 Waiting for Omar Gatlato Publications About Us Event Calendar Make a Gift WHAT IS THE USE OF BUDDHIST ART? What is the Use of Buddhist Art? draws from the Buddhist objects in the Collection of Art Properties housed at Columbia University’s Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library. The exhibition includes sculptures, stelae, paintings, texts, and ritual implements from ancient Gandhara (Pakistan/India), Nepal, Tibet, China, Japan, and Southeast Asia. What is the Use of Buddhist Art? Is curated by D. Max Moerman, Professor of Asian & Middle Eastern Cultures at Barnard College. “This exhibition is an opportunity to appreciate Buddhist visual and material culture in their contexts of practice and use: in rites of consecration and offering, visualization and protection, healing and fertility, and death and memorialization,” says Moerman. 1/5 SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Head of a Bodhisattva, 960–1279, Song dynasty; China. Fresco. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Arthur M. Sackler Collections. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Bodhisattva Standing on a Lotus Base, 960–1279, Song dynasty; China. Paulownia (foxglove) wood with polychromy. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Arthur M. Sackler Collections. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION The Lokapala Offering Bowls to the Buddha, 2nd–3rd century; Gandhara. Schist. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of Gary K. Johnson and Allyson Powers Johnson. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Bodhisattva (Possibly Manjusri) Reliquary, 18th century; Tibet. Gilded copper-zinc alloy (brass) with traces of polychromy and semiprecious stones. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University. SELECTED WORKS IN THE EXHIBITION Seated Monk (Possibly Jizo Bosatsu), 13th century, Kamakura period; Japan. Lacquered and gilded wood with semiprecious stone. Art Properties, Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, Gift of J. G. Phelps Stokes. The exhibition seeks to remove Buddhist objects from the modern European category of art and resituate them within the historical and ritual contexts of their production and use. Issues of agency, instrumentality, materiality, and presence in Buddhist visual culture are prioritized over art-historical concerns of form, style, and connoisseurship. By attending to the ritual function and religious use of Buddhist visual culture, What is the Use of Buddhist Art? emphasizes the social life of objects within Buddhist communities. The varied uses include messages to those who will encounter the object in its contemporaneous present and distant future. As an example, the Votive Stele, dedicated by Monk Zhilang, dated 548, Eastern Wei dynasty, China, includes an inscription that identifies and celebrates the purpose of creating Buddhist objects and images: “We build stupas to mark our devotion, and we create image to express our dedication to the order.” Other objects such as the lacquered wood Seated Buddha from the late 15th century, Muromachi period, are made for personal devotion, worshipped privately for both worldly and otherworldly benefits. It has traces of gilding suggesting the golden glow it would have emanated in candle-lit sanctuaries. These objects function, within the exhibition context, as individual windows into Buddhist religious belief in practice. What is the Use of Buddhist Art? coincides with the presentation of Object Relations: Indigenous Belongings and Time and Face: Daguerreotypes to Digital Prints. Collectively these exhibitions present more than 150 works of art and cultural heritage objects from Columbia’s Collection of Art Properties. Most on view to the public for the first time, they are a fraction of more than 13,000 objects in the holdings of the collection housed at the Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library. This wide-ranging collection, built over two centuries, has been acquired principally through donations from alumni and faculty, and includes antiquities, cultural heritage objects, and numerous examples of works of art through the twenty-first century. The mission of the collection is to support educational programs, curricular integration, research, and study. What is the Use of Buddhist Art? is supported by Frances Hsinyi Wu and Paul Pao-heng Yin, and the Center for Buddhism and East Asian Religion. The Wallach Art Gallery's exhibition programs are made possible with support from the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Endowment Fund, the Charina Endowment Fund, and the gallery's patrons. The gallery extends special thanks to Jeffrey Hoffeld and an anonymous donor. Maker unknown, Gandhara .The Lokapala Offering Bowls to the Buddha, 2nd–3rd century Date Past Exhibition Curated By D. Max Moerman, Professor, Department of Asian & Middle Eastern Cultures at Barnard College, and Departments of Religion and East Asian Languages & Cultures at Columbia University Share RELATED EVENTS Thursday, February 3, 2022; 6:30 pm WALLACH TALKS | CONSECRATION, INCANTATION, AND MERIT: THREE WAYS TO DO THINGS WITH BUDDHIST ART With D. Max Moerman, Professor and Chair of Asian & Middle Eastern Cultures at Columbia University. Thursday, February 10, 2022; 6:30 pm WALLACH TALKS | BUDDHIST ART IN AND OUT OF TIME With Michelle C. Wang, Associate Professor in the Department of Art and Art History at Georgetown University. Next Exhibition January 20 - March 12, 2022 CHRIS OFILI: THE OTHELLO PRINTS Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Lenfest Center for the Arts, Columbia University 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 1-212-853-1623 · Contact Us · Stay in Touch · The Lenfest Center for the Arts Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment