Menu Mission caret-arrow News caret-arrow People caret-arrow Events caret-arrow Get Involved caret-arrow Search the Warren Center. Search Submit caret-arrow Research caret-arrow Social Norms for Algorithms caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems caret-arrow Evolution, Emergence and the Brain caret-arrow Consensus and Contagion in Society caret-arrow Ubiquity of Data caret-arrow For Affiliates caret-arrow Hosting and Sponsoring caret-arrow Search the Warren Center. Search Submit caret-arrow twitter facebook The Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences The Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences fosters research and innovation in interconnected social, economic and technological systems. Retweet on TwitterThe Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences Retweeted Vijay Kumar@vijay_r_kumar· 2h Very timely - our second online degree program - MSE in data science - launched today. @PennEngineers continues to lower the barrier to entry to high quality education. https://twitter.com/PennEngOnline/status/1532018493842857984 Retweet on TwitterThe Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences Retweeted TTIC@TTIC_Connect· 20h Friday, June 3 at 12:30pm CT: TTIC Colloquium presents Jamie Morgenstern (@jamiemorgenste1) of University of Washington @uwcse with a talk titled "Learning from Multiple Data Sources." Join us in Room 530, or stream live via Panopto: http://ow.ly/IFrQ50JmtYS Retweet on TwitterThe Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences Retweeted ProfGhristMath@robertghrist· 5h 1/ when teaching calculus @ 8:30am, it’s hard to get students to come to class at all, much less on time. this is a thread on how i get students (& myself) to engage… Retweet on TwitterThe Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences Retweeted Benjamin C Lee@Lee_BenjaminC· 31 May Received the 2022 NVMW Persistent Impact Prize for "Architecting phase change memory as a scalable DRAM alternative," which appeared in ISCA 2009. Grateful to have collaborated with Engin Ipek, @_onurmutlu_, and @dcburger. We're in good company! http://nvmw.ucsd.edu/2022/01/19/nvmw-persistent-impact-prize/ About the Center The Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences is an incubator of forward-thinking research, culturally impactful innovation, and potent interdisciplinary collaboration that challenges how the world views technology. High-caliber faculty members from across The University of Pennsylvania have a place to centralize, share and develop their wide range of approaches to network science – from economics to sociology to cryptography and more. Here, the brightest data-centric minds at Penn spearhead collaborative research projects, generating collective solutions from once disparate schools of thought. penn-shield The Warren Center is a part of The University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Read our Mission Statement Featured Event 10 Sep 2021 Economics of Digital Services Inaugural Research Symposium Virtual Event The Economics of Digital Services Inaugural Research Symposium will be held virtually on September 10-11, 2021. This event is by invitation only. Communication Computer and Information Science Economics Law caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems Featured Event 31 Jul 2021 Second Call for Grant Proposals on the Economics of Digital Services The University of Pennsylvania’s Center for Technology, Innovation and Competition and Warren Center for Network and Data Sciences will continue to fund grants supporting research on the economics of digital services. Economics Electrical and Systems Engineering Law caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems Recent News Featured News Economics of Digital Services The Economics of Digital Services is an initiative of CTIC and The Warren Center that promotes research on digital platforms with a focus on empirical studies. EODS has funded 9 research proposals in such areas as cloud competition, advertising, data neutrality, smart contracts, and the effect of search engines on the media industry. Economics Law caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems The changing face of portraiture at Penn Efforts around campus aim to diversify those honored in portraits and rethink how to approach representation through art. Dani Bassett and Junhyong Kim comment on how the walls of campus buildings can better reflect the communities they serve in this Penn Today article. Bioengineering Biology caret-arrow Ubiquity of Data How storytelling can motivate us to help others A new study from Emily Falk’s Communication Neuroscience Lab finds that personal stories—instead of cold facts—make people want to help keep others safe. These findings have significant real-world implications when it comes to planning public health interventions, as they show how messaging can shift an individual’s perspective. Communication Marketing Psychology caret-arrow Consensus and Contagion in Society The Data Will Save Us Or at least, that’s the hope of Wharton professor Duncan Watts, whose new initiative, the Penn Media Accountability Project, aims to expose bias in journalism by building a huge database of news for researchers and journalism watchdogs to analyze. What’s at stake? Only the future of the free press and perhaps democracy itself. Communication Computer and Information Science Operations Information and Decisions caret-arrow Ubiquity of Data Inside the Supply Chain Crisis The worldwide supply chain, so prized for its efficiency, has struggled to withstand the critical disruptions the pandemic caused and to meet the consumer demands created by an almost-overnight reordering of everyday life. Gad Allon comments in this Wharton Magazine article. Operations Information and Decisions caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems See all news Mission caret-arrow News caret-arrow People caret-arrow Events caret-arrow Get Involved caret-arrow Search the Warren Center Search Submit caret-arrow Research caret-arrow Social Norms for Algorithms caret-arrow Resilience in Networked Systems caret-arrow Evolution, Emergence and the Brain caret-arrow Consensus and Contagion in Society caret-arrow Ubiquity of Data caret-arrow For Affiliates caret-arrow Hosting and Sponsoring caret-arrow Search the Warren Center Search Submit caret-arrow The Warren Center for Network & Data Sciences penn-shield The Warren Center is a part of The University of Pennsylvania Contact Us warrenct@seas.upenn.edu 215-573-0861 3401 Walnut Street, 4th floor B/C wings Philadelphia, PA 19104 © 2019 University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science