Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search UC Riverside WASC Reaccreditation Home Accreditation Process Past Accreditation Processes 2018 Accreditation Process 2015 Interim and Mid-Point Report 2010 Accreditation Process 2022 WSCUC Special Visit WASC & UC Links WASC Breadcrumb READ THE 2022 WSCUC SPECIAL VISIT REPORT UCR Mission Statement The University of California, Riverside will transform the lives of the diverse people of California, the nation, and the world through the discovery, communication, translation, application, and preservation of knowledge – thereby enriching the state’s economic, social, cultural, and environmental future. UCR Reaccreditation by Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Senior Commission and University Commission Accreditation is a process aimed at assuring educational institutions meet basic standards of quality and engage with issues of educational effectiveness. Accreditation by one of the regional accreditation commissions also ensures access to federal funds, such as student aid. UCR has been accredited since 1956. Reaccreditation of the campus by WSCUC occurs approximately every six to ten years. UCR’s accreditation was most recently reviewed in 2018 as described in the 2018 Accreditation page. UCR is currently undergoing a Special Visit set for Winter 2022. For information on the Special Visit, please visit our 2022 WSCUC Special Visit page. More detail about the accreditation process in general can be found in the Accreditation Process page. The Associate Provost is UCR's Accreditation Liaison Officer, the official representative of the campus to WSCUC. They can be reached at alo@ucr.edu. Informative UCR Links About UCR Academic Senate Assessment and Evaluation Catalog Chancellor’s Office Provost’s Office Student Affairs Student Life Help@UCR Institutional Research Legal Affairs Planning, Budget & Administration Research and Economic Development Teacher Course Evaluations: iEval Graduate Division Undergraduate Education Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University of California, Riverside 4148 Hinderaker Hall University of California, Riverside Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-6559 email: alo@ucr.edu Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel