Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News For journalists Soundbites and b-roll Soundbites and b-roll Close Menu Home For journalists General UW campus video footage Parking guidelines for media at the UW Soundbites and b-roll UW experts on novel coronavirus (COVID-19) UW media contacts Broadcast-ready soundbites and b-roll produced by UW News are available to download by members of the media. For video-related media inquiries, contact Kiyomi Taguchi at ktaguchi@uw.edu. Video: Experts collaborate to troubleshoot necessary fires and harmful smoke May 24, 2022 Forest fire smoke can make you sick, and we're experiencing more them. In terms of public health, it seems logical to reduce forest fires to limit unhealthy air pollution, but forest managers are increasingly seeing prescribed burning as an essential tool to reduce explosive wildfires. How should we plan to deal with the impacts of… Read more Video: UW students build purifiers that can remove virus particles, other pollutants November 22, 2021 A UW class that normally is about air pollution has pivoted to focus on another airborne health hazard — coronavirus aerosols. As part of the class project, students are designing and building air purifiers and testing how effective they are. Read more Video: Standard time is better for us, UW expert says November 4, 2021 On Sunday, Nov. 7 we switch from daylight saving time to standard time. A University of Washington expert in circadian rhythms says that’s a good thing. Read more Video: Great ShakeOut drill tests new earthquake early warning system October 28, 2021 At 10:21 a.m. on Oct. 21, teacher Wade Johnson's science class at Port Susan Middle School scrambled under their desks as part of the annual Great American ShakeOut. It was Stanwood Camano School District’s first live test of its earthquake early warning system with all 13 of its schools participating in a “Drop, Cover, and… Read more Video: UW students move into residence halls September 24, 2021 Student move-in days are a yearly event at the UW, generating excitement among families and fueled by student volunteers. About 10,000 students living in residence halls for the 2021-2022 academic year are moving in September 21 to 24. Read more Video: Arsenic makes these south Puget Sound fish unsafe to eat September 23, 2021 Researchers at the University of Washington and UW Tacoma have been studying arsenic levels in the mud, water and in creatures from lakes in the south Puget Sound area. Eating contaminated fish or snails from these lakes could lead to health risks. Read more B-roll: Preparations for UW Commencement 2021 June 10, 2021 Purple night time lighting on Drumheller Fountain is just one of many features the UW is adding to its already beautiful campus to provide graduates opportunities to pose for photos with family and friends. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, partners activate earthquake early warnings May 6, 2021 Earthquake early warnings launched May 4 in Washington state. The Pacific Northwest Seismic Network helped develop the system, processes the data for the alerts, and operates hundreds of seismic stations across the state that detect the first signs of an earthquake. Read more UW’s new Mobile Health & Outreach Van will serve community and student experience April 30, 2021 Getting basic health care to medically underserved populations in Seattle, while providing real-world experience for students hoping to practice in a health care field, takes wheels. Now, through a student-led, interdisciplinary effort by health science departments at the University of Washington, those “wheels” — on the new UW Mobile Health & Outreach Van — are… Read more Thousands of baby sea stars born at UW lab are sign of hope for endangered species April 27, 2021 Scientists at the University of Washington, in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, are raising sunflower sea stars in captivity, with the goal of learning more about this species and exploring eventual reintroduction to the wild, if determined to be advisable. Read more Arguing on the internet: UW researchers studying how to make online arguments productive April 19, 2021 UW researchers worked with almost 260 people to understand online disagreements and to develop potential design interventions that could make these discussions more productive and centered around relationship-building. Read more New system that uses smartphone or computer cameras to measure pulse, respiration rate could help future personalized telehealth appointments April 1, 2021 A UW-led team has developed a method that uses the camera on a person's smartphone or computer to take their pulse and breathing rate from a real-time video of their face. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW arborist on cherry blossom viewing tips March 12, 2021 UW arborist Sara Shores recommends looking for cherry blossoms in your local parks and neighborhood streets. There are dozens of different varieties of blossoming cherry and plum trees in the Seattle area, with blooms visible from early February until May, for some species. Read more Can’t solve a riddle? The answer might lie in knowing what doesn’t work March 4, 2021 With the help of about 200 human puzzle-takers, a computer model and functional MRI images, University of Washington researchers have learned more about the processes of reasoning and decision making, pinpointing the brain pathway that springs into action when problem-solving goes south. Read more 'Audeo' teaches artificial intelligence to play the piano February 4, 2021 A UW team created Audeo, a system that can generate music using only visual cues of someone playing the piano. Read more UW installs strikingly unique public sculpture at new Hans Rosling Center for Population Health January 28, 2021 Workers unwrap The Seated IV sculpture by Wangechi Mutu at the Hans Rosling Center for Population Health on Monday, Jan. 25.Mark Stone/University of Washington At nearly 7 feet tall, "The Seated IV" first graced the Metropolitan Museum of Art's facade in September 2019 as part of a commission titled The NewOnes, will free Us. Four "Seated"… Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Detecting COVID-19 in wastewater January 13, 2021 When someone has the coronavirus, some of it is shed in their fecal matter. So what people flush has become useful material to University of Washington researchers who are developing a new testing method for COVID-19 in sewage. Read more New treatment allows some people with spinal cord injury to regain hand and arm function January 12, 2021 Using physical therapy combined with a noninvasive method of stimulating nerve cells in the spinal cord, University of Washington researchers helped six Seattle area participants regain some hand and arm mobility. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW students join vaccination effort December 20, 2020 Journalists: download this video here. Keely Robinson (UW nursing student), Kendra Nguyen (UW pharmacy student) and Emily Wang (UW pharmacy student) talk about being a student and their role in upcoming COVID-19 vaccination clinics. ### Kiyomi Taguchi ktaguchi@uw.edu / 206-685-2716 Read more The Smellicopter is an obstacle-avoiding drone that uses a live moth antenna to seek out smells December 7, 2020 A team led by the UW has developed Smellicopter: an autonomous drone that uses a live antenna from a moth to navigate toward smells. Smellicopter can also sense and avoid obstacles as it travels through the air. Read more B-roll: UW welcomes back Tent City 3 for winter quarter 2021 November 14, 2020 Download this B-roll here. The University of Washington welcomes back Tent City 3 — an organized tent-city community — to its Seattle campus for 90 days during winter quarter 2021. Move-in is scheduled to begin Dec. 19. The UW previously hosted Tent City 3 in winter 2017, in the same location it will be… Read more Video: Highlights from UW President Ana Mari Cauce's annual address October 14, 2020 UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivered her annual address to the community Oct. 12 at wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House on the University of Washington campus. Highlights of the speech are reflected in this video. The audience was entirely virtual this year in accordance with public health guidelines. Read more Soundbites: UW researchers examine deceptive ads on news websites September 28, 2020 In this video: Franziska Roesner, associate professor in the Allen School Eric Zeng, graduate research assistant in the Allen School Journalists: download soundbites here With the election season ramping up, political ads are being splashed across the web. In the age of misinformation, how can news consumers tell if the ads they're seeing are legitimate? USA… Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW students move into residence halls September 22, 2020 University of Washington students living in residence halls began moving in on Tuesday, and about 4,000 students total will move in this week. This number is less than half the UW’s normal residence hall capacity. Read more B-roll: UW Health Sciences Education Building breaks ground August 31, 2020 UW Health Sciences leadership and Washington state legislators celebrated the start of construction of the Health Sciences Education Building with a small, physically distanced groundbreaking ceremony Aug. 27. Read more Soundbites: UW epidemiologist says face masks can be a tool for community health July 31, 2020 Face coverings will continue to be an important and effective tool in combating the spread of COVID-19, public health experts say. Read more Soundbites: UW public health experts on benefits of face coverings June 25, 2020 Beginning June 26, face coverings will be required statewide in Washington. Hilary Godwin, dean of the UW School of Public Health, offers some practical information about using masks to slow the spread of COVID-19. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW's 2020 virtual commencement June 13, 2020 More than 18,000 new University of Washington graduates were recognized in a first-ever online ceremony Saturday. All three UW campuses held a joint event that was broadcast around the globe and watched by thousands of graduates and their families in more than 40 countries. Read more Soundbites: UW dean of public health gives advice on where and how (and how not) to wear masks May 18, 2020 Beginning May 18, King County is directing people to wear face coverings in most public settings. Expert Hilary Godwin answers questions about the directive and shares information about using face coverings. Read more B-roll: RV Thomas G. Thompson comes home May 11, 2020 The UW’s large research vessel, the RV Thomas G. Thompson, returned May 8 to its home port after more than two years exploring the world’s oceans. A scheduled cruise in Tahiti has been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, so the return is roughly two months earlier than planned. Read more Local response to UW social isolation study leads to national effort April 10, 2020 With most states now under stay-at-home orders, UW researchers have launched a national study to test whether a motivational, mental health tip each day changes participants’ behavior during social distancing, and improves their mental and relational health. Read more Soundbites: Law professor Hugh Spitzer on regulating human movement March 23, 2020 UW law professor Hugh Spitzer speaks to the power of state and local governments as officials consider measures to restrict movement to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Instructor Rick Mohler's architecture class goes online March 9, 2020 Rick Mohler, associate professor of architecture in the College of Built Environments, is now teaching his classes using Zoom. His architecture classes usually meet in person, but were conducted entirely online Monday. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Marissa Baker on workplace disease exposure March 9, 2020 A University of Washington researcher calculates that 14.4 million workers face exposure to infection once a week and 26.7 million at least once a month in the workplace, pointing to an important population needing protection. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW rural nursing program March 3, 2020 On March 3, Premera Blue Cross announced a $4.7 million grant to the University of Washington to establish the Rural Nursing Health Initiative to place current students in rural practices in Washington state. Read more Premera Blue Cross teams with the UW to establish rural nursing program March 3, 2020 Premera Blue Cross, a leading health plan in the Pacific Northwest, today announced a $4.7 million grant to the University of Washington to establish the Rural Nursing Health Initiative to place current students in rural practices in Washington state. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Minimum wage and health February 11, 2020 A UW study found that increases in minimum wages primarily had no effect on health overall. However, they did find a mix of negative and positive effects associated with the health of certain groups of working-age people. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: UW expert answers questions about the novel coronavirus pandemic February 7, 2020 Dr. Judith Wasserheit, chair of the UW Department of Global Health in the School of Public Health and part of the UW MetaCenter for Pandemic Preparedness and Global Health Security, answers questions about the novel coronavirus outbreak, its spread, the level of concern and how to best protect yourself. For journalists Download soundbites and b-roll… Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Altruistic babies February 5, 2020 For journalists Download soundbites and b-roll New research by the University of Washington’s Institute for Learning & Brain Sciences, or I-LABS, finds that altruism may begin in infancy. In a study of nearly 100 19-month-olds, researchers found that children, even when hungry, gave a tasty snack to a stranger in need. The findings not… Read more Soundbites & b-roll: UW President Ana Mari Cauce addresses World Economic Forum in Davos: 'Free to Be (LGBTI)' January 22, 2020 University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce participated in a “must-watch” panel, “Free to Be (LGBTI)“, Jan. 22 at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Read more Soundbites & b-roll: HuskySat-1 November 5, 2019 'HuskySat-1' is among seven student-built satellites from around the country that launched Saturday morning, Nov. 2, from NASA's Wallops Flight Facility on the Virginia coast. Read more Soundbites and b-roll: UW Annual President's Address 2019 October 16, 2019 UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivered her annual address to the community Oct. 15 at wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House on the University of Washington campus. Read more Soundbites & B-roll: Pop-up gallery portrays homelessness with animals October 7, 2019 The University of Washington Center for One Health Research will build “pop-up galleries” in public spaces around Seattle in October that will use autobiographical photographs taken by people experiencing homelessness with their companion animals. The photos will be accompanied by quotes from the participants about the challenges and the important bonds they share with their… Read more Soundbites: UW convocation 2019 September 23, 2019 Convocation welcomes the entering class and officially marks the beginning of the academic year, with classes starting Sept. 25. More than 6,000 people were expected to attend this year’s event. Read more Soundbites: 2019 move-in days for Huskies September 20, 2019 The University of Washington is welcoming nearly 10,000 students who will live on campus this fall during Husky move-in days Sept. 18-20. Read more B-roll: UW Population Health Building topping out August 2, 2019 The University of Washington today announced the topping out of the new $230 million Population Health Building. The UW also has selected two artists whose work will help tell the story of the education and research that will take place within the new facility. Construction of the eight-story building at the corner of 15th Avenue Northeast and… Read more Soundbites: UW hosts student robotics 'moon landing' challenge July 30, 2019 A robotics challenge July 20th at the UW featured twenty-eight teams of middle and high schoolers from Forks to Walla Walla and from Bellingham to Olympia. The event marked a half-century since the Apollo 11 mission landed on the moon and two U.S. astronauts, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, walked its surface. Read more B-roll: Middle school students study mechanics, gravity at UW engineering camp July 11, 2019 Sixty middle school students from all over Washington state came for a week-long camp on the UW campus in late June. The camp, which is part of the Early Learning Institute, culminated in a chance to improve the basic design of a toy-sized "gravity car." Read more B-roll: Karen Fredriksen Goldsen and the GenPride Center June 24, 2019 The GenPride Center is the first and only multipurpose LGBTQ senior center in Seattle and King County. It was founded by Karen Fredriksen Goldsen, a University of Washington professor of social work, with the goal of combating social isolation experienced by many LGBTQ older adults. Read more Soundbites: UW Commencement 2019 June 18, 2019 More than 6,000 graduates attended the University of Washington's 144th commencement ceremonies held June 15 at Husky Stadium. UW President Ana Mari Cauce presided as nearly 13,795 degrees were conferred. Read more Soundbites: Graham Pruss on vehicle residency June 4, 2019 Graham Pruss has been researching vehicle residency in Seattle for nearly a decade. He established the methodology for counting the vehicle-resident population for All Home’s annual point-in-time count, conducted on one night each January. Read more Soundbites: UW marching band says thank you to Grant County June 4, 2019 The Husky Marching Band returned to central Washington June 2 to say thank you to the Grant County community after a bus crash there last Thanksgiving. Read more Soundbites: Engineering Discovery Days April 26, 2019 Engineering Discovery Days is a yearly event that invites Washington state fourth- through eighth-graders to have fun leaning about STEM with the College of Engineering. Read more Soundbites: UW Esports Arena & Gaming Lounge opens April 19, 2019 The UW celebrated the opening of an esports center with a ribbon cutting ceremony April 18. Read more Soundbites: UW Quad cherry blossoms reach peak bloom March 29, 2019 UW arborist Sara Shores explains that the iconic cherry trees in the University of Washington’s Quad have reached peak bloom, and this weekend will be prime viewing to see the blossoms. Read more Soundbites: Snow may have delayed some blooms for the first day of spring March 20, 2019 The first day of spring, when daylight hours begin to exceed nighttime hours, seems especially significant this year -- record warm temperatures in the Northwest are marking the change of seasons. But our blooms may be a couple weeks behind schedule after February’s snow and cold weather. Read more Home For journalists General UW campus video footage Parking guidelines for media at the UW Soundbites and b-roll UW experts on novel coronavirus (COVID-19) UW media contacts General campus footage Watch and download QUICK LINKS Latest news releases UW fast facts Experts Filming on campus Parking on campus Public Records and Open Public Meetings Search UW News Search for: Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA