Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports UW News Menu About COVID-19 Stories UW Medicine stories Media coverage Experts for journalists FAQ Stories All stories News releases UW News blog UW Notebook Official notices UW in the media Multimedia Video stories Soundbites/b-roll Interactives Experts Directory Expert quotes COVID-19 experts Speakers Bureau Media contacts For Journalists For researchers Media Training Data and Reports Home UW News Video stories Video stories With EcoCAR, UW students experience post-COVID camaraderie under the hood of a hybrid vehicle May 26, 2022 With the EcoCAR Mobility Challenge, UW students modified a 2019 Chevrolet Blazer to use electrification, advanced propulsion systems and automated vehicle technology. It’s an opportunity for students — across four years — to take a car from design to a consumer-ready product. Read more Video: Alexes Harris draws attention to low representation of people of color in bone marrow registry May 26, 2022 In 2016, Alexes Harris was diagnosed with a rare blood cancer. But a search for a bone marrow donor turned up only five matches, and none ended up being a donor. People of color are underrepresented in the bone marrow registry; according to Be The Match, the nation’s largest bone marrow registry, white people have… Read more Video: Experts collaborate to troubleshoot necessary fires and harmful smoke May 24, 2022 Forest fire smoke can make you sick, and we're experiencing more them. In terms of public health, it seems logical to reduce forest fires to limit unhealthy air pollution, but forest managers are increasingly seeing prescribed burning as an essential tool to reduce explosive wildfires. How should we plan to deal with the impacts of… Read more Video: Rubbish is reborn as 'Trash Art' in unique contest April 1, 2022 Bottle tops, face masks and dog hair — these are all items usually destined for the dumpster. But UW Recycling came up with a unique art contest that takes waste from garbage to gallery. Read more Video: New face mask guidance for UW's 2022 spring quarter March 30, 2022 With the start of spring quarter on March 28, face masks became optional — but still recommended — inside most UW facilities. In light of the policy change, UW News spoke with several experts about what to expect on campus, how the current science and transmission rates inform our policy, and emotions and feelings we… Read more UW welcomes community to view cherry blossoms; peak bloom expected mid-March March 10, 2022 The 29 cherry trees in the Quad usually reach peak bloom the third week of March, and this year is on track to meet that timing. Read more Multi-state study of monetary sanctions finds widespread inequities, far-reaching consequences March 2, 2022 Alexes Harris, professor of sociology at the University of Washington, discusses her team's five-year, eight-state study of legal financial obligations, and their findings that court-imposed fines and fees perpetuate inequality. Read more Faculty programs welcome most diverse cohort in recent UW history February 16, 2022 Angélica Amezcua never thought she’d achieve a doctoral degree, never mind landing a tenure-track job at the University of Washington. Raised in Mexico, she moved to California when she was 11, and she’s the first in her family to earn a Ph. D. She once believed that a career in academia was unattainable due to… Read more Video: UW News 2021 highlights December 17, 2021 As the year draws to a close, we present highlights from video stories produced by UW News during 2021 — a year where the COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact our lives. Read more Video: Modeling how debris affects buildings during a tsunami December 13, 2021 Researchers are modeling how tsunami debris pushes on a building — either by hitting it or getting lodged on it and creating a dam. They are also looking for patterns in the way floating debris moves around and against rigid shapes. The information may help in designing buildings in coastal communities that can better withstand… Read more Video: Peer Health Educators help students meet life's challenges December 9, 2021 Who do you talk to when you have a problem? For a student, it's most likely a friend. Because young people tend to talk first to someone in their peer group, UW's LiveWell created a Peer Health Education program where trained students teach other students about taking care of themselves and each other. Read more Video: UW students build purifiers that can remove virus particles, other pollutants November 22, 2021 A UW class that normally is about air pollution has pivoted to focus on another airborne health hazard — coronavirus aerosols. As part of the class project, students are designing and building air purifiers and testing how effective they are. Read more Video: UW pauses to recognize those with military service November 11, 2021 The University of Washington's annual Veterans Day ceremony, held on Thursday at the Medal of Honor Memorial near Red Square, featured music by the Husky Marching Band and a formation of UW Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) cadets. Read more Video: Standard time is better for us, UW expert says November 4, 2021 On Sunday, Nov. 7 we switch from daylight saving time to standard time. A University of Washington expert in circadian rhythms says that’s a good thing. Read more Video: UW Farm's Perry Acworth talks about pumpkins large and small October 28, 2021 Perry Acworth, UW Farm manager, talks about different varieties of winter squash — from the palm-sized pie pumpkin to Cucurbita maxima, which can produce giant pumpkins. Read more Video: Great ShakeOut drill tests new earthquake early warning system October 28, 2021 At 10:21 a.m. on Oct. 21, teacher Wade Johnson's science class at Port Susan Middle School scrambled under their desks as part of the annual Great American ShakeOut. It was Stanwood Camano School District’s first live test of its earthquake early warning system with all 13 of its schools participating in a “Drop, Cover, and… Read more Video: Highlights from 2021 Annual President's Address October 20, 2021 UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivered her 2021 annual address, sharing her perspective on the road ahead as we work together to recover from the pandemic and support equity and well-being for our community of faculty, staff and students. Read more UW Resilience Lab aims to change campus culture toward compassion and mindfulness October 11, 2021 Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Academic Affairs Ed Taylor chats with Director of the UW Resilience Lab Megan Kennedy about how students, faculty and staff can create a more supportive, compassionate environment in which to learn and discover as the University of Washington community comes back to the campuses and recovers from the traumas… Read more New Student Convocation on Tuesday afternoon opens UW’s 2021-22 academic year September 27, 2021 University of Washington Associate Professor Wendy Barrington will be the featured speaker at the university’s 38th annual New Student Convocation. Barrington has joint appointments in the Department of Child, Family, and Population Health Nursing in the School of Nursing and the departments of Epidemiology and of Health Systems and Population Health in the School of… Read more Video: UW students move into residence halls September 24, 2021 Student move-in days are a yearly event at the UW, generating excitement among families and fueled by student volunteers. About 10,000 students living in residence halls for the 2021-2022 academic year are moving in September 21 to 24. Read more Video: Arsenic makes these south Puget Sound fish unsafe to eat September 23, 2021 Researchers at the University of Washington and UW Tacoma have been studying arsenic levels in the mud, water and in creatures from lakes in the south Puget Sound area. Eating contaminated fish or snails from these lakes could lead to health risks. Read more Get to know the UW campus with Indigenous Walking Tour September 22, 2021 During his senior year, Owen Oliver created a walking tour of UW’s Seattle campus, highlighting the Indigenous presence on campus. Read more UW campus prepares for return to in-person classes, activities September 10, 2021 It’s been about 18 months since the University of Washington led the nation in pivoting to largely online learning and working as the COVID-19 pandemic took hold. Read more Video: A visit to Mt. Baker's Easton Glacier July 30, 2021 This week, a few members of our UW News team joined glaciologists from the UW Department of Earth & Space Sciences on a trip to Mt. Baker. Students that came along got to chat with their professor on the hike up, and we learned about how the recent heat wave impacted the snow melt on… Read more Video: scientist tests soil for hidden contaminants in community gardens July 28, 2021 Soil, particularly in urban areas, can hold contaminants that are unhealthy for people who handle it or eat things grown in the ground. Chemicals left behind by vehicles, air pollution and heavy industry can show up in the ground and in plants. Melanie Malone, assistant professor in UW Bothell’s School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences… Read more Ahead of Pride, UW’s Manish Chalana describes the changing neighborhood of Capitol Hill June 23, 2021 Development has changed the face of the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Seattle, says Manish Chalana, associate professor of urban design and planning at the University of Washington, but it remains the heart of the city's LGBTQ community. Read more Video: Mobile health van student volunteers collaborate in service to the community June 15, 2021 This summer a UW mobile health outreach van will hit the road, bringing some basic health care services to people without housing who might have a hard time getting to a doctor’s office. Read more Video: UW commencement 2021 highlights June 15, 2021 The University of Washington’s second virtual commencement was held June 12, 2021. The online ceremony, the second in the school’s 161-year history, celebrated the Class of 2021 with graduates and their families and friends watching the ceremony from more than 30 countries with translations in nine languages. Read more Anticipation builds for UW’s 146th commencement, to be held virtually June 3, 2021 Drumheller Fountain is turning purple. The iconic University of Washington landmark will be illuminated in the school’s signature color from dusk to dawn as the anticipation builds for the June 12 commencement ceremonies. The special accent lighting is just one of many features the UW is adding to its already beautiful campus to provide graduates… Read more Video: Suzzallo bonsai a symbol of peace, resilience and inclusiveness May 27, 2021 The potted junipers on the steps of Suzzallo Library are undergoing a transformation. Flanking the entrance to one of UW's most beloved buildings, they are viewed by hundreds of people walking through Red Square each week. Bioengineering postdoctoral researcher Le Zhen is transforming these shrubs into bonsai — miniature trees that are pruned, nurtured and… Read more Earthquake early warnings launch in Washington, completing West Coast-wide ShakeAlert system May 3, 2021 The U.S. Geological Survey, the University of Washington-based Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, and state emergency managers on Tuesday, May 4, will activate the system that sends earthquake early warnings throughout Washington state. This completes the rollout of ShakeAlert, an automated system that gives people living in Washington, Oregon and California advance warning of incoming earthquakes. Read more Thousands of baby sea stars born at UW lab are sign of hope for endangered species April 27, 2021 Scientists at the University of Washington, in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, are raising sunflower sea stars in captivity, with the goal of learning more about this species and exploring eventual reintroduction to the wild, if determined to be advisable. Read more Oral history project captures Washingtonians’ pandemic experiences April 20, 2021 Manuel S. Martinez, a lifelong campesino, trabajador and community organizer, recalls the beginning of the pandemic. Interviewed by UW student Adriana Martinez. Zoom, masks, family and politics — these are some of the lasting memories shared by participants in a University of Washington student oral history project. Undergraduate seniors in the Public Health Global Health major at… Read more Video: Tasty options as researchers tap a new forestry product March 25, 2021 Scientists from the University of Washington are testing the viability of making maple syrup in the Pacific Northwest. Long associated with Canada or Vermont, this sweet forest product that has graced many a breakfast table may be part of this region’s future. Read more Watch the UW cherry blossoms virtually this year and avoid coming to campus due to COVID-19 March 8, 2021 The University of Washington once again is asking people to enjoy the iconic campus cherry blossoms virtually this year to promote physical distancing and safety during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Read more Video: UW students join the front lines of the vaccination effort March 4, 2021 By the end of February, around 350 UW students had signed up to be volunteer vaccinators in clinics from Tacoma to Marysville. Read more Video: You’ve heard of garage bands — now you can hear the ‘UW garage chorale’ February 26, 2021 The University of Washington Chorale has found an unlikely place to practice. Once a week, 8 of the 60 member singing group meets, standing 6 feet apart, in a campus parking garage for 30 precious minutes. Despite the sounds of passing cars and some machinery whirring nearby, the sound they can make together - in… Read more List of 1,000 inspiring Black scientists includes seven from UW February 10, 2021 Seven University of Washington scientists are included in Cell Mentor’s list of 1,000 inspiring Black scientists, published in December 2020. Cell Mentor is a collaborative resource between Cell Press and Cell Signaling Technology. Read more On nights before a full moon, people go to bed later and sleep less, study shows January 27, 2021 Sleep cycles in people oscillate during the 29.5-day lunar cycle: In the days leading up to a full moon, people go to sleep later in the evening and sleep for shorter periods of time. The team, led by researchers at the University of Washington, observed these variations in both the time of sleep onset and… Read more Video: Detecting COVID-19 in wastewater January 12, 2021 When someone has the coronavirus, some of it is shed in their fecal matter. So what we flush has become useful to UW researchers developing a new testing method for COVID-19 in sewage. They're looking at wastewater that flows from people's homes, sampling it at manholes and neighborhood pump stations before it goes to sewage… Read more New treatment allows some people with spinal cord injury to regain hand and arm function January 12, 2021 Using physical therapy combined with a noninvasive method of stimulating nerve cells in the spinal cord, University of Washington researchers helped six Seattle area participants regain some hand and arm mobility. Read more Video: News and research highlights from 2020 December 28, 2020 As the year draws to a close, we present highlights from video stories produced by UW News during 2020 — a year that will be largely defined by the COVID-19 pandemic and the many ways it impacted our lives and work. Read more NSF-funded deep ice core to be drilled at Hercules Dome, Antarctica December 8, 2020 Antarctica’s next deep ice core, a 1.5-mile core reaching back to 130,000-year-old ice, will be carried out by a multi-institutional U.S. team led by UW's Eric Steig. The site hundreds of miles from today’s coastline could provide clues to the most recent collapse of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. Read more The Smellicopter is an obstacle-avoiding drone that uses a live moth antenna to seek out smells December 7, 2020 A team led by the UW has developed Smellicopter: an autonomous drone that uses a live antenna from a moth to navigate toward smells. Smellicopter can also sense and avoid obstacles as it travels through the air. Read more Tire-related chemical is largely responsible for adult coho salmon deaths in urban streams December 3, 2020 A team led by researchers at UW Tacoma, UW and Washington State University Puyallup has discovered a chemical that kills coho salmon in urban streams before the fish can spawn. Read more Video: Free coronavirus testing for UW community open for more enrollment November 2, 2020 The Husky Coronavirus Testing program, powered by the Seattle Flu Study, launched on Sept. 24 and now has more than 12,500 members of the UW community enrolled and has conducted more than 10,000 tests. Read more Video: Local stream watchers add to salmon science October 20, 2020 This fall, about three dozen people signed up to help count the salmon in their local streams and creeks. Recruited by University of Washington Bothell teaching professor Jeff Jensen, these volunteers agree to observe a stream location for at least half an hour per week (while taking coronavirus precautions) to gather vital information about salmon in streams that flow into Lake Washington and… Read more Video: Highlights from UW President Ana Mari Cauce's annual address October 14, 2020 UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivered her annual address to the community Oct. 12 at wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House on the University of Washington campus. Highlights of the speech are reflected in this video. The audience was entirely virtual this year in accordance with public health guidelines. Read more Video: Using 'Street View' to track pandemic in Seattle over time October 5, 2020 As the city of Seattle shut down in March 2020 to try to slow the spread of COVID-19, a group of University of Washington researchers decided to track how the city would react. Read more UW’s 37th annual New Student Convocation goes online September 27, 2020 University of Washington faculty member Ian Schnee, associate teaching professor in the Department of Philosophy, was the featured speaker at the UW’s 37th annual New Student Convocation. The virtual ceremony was held Sept. 27 and was livestreamed to audiences around the world. A recording is available here. Read more Video: ‘Art game’ looks at the pandemic through an artist’s eye September 24, 2020 Chanhee Choi is creating a digital art game called "Pandemic," a vehicle for her thoughts and experiences since the beginning of the coronavirus crisis. Read more Video: UW students move into residence halls September 23, 2020 Around 4,000 students are moving into the residence halls at the University of Washington this week. This number is less than half the UW’s normal residence hall capacity. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a number of special precautions are being taken to ensure minimal contact and proper physical distancing during the move-in process. Read more Video: How to make your own home air purifier September 15, 2020 With wildfire smoke blanketing most of the western U.S. this week, public health experts suggest staying inside as much as possible to protect yourself from smoky air. If you don't have air conditioning or an air purifier in your home, it's possible to make your own inexpensive purifier. Here's how. Read more Fighting fire with fire in the Methow Valley September 3, 2020 Agencies that are well practiced in putting out wildfires are now learning a new skill: how to set the spark and fan the flames. That's the case for the state Department of Natural Resources, which is starting to use prescribed burning as part of its strategy for fighting wildfires. Read more UW breaks ground on the future of health sciences education and improving our health August 28, 2020 Attending the ceremonial ground breaking of the new Health Sciences Education Building on UW's Seattle campus Thursday, Aug. 27, were (left to right) Dean Edwina Uehara, School of Social Work; Dean Sean D. Sullivan, School of Pharmacy; Executive Dean Azita Emami, School of Nursing; Dean Gary Chiodo, School of Dentistry; and Dean Hilary Godwin, School… Read more Video: Meet the real-life kraken: the octopus July 30, 2020 Seattle’s new hockey team is named for a legendary creature of the sea, and that’s a perfect fit, according to octopus researchers at the University of Washington. Read more Video: Face coverings an important tool to fight COVID-19 July 30, 2020 Face coverings will continue to be an important and effective tool in combating the spread of COVID-19. Read more Video: Students create videos, capping new UW class on music as a form of protest June 23, 2020 With the nation debating its response to COVID-19 and witnessing protests against racial injustice and police violence, undergraduate students enrolled in “Visual Anthropology of Protest Music” examined how communities use music to share their lived experiences and confront oppression. Read more Video: Virtual classes offer fitness and mindfulness at home June 17, 2020 Fitness, dance and mindfulness instructors are teaching virtual classes in light of COVID-19 closures, part of UW Recreation's effort to make its activities accessible while people are physically distancing during the pandemic. Read more Video: UW’s 145th commencement is held virtually June 13, 2020 More than 18,000 new University of Washington graduates were recognized in a first-ever online ceremony Saturday, June 13. All three UW campuses held a joint event that was broadcast around the globe and watched by thousands of graduates and their families in more than 40 countries. Read more Video: Health care workers march to protest racism as a public health risk June 9, 2020 Thousands of doctors, nurses, health care workers and public health experts from the University of Washington and other medical institutions turned out in downtown Seattle on June 6 to demand an end to systemic racism and calling for police reform. Read more Video: How cloth face masks protect people during the pandemic May 22, 2020 The dean of the UW School of Public Health shares information about using face coverings, including what kinds of masks are appropriate to wear and how they protect people. Read more B-roll: RV Thomas G. Thompson comes home May 11, 2020 The UW’s large research vessel, the RV Thomas G. Thompson, returned May 8 to its home port after more than two years exploring the world’s oceans. A scheduled cruise in Tahiti has been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, so the return is roughly two months earlier than planned. Read more Sleep difficulties in the first year of life linked to altered brain development in infants who later develop autism May 7, 2020 New research led by the University of Washington finds that sleep problems in a baby’s first 12 months may not only precede an autism diagnosis, but also may be associated with altered growth trajectory in a key part of the brain, the hippocampus. Read more Face masks sewn for UW housing, dining, custodial staff April 23, 2020 A team of staff and students are sewing masks and offering them for free to UW housing, custodial, dining and food service workers. Read more Dose of nature at home could help mental health, well-being during COVID-19 April 16, 2020 In light of stay-at-home orders, University of Washington researchers say studies show there is much to be gained from nature close to home, whether in a yard, on neighborhood walks or even indoors. Read more 'Hands-on' classes online? How some instructors are adapting to a new teaching environment April 16, 2020 When the UW announced it was moving its spring quarter 2020 classes entirely online to combat the novel coronavirus, instructors across campus faced a new, uncharted challenge. Read more How families can use technology to juggle childcare and remote life April 14, 2020 UW researchers are beginning a national study to help families discover technology that helps them both successfully navigate home-based learning and combat social isolation. Read more UW’s 3D printed COVID-19 face shields: From innovation to delivery April 13, 2020 When the first U.S. COVID-19 patient emerged in Washington, UW Medicine, as the state’s foremost provider of advanced medical care, was thrust into the role of trailblazer. Its clinicians and researchers have since mustered a speedy and sometimes ingenious response. Read more Huskies rally to support COVID-19 need for masks, child care April 3, 2020 On a typical day, Julianne Dalcanton is an astrophysicist, studying the far reaches of the universe. These aren’t typical days. Across the University of Washington, faculty, staff, clinicians and students are stepping forward in a variety of ways to support the COVID-19 response, particularly efforts to help front-line medical personnel. Read more Laptops for takeout or delivery: Student technology program readies for spring quarter March 27, 2020 With the university’s spring quarter beginning Monday, UW staff and student workers in the Student Technology Loan Program spent the week-long spring break gathering, checking and cleaning some 300 laptops and tablets for distribution – and, for the first time, shipping many of those devices to the homes of UW students across the country. Read more Video: UW custodial staff in the midst of massive 'deep clean' of campus March 23, 2020 When the UW moved to online instruction March 9, UW Facilities Services developed a three-week disinfection plan. Custodial staff are now working through more than 500 classrooms, lecture halls, libraries, auditoriums and shared spaces, with similar efforts under way in Bothell and Tacoma. Read more ‘It’s a good test’: UW faculty, students adjust to an online end to the quarter, prepare for spring March 17, 2020 This wasn’t how LaShawnDa Pittman expected to give her final exam review: At her kitchen table, laptop open, coffee cup at the ready, her 12-year-old Chihuahua named Espresso by her side. But as the first week of the University of Washington’s shift to online classes drew to a close, Pittman, an assistant professor of American… Read more Video: An architecture class goes online March 11, 2020 Rick Mohler, associate professor of architecture, meets with his Research Design Studio students online. Normally a hands-on class with poster-size drawings and tabletop scale models, Mohler's design studio has shifted to the small screen. Read more Video: President Cauce on the decision to end in-person classes for the quarter March 6, 2020 University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce sat down with Vice President of Student Life Denzil Suite for a candid conversation about how COVID-19 is affecting campus operations, why classes will no longer meet in person for the rest of the quarter and whether a student-led petition had an impact on the decision. Read more Press conference: University of Washington's response to COVID-19 March 6, 2020 The University of Washington held a press conference at 12:30 p.m. Friday, March 6, 2020 to address the decision to move classes online in an effort to limit the spread of the COVID-19 outbreak, and address the UW staff member who received a presumptive positive test result. Read more President Cauce, Dr. Geoff Gottlieb discuss UW COVID-19 response at ASUW senate meeting March 5, 2020 University of Washington President Ana Mari Cauce, joined by Dr. Geoff Gottlieb, head of the UW’s Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases, met with the members of the ASUW Student Senate on March 3 to share the most current information and take questions about the University’s response and preparations for the novel coronavirus. Read more Premera Blue Cross teams with the UW to establish rural nursing program March 3, 2020 Premera Blue Cross, a leading health plan in the Pacific Northwest, today announced a $4.7 million grant to the University of Washington to establish the Rural Nursing Health Initiative to place current students in rural practices in Washington state. Read more Video: Warming Arctic means less ice, bigger waves February 27, 2020 Throughout the month of November 2019, a team of University of Washington researchers chased storms in the Arctic Ocean. The project, Coastal Ocean Dynamics in the Arctic, or CODA, is looking at how water currents shift and waves hit the coast with more open water, to provide better forecasts and predictions for the region’s future. Read more Video: UW's new broadcast meteorology course is first on West Coast January 30, 2020 The University of Washington has long boasted one of the country's top programs in atmospheric sciences. Now, the UW is also teaching undergraduates how to share that knowledge online and on TV as a broadcast meteorologist. Read more A foundation for ‘safe motherhood’ created with and for the Somali community January 21, 2020 On a recent Saturday evening, a dozen women gathered around a table at a community room in the White Center neighborhood of Seattle, settling in with snacks and conversation. The evening’s program would be more education than entertainment, an opportunity to discuss topics so sensitive that, without the group of women assembled that night, might… Read more By the numbers: UW in the media in 2019 January 9, 2020 In 2019, the University of Washington was mentioned in 4,143 news articles around the world. Among those, UW experts were quoted 2,290 times: 1,185 in national or international outlets and 1,105 in regional and local outlets. Read more Video: Highlights from 2019 December 18, 2019 As 2019 draws to a close, we present highlights from video stories produced by the UW News team — selections from architecture to zoology, and everything in between Read more Video: Barrels of ancient Antarctic air aim to track history of rare gas December 12, 2019 An Antarctic field campaign last winter led by the U.S. and Australia has successfully extracted some of the largest samples of air dating from the 1870s until today. Researchers will use the samples to look for changes in the molecules that scrub the atmosphere of methane and other gases. Read more Washington's first student-built satellite preparing for launch October 31, 2019 After years of preparation, a tiny satellite built by UW students is scheduled to launch early Saturday, Nov. 2, from a NASA flight facility in Virginia. The launch will be broadcast live on NASA TV. Read more Precision mapping with satellite, drone photos could help predict infections of a widespread tropical disease October 28, 2019 A team led by the University of Washington and Stanford University has discovered clues in the environment that help identify transmission hotspots for schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease that is second only to malaria in its global health impact. Read more Video: Spider myths, facts from the Burke Museum's spider expert October 28, 2019 This video features Rod Crawford, the curator of arachnids at the University of Washington's Burke Museum. He has spent decades studying spiders and says there are many common myths about spiders that he is regularly asked about. Read more Video: UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivers annual address to community October 16, 2019 UW President Ana Mari Cauce delivered her annual address to the community Oct. 15 at wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷ – Intellectual House on the University of Washington campus. Read more Pop-up galleries and data: Visualizing the lives of homeless people and their animals October 7, 2019 Adam and Chief taking a rest after playing ball along the Elliot Bay trail before finding a place to sleep for the night. Adam & Chief wrote: “I don’t think I’ve ever had a dog that I could just give away because I became homeless. However, you have to make that a priority. Every single second… Read more Video: New UW students welcomed at 2019 convocation September 23, 2019 Convocation welcomes the entering class and officially marks the beginning of the academic year. UW classes begin Sept. 25. More than 6,000 people were expected to attend this year’s event. Read more Video: 2019 move-in days for campus Huskies September 20, 2019 The University of Washington welcomed nearly 10,000 students during Husky move-in days Sept. 18-20. Read more Video: Wildfires west of the Cascades: Rare, but large and severe August 23, 2019 More than 99 percent of wildfires in the last 40 years have been east of the Cascade Crest. But evidence that suggests Western Washington also has a history of large wildfires, each burning hundreds of thousands of acres. We might not be familiar with them, because most happened centuries ago. Read more How ergonomic is your warehouse job? Soon, an app might be able to tell you August 19, 2019 Researchers at the UW have used machine learning to develop a new system that can monitor factory and warehouse workers and tell them how ergonomic their jobs are in real time. Read more Video: UW hosts student robotics 'moon landing' challenge July 30, 2019 A robotics challenge July 20th at the UW featured twenty-eight teams of middle and high schoolers from Forks to Walla Walla and from Bellingham to Olympia. The event marked a half-century since the Apollo 11 mission landed on the moon and two U.S. astronauts, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin, walked its surface. Read more Video: 'Pickled' sharks from the UW Burke Museum fish collection July 17, 2019 The Burke Museum at the University of Washington has North America's largest fish collection that includes a number of sharks, including many species that live in Pacific Northwest waters. Read more Video: Friend or foe? Fun facts about sharks July 12, 2019 In honor of Shark Awareness Day on July 14, UW News sat down with Katherine Maslenikov, manager of the UW Fish Collection, to learn about sharks in the Pacific Northwest and other fun facts about sharks. Read more Creating community, battling loneliness among LGBTQ seniors June 24, 2019 Research shows that LGBTQ older adults are at higher risk for social isolation. To that end, UW social work professor Karen Fredriksen Goldsen helped establish an LGBTQ senior center in Seattle. Read more Video: Surprising discoveries in coral reefs found in low-light waters June 20, 2019 Jacqueline Padilla-Gamiño, an assistant professor in the UW School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, spent up to eight hours at a time in the cramped quarters of a submersible watercraft, studying the largest known coral reef in the mesophotic zone, located in the Hawaiian Archipelago. Read more Video: Largest-ever class graduates from UW June 14, 2019 More than 8,000 graduates attended the University of Washington's 144th commencement ceremonies on Saturday. Read more Video: The Wikipedia gender gap June 12, 2019 Wikipedia is one of the most successful online communities in history, yet it struggles to attract and retain editors who are women — another example of the gender gap online. Read more Search UW News Search for: UW Experts Ukraine Climate COVID-19 Full directory Categories Browse Administrative affairs Arts and entertainment Buildings and grounds Education Engineering Environment For UW employees Health and medicine Honors and awards Interactive Learning News releases News roundups Official notices Politics and government Population Health Profiles Research Science Social science Technology UW and the community UW Notebook UW Today blog Latest news releases Critical race theory at center of UW study of unequal access to treatment for opioid addiction 3 days ago Seattle democracy vouchers increase donations, number of candidates in city elections 4 days ago Social cohesion found to be key risk factor in early COVID infections 1 week ago More Connect Campus publications A&S Perspectives College of Education University of Washington Magazine The Daily UW Press More publications Evans School Foster School of Business UW Medicine Newsroom Information School IT Connect News Jackson School Law School News President's blog School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Pharmacy School of Public Health School of Social Work The Trend in Engineering UW Libraries: News & Events UW Video Washington Engineer UW Today Newsletter Subscribe UW Today Daily UW Today Week in Review If you're trying to subscribe with a non-UW email address, please email uwnews@uw.edu for assistance. For UW employees Submission guidelines Submission form University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA