Our websites may use cookies to personalize and enhance your experience. By continuing without changing your cookie settings, you agree to this collection. For more information, please see our University Websites Privacy Notice. Skip Navigation UConn University of Connecticut Search University of Connecticut Search UConn A to Z Index UConn A to Z Search Waterbury Menu Press enter to search Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students About Director's Welcome Overview of Campus Campus Faculty and Staff Campus Directory Community Engagement Maps and Directions Academics Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Academic Resources Student Life Campus Safety Student Involvement Student Resources Info For Alumni Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans APPLY VISIT GIVE Our Campus Your best is about to get even better. At UConn Waterbury, you’ll get all the benefits of a prestigious public research university in a small college setting. For more than 70 years, UConn Waterbury has opened the doors to educational access and excellence for thousands of Connecticut residents. Today, the campus is located in a leading-edge facility in the heart of Waterbury’s revitalized downtown. Spring 2022 Reopening Information Allied Health Sciences UConn Waterbury is thrilled to announce the launch of the Allied Health Sciences major for fall 2020. Complete your bachelor's degree and connect with a vast network of community health partners in the greater Waterbury area. Learn more here. 1,000+ Undergraduate Students 48% of Huskies are ethnic and racial minorities 57 Miles Distance to Storrs 135+ Education Abroad Programs Important Deadlines Important Deadline Deadline for Merit Scholarship & Honors Consideration. Notification of Admission Begins March 1 Dec 01 Special Programs Application Law, Education, Medicine, Dental Medicine Notification of Admission Begins March 1 Dec 01 FAFSA Financial Aid Eligibility Notification of Financial Awards Begins Mid-March Feb 15 Important Deadline Regional Campuses First-Year Student and Transfer Application Deadline May 01 News Dr. Fumiko Hoeft Introduced as New Interim Director of UConn Waterbury Anne D’Alleva Appointed Interim Provost Record-Setting 40,000+ Applicants Seek to Join UConn’s Class of 2026 President Maric Announces Task Force for Combating Sexual Violence & Supporting Our Students Upcoming Events All Events » Home Admissions About Academics Student Life Give University of Connecticut Waterbury Campus 99 East Main Street Waterbury, Connecticut 06702 Phone: 1 (203) 236-9800 Follow us on facebook Follow us on instagram Follow us on youtube Follow us on twitter Info For Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Alumni Related Links Net ID HuskyCT Student Administration System Google Apps HuskyCT Email/Office365/Outlook Emergency Closing Announcements Other Important Links Facilities Management Faculty & Staff Room Reservation Form UConn Home Disclaimers, Privacy & Copyright Accessibility Policies A-Z Index Webmaster Login © 2022 University of Connecticut Admissions Prospective Students Tuition and Aid Visiting Campus Admitted Students About Director’s Welcome Overview of Campus Campus Faculty and Staff Campus Directory Community Engagement Maps and Directions Academics Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Programs Academic Resources Student Life Campus Safety Student Involvement Student Resources Info For Alumni Current Students Faculty and Staff Veterans APPLY VISIT GIVE Press enter to search