Skip to content Share Contact Menu About Contact & Directions People Faculty Postdoctoral Fellows Research Education Events Upcoming Events Event Series China Initiative Research Seminar China Initiative Distinguished Speakers Series Brown-China Summit Event Archive 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Webcast Archive Opportunities Home Building a Network of Experts to Understand a Giant Player on the World Stage Watson Welcomes China Expert Tyler Jost to Faculty China Initiative Awards for Graduate Students and Faculty Director Edward Steinfeld: Mao’s Lesson for Trump’s America Featured Trending Globally: Politics & Policy · China Initiative Trending Globally: China’s Mission to the Moon, and the New Politics of Space Exploration Between the presidential election, spikes in the coronavirus pandemic, and the beginning of mass vaccination, you might have missed this other world-historical event: China landed on the moon. On this episode, Watson’s Director Ed Steinfeld talks about China’s lunar mission with Watson Faculty Fellow Jim Head. Jim is a Professor of Geological Sciences at Brown, and a leading expert on interplanetary exploration. They discuss the science and politics of China’s growing space program, and what it means for human space exploration in the 21st century. They also look at why this next generation of space travel will be nothing like the Cold War ‘space race,’ and a little bit about where exactly Elon Musk fits in, too. more china initiative podcasts China Initiative Awards for Graduate Students and Faculty The China Initiative is pleased to announce three new funding opportunities for Brown University graduate students and faculty: Graduate Research Awards, Awards for Graduate Language Study, and Faculty Research Awards. more information Student Spotlight: Yifeng Troy Cai MA, MS PhD candidate Yifeng Troy Cai MA, MS receives China Initiative Dissertation Award. MORE Events June 1 The US-China Competition: Who’s Winning? 12p.m. – 1:30p.m. China Initiative Research Seminar A forum for the presentation of cutting-edge social science research on contemporary China. The seminar particularly encourages the presentation of research work-in-progress. China Initiative Distinguished Speaker Series A forum for world renown scholars and practitioners to reflect on China’s modernization experience – past, present, and future. Brown-China Summit A student-run annual conference explores China’s contemporary transformation through the participation of thought leaders from across Chinese society. Speakers in recent years have included social entrepreneurs, artists, business practitioners, film makers, public officials, investors, and educators. CHINA INITIATIVE, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 6884 china@brown.edu © 2022 China Initiative