Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Thesis Advising Each honors candidate works with a thesis committee of two advisors preferably from different departments at Brown. Ideally, one of the two advisors should be affiliated with the Watson Institute for International Studies. The primary thesis advisor must: have a PhD and be a faculty member in residence at Brown for both semesters of the student's senior year and be sufficiently knowledgeable about the topic of research to provide useful advice throughout the research and writing process and NOT be on sabbatical during either semester of the student's senior year. Faculty from language arts and literature departments may be second readers. The choice of a primary thesis advisor is an important one, and each potential honors candidate may wish to discuss this with the IR Program Director, the Assistant Director, or the track advisors. Students are encouraged to obtain a second reader by the end of their junior spring semester. Indeed, the senior thesis is an unusual opportunity for students to work closely with a faculty member on a one-to-one basis, so students are encouraged to be somewhat flexible in their choice of topics in order to be able to establish a match with the expertise of one of Brown’s faculty members. Plan Ahead! Thesis Advisors are hot commodities. In the final analysis, doing research on a topic of shared interest with a faculty member should take priority over a student’s desire to work on a “favorite” topic, especially if there is no one at Brown who has the necessary expertise to advise the student on that topic. Please note that foreign language instructors are typically not suitable first readers. Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute