Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleAdvisingRequirementsCoursesNewsOpportunitiesResourcesUndergraduateGraduateEvents Menu About Contact Office Hours People Faculty Staff Advising Additional Support Requirements Declaring Capstone Reflection Paper Guidelines Submission Guidelines Honors & Senior Thesis FAQs Courses Core Classes Electives News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight Events Upcoming Events Events Archive 2021 2020 Class of 2020 Senior Theses & Capstone Award Winners Anonymous Feedback Fall 2020 Opportunities Grants & Awards 5th-Year MPA Engaged Scholars Program Brown in D.C. University Opportunities Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight News Archive 2016 Communication as Perspective: an interview with Michael Kennedy December 24, 2016 Policy Trajectories Blog Michael Kennedy in the American Sociological Association's Policy Trajectories Blog, " I would propose that we think of knowledge not only as a quest to understand structures relatively autonomous from our own understanding, or subjective realities that are the consequences of various life experiences, but focus on those mediating knowledgeabilities that shape how we engage the world with more and less consequence for that world’s improvement." more RI, Mass. electors set to vote Monday (comments by Wendy Schiller) December 19, 2016 NBC 10 Brown University political scientist Wendy Schiller is quoted in an article about Monday's elector vote. more When does democracy fail? When voters don't get what they asked for. (written by Mark Blyth) December 15, 2016 The Washington Post Mark Blyth in The Washington Post, "Unsurprisingly, people are beginning to realize that they are no longer getting what they vote for." more The chilling dissent in Trump's America (comments by Jeff Colgan) December 14, 2016 Herald Scotland Brown political scientist Jeff Colgan comments on the 'chilling effect' that has been spurred by Donald Trump's rhetoric about dialing back the First Amendment. more Dodd-Frank, in place after financial crisis, targeted by Trump and Mnuchin (comments by Nick Ziegler) December 1, 2016 USA Today Research professor Nick Ziegler, comments on the possible elimination of the Dodd-Frank Act now that former Goldman Sachs banker Steven Mnuchin has been named Trump's Treasury Secretary. more 10 Ways to Tell if Your President Is a Dictator (Jeff Colgan mentioned) November 30, 2016 Foreign Policy Jeff Colgan's resource list of political science literature focused on democratic erosion around the world is mentioned. more Trump's Challenge to American Democracy (research by Jeff Colgan cited) November 29, 2016 The New Yorker Research by Jeff Colgan, professor of political science, was cited in an article about American democracy following the results of the presidential campaign. more Global Trumpism (written by Mark Blyth) November 16, 2016 Foreign Affairs Mark Blyth in Foreign Affairs, "Could there then be a higher set of drivers in the global economy pushing the world in a direction where Trump is really just one part of a more global pattern of events?" more Transformational Solidarity in the time of Trump (written by Michael Kennedy) November 14, 2016 RI Future Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "Like those who protest, I fear this election has destroyed the checks and balances that enable those who don’t share my privilege to feel any modicum of security in Trump’s America." more Does Trump stand a chance of turning Rhode Island from blue to red? (comments by Wendy Schiller) November 8, 2016 The Providence Journal Political scientist Wendy Schiller comments on the likelihood of Rhode Island voters turning their support towards the GOP nominee. more Latino voters show enormous mobilization (interview with Wendy Schiller) November 7, 2016 Bloomberg Brown University Professor Wendy Schiller and Tony Crescenzi, portfolio manager at Pimco, examine early voter turnout and the impact of Latino and Asian voters in the 2016 election. more Will Rhode Islanders Vote for an Ethical State Legislature? (comments by Ross Cheit) November 1, 2016 WGBH Ross Cheit, Professor of International and Public Affairs and Political Science, discussed the upcoming vote to have Rhode Island's legislature supervised by the state's Ethics Commission. more Electing the Senate: Indirect Democracy before the 17th Amendment – research by Wendy Schiller October 25, 2016 Wendy Schiller, Professor of Political Science, and International and Public Affairs, examines the current race for Senate in Florida, comparing it to that of the 1891 election in the state. more You Asked: What Causes a Miscarriage? (comments by Emily Oster) October 20, 2016 TIME Brown University economist Emily Oster, author of Expecting Better, comments on the factors linked to miscarriages. more Greenland calls on Denmark to clean up toxic waste buried in melting ice sheet (Jeff Colgan research cited) October 18, 2016 Mashable Greenland officials are calling on Denmark to address the toxic clean up mess buried beneath ice sheets at Camp Century, citing a study co-authored by Brown scientist Jeff Colgan. more The failure, and abiding danger, of Trump (written by Michael Kennedy) October 11, 2016 RI Future Michael Kennedy in RIFuture.org, "Trump has given license to those who, in the name of opposing political correctness, feel free to demean and harm, in speech and in practice, those they consider inferior." more Ethics restoration would not restrict speech says Cheit (comments by Ross Cheit and Wendy Schiller) October 5, 2016 The Providence Journal Professors Ross Cheit and Wendy Schiller are quoted in this story on Rhode Island ballot question 2, which addresses ethics commission oversight. more Melting Ice Threatens to Expose Former U.S. Nuclear Base in Greenland (co-authored by Jeff Colgan) October 4, 2016 New Security Beat Jeff Colgan in New Security Beat, "As the ice melts, the camp’s infrastructure, as well as any remaining biological, chemical, and radioactive waste, will re-enter the environment and potentially disrupt nearby ecosystems and human health on a broader scale." more Wendy Schiller on Marketplace Tech (interview) September 27, 2016 Marketplace Wendy Schiller discusses the first presidential debate and social media's on Marketplace Tech with Molly Wood. more Sarah Palin can teach Donald Trump how to become a better debater. Yes, really. (comments by Jim Morone) September 23, 2016 Mic James Morone, a political scientist at Brown University, comments on the strategies the presidential candidates might use from Sarah Palin's playbook. more Clash of titans: Clinton, Trump gird for first debate (comments by Wendy Schiller) September 23, 2016 Yahoo! Brown political scientist Wendy Schiller comments on what Hillary Clinton supporters want to see from her at next week's presidential debate. more What the political doctor orders (co-authored by Jim Morone) September 20, 2016 NY Daily News In the New York Daily News, Jim Morone and David Blumenthal discuss the history of presidential candidates hiding illnesses. more The Dark Arts (comments by John Friedman) September 16, 2016 The Economist John Friedman comments on the benefits that drugmakers have seen since the revision of the Medicare program in 2003. more Ice melt threatens to unearth waste from Cold War military base buried within Greenland's ice (Jeff Colgan research cited) August 5, 2016 Mashable Jeff Colgan, Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science, co-authored a new study on the abandoned hazardous waste left beneath a U.S. military base built within the Greenland Ice Scheet in 1959. Due to the rapid progression of climate change, the waste could soon reenter the environment and harm nearby ecosystems. more Will politics take off the month of August? (comments by Wendy Schiller) August 5, 2016 TIME With Congress in recess and many people on vacation, national politics are supposed to hit a late-summer lull. That may no longer be the case, according to Wendy Schiller, professor of political science. more How A New Type of Prenatal Genetic Testing Could Predict Your Child (written by Emily Oster) August 3, 2016 TIME Emily Oster in TIME, "But the new prenatal screening tests are a game changer. They represent a significant technological breakthrough because the key to identifying problems or genetic risks is being able to see the baby’s DNA." more How a Bad Storm Could Propel Trump to the Oval Office (comments by Michael Kennedy) August 2, 2016 OZY Michael Kennedy, professor of sociology, comments on an article about the volatile nature of elections and voters' assessment of political responsibility following tragedies. more The politics of progressive identification and the DNC (written by Michael Kennedy) July 29, 2016 RI Future MIchael Kennedy in RI Future, "Being progressive is not only about outcome. It’s also about process. It’s about living in our daily life the politics we want to see writ large." more Wendy Schiller on DNC Day 2 (interview) July 27, 2016 NBC 10 News Wendy Schiller discusses Day 2 of the Democratic National Convention. more Experts: GOP cyber platform "detrimental to global stability" (comments by Tim Edgar) July 21, 2016 FedScoop Tim Edgar comments on the Republican Party platform's cyber agenda that was released this week, coinciding with the start of the GOP Convention. more Is House Majority Leader DeSimone One of the Most Vulnerable in RI? (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 20, 2016 GoLocalProv Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on news of House Majority Leader John DeSimone's failure to pay his property taxes and owing the city more than $18,000. more When does a cyberattack become an act of war? (comments by Tim Edgar) July 18, 2016 The Associated Press As legislators grapple with how to address and define cyberattacks that could be considered acts of war, cyber conflict expert Timothy Edgar comments on the difficulty of attributing such attacks. more Taking Refuge in Dollar Could Expose World Economy to New Perils (comments by Mark Blyth) July 5, 2016 The New York Times Political economist Mark Blyth comments on the role of the Federal Reserve System in the aftermath of the United Kingdom's vote to exit the European Union just as currencies around the world drop. more Krieger, White Internship Programs Fund Policy Internships July 5, 2016 The public policy program's two internship funding programs — The Noah Krieger ’93 Memorial fund and the Happy and John Hazen, White, Sr. fund — provided stipends to thirteen public policy concentrators to pursue an unpaid summer internship. Many of this year's awardees will be spending the summer working in Washington, DC. more An economist's guide to the unfortunate logic of tipping (written by Emily Oster) July 5, 2016 Quartz Emily Oster in Quartz, "Tipping may not lead to good service on your first visit at a new restaurant, but I can pretty much guarantee that not tipping will result in bad service on your second and all further visits." more What's Killing American Babies Before Their First Birthday? (Emily Oster research mentioned) July 1, 2016 Bloomberg Infants that are one month to one year of age have a higher mortality rate in America than in other developed nations, according to a paper co-authored by Emily Oster. more Brexit Fallout Continues: Its Implications for the World (interview with Mark Blyth) June 29, 2016 KCRW's To The Point Mark Blyth discusses Britain's exit from the EU and the fallout that followed. more What If America Approached Crime Like Treating a Disease? (comments by Glenn Loury) June 28, 2016 The Atlantic Glenn Loury, professor of social science and economics, comments on the need to reform the criminal justice system in America which imprisons thousands of people without dealing with the underlying causes. more How Brexit could affect cyberspace (comments by Tim Edgar) June 27, 2016 Politico Following the announcement of the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union, Watson Institute senior fellow Timothy Edgar commented on how the Brexit could impact the cyber security space and pending policies. more When Donald Trump Says His Foreign Policy Is ‘America First’—What Exactly Does He Mean? (comments by Stephen Kinzer) May 24, 2016 The Nation Senior Fellow Stephen Kinzer shares his thoughts on Donald Trump's potential foreign policy ideas, if the Republican candidate wins the presidency. more Brown pollster defends discrepancies in primary projections (comments by Jim Morone) April 28, 2016 Providence Journal James Morone, director of the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, defended the discrepancy between his poll and the results of the Rhode Island primaries. more Raimondo's job-approval rating takes a hit in Brown survey (comments by James Morone and Wendy Schiller) April 26, 2016 more Small Rhode Island Suddenly Has Big Role in Presidential Primaries (comments by Jim Morone and Wendy Schiller) April 25, 2016 The New York Times With 33 Democratic and 19 Republican delegates up for grabs in tomorrow's Rhode Island primary, the state will play a bigger role than usual. more Election 2016 would give the Founding Fathers indigestion, but they'd still be thankful (written by Wendy Schiller) April 21, 2016 The Dallas Morning News Wendy Schiller in The Dallas Morning News, "Equally likely, the founders would fear Trump or Sanders securing their party’s nomination because neither of them has demonstrated the willingness to restrain the dangerous parts of their rhetoric in favor of more balanced explanations of their policies." more RhodyVotes '16: Some Republicans Torn Between GOP Candidates (comments by Wendy Schiller) April 14, 2016 RI NPR Wendy Schiller comments on a recent poll in Rhode Island that shows Donald Trump leading among Republican and independent voters. more Nearly 100 Brown Students Participated in International Security Negotiation Simulation at the Watson Institute April 14, 2016 more Rachel Black '16 Wins Research Prize at Harvard April 10, 2016 more In wake of Wisconsin, R.I. primaries suddenly loom large (comments by Jim Morone) April 7, 2016 Providence Journal James A. Morone, director of the Taubman Center, comments on the upcoming presidential primary in Rhode Island. more Wendy Schiller on the results from the Wisconsin primaries (interview) April 5, 2016 Minnesota Public Radio Wendy Schiller talks to Minnesota Public Radio on the outcome of the Wisconsin primaries. more How Buyers React When Prices Rise and Fall (written by Justine Hastings) March 28, 2016 The New York Times more Turns Out a 'Lie' Lurked Beneath the Bookends of the BRICS (comments by Mark Blyth) March 18, 2016 Bloomberg Mark Blyth, professor of political science, commented on an article about the corruption scandals threatening to end the political careers of Brazil and South Africa's leaders, Dilma Rousseff and Jacob Zuma. more Questions About What's in Trump's Tax Returns Persist (comments by Wendy Schiller) March 16, 2016 Tax Analysts Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on an article about Donald Trump's federal tax return. more Congressman Elijah Cummings: We need to see each other to move forward March 13, 2016 In his first-ever trip to the state of Rhode Island, Congressman Elijah Cummings delivered the Noah Krieger ’93 memorial lecture to a packed MacMillan auditorium on March 8. In his rousing speech, titled “The Fierce Urgency of now,” Cummings spoke of “battling for the people left behind” in society. He repeatedly asked the audience, “Do they see us? Do they really care about us?” more Do you really want to know your medical future? (Emily Oster research cited) March 11, 2016 CNN Emily Oster's research cited on CNN showing that many at risk for Huntington's disease do not get tested. more Greece, Austerity and Brexit (commentary by Mark Blyth) March 8, 2016 Social Europe Mark Blyth, Eastman Professor of Political Economy, talks about the economically hot topics across Europe at GFMF2016. more Super Tuesday wrap up on State of Mind (commentary by Jim Morone) March 3, 2016 State of Mind Jim Morone joins State of Mind to analyze the Super Tuesday results and give his election predictions. more Super Tuesday Analysis: Wendy Schiller March 2, 2016 NBC 10 News Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, discusses what's at stake for presidential candidates on Super Tuesday. more Ask Emily: Is a vacation with my family worth $4,500? (written by Emily Oster) March 2, 2016 Quartz Emily Oster, associate professor of international affairs, takes an economical approach to answering questions about vacationing with family and the dilemma of spending money in oppressed countries. more Clinton & Trump Top New Brown University Presidential Poll (comments by Jim Morone) February 26, 2016 Rhode Island Public Radio Jim Morone comments on the newly released Taubman Center poll in which Rhode Island residents preferred Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton as presidential candidates. more Brown U. poll: RI voters back Trump, Clinton (comments by Jim Morone) February 26, 2016 NBC 10 News Jim Morone comments on the Taubman Center's recent survey of Rhode Island residents' voting behavior in which Donald Trump and Hilary Clinton were highly favored. more Taubman Lecture: Nicole Pollock '08 on Innovation in City Government February 23, 2016 more Has austerity failed? (Interview with Mark Blyth) February 19, 2016 BBC Mark Blyth, professor of political science, takes part in a discussion about the effectiveness, or lack thereof, of austerity measures in Europe. more The New Hampshire earthquake: Trump and Sanders vs. the laws of political probability (written by Jim Morone) February 19, 2016 Salon.com Jim Morone on Salon.com, "Donald Trump won almost every demographic and almost every precinct in New Hampshire. The Republican establishment is horrified." more Global markets are no longer obeying economic common sense (written by Mark Blyth) February 16, 2016 The Guardian Mark Blyth in The Guardian, "By the end of 2015 market commentators were clamouring for an interest rate rise from the Federal Reserve to restore confidence." more Ask Emily: Should I chase my dreams, or live like a boss? (written by Emily Oster) February 9, 2016 Quartz Emily Oster, associate professor of economics, responds to inquiries about life such as taking a low paying, fulfilling job versus a high paying, "soul crushing" job. more First votes cast in New Hampshire hamlets (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 9, 2016 AlJazeera America Wendy Schiller, chair of the political science department, comments on the midnight turnout tradition in the New Hampshire primary. more CDC Says Women Shouldn't Drink Unless They're on Birth Control. Is It Drunk?!? (Emily Oster mentioned) February 4, 2016 Slate An article about the CDC's recent report on alcohol consumption during pregnancy cites work by Emily Oster, associate professor of economics and author of Expecting Better. more Supreme Court: Eye on the prize (written by Richard Arenberg) February 3, 2016 The Hill Richard Arenberg in The Hill, "One of the most important tasks the Constitution assigns to our presidents is the nomination of justices to the Supreme Court." more What will it take for the state to finally move on from 38 Studios? (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 1, 2016 Providence Business News Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on an article about the failed video game company 38 Studios. "The idea of the state committing anything based on the expectation of revenue from another source is what makes people legitimately nervous," Schiller said in reference to a proposed baseball stadium and a multimillion dollar state infrastructure project. more Modi's idea of India (written by Ashutosh Varshney) January 27, 2016 The Indian Express Ashutosh Varshney in The India Express, "Modi has taken this idea much further — in concept, if not in law. He has brought Indian nationhood even closer to the jus sanguinis model. Overseas Indians are part of his idea of India." more Liberals Turn to Cities to Pass Laws and Spread Ideas (comments by Margaret Weir) January 26, 2016 The New York Times Margaret Weir comments on an article about liberals turning to cities to enact policy changes."Historically, especially for groups that want more government action and more generous social and economic policies, they could go to the federal government and achieve those things," Ms. Weir said. "That has become more difficult. It's a reflection of the loss of power at the federal level." more Ask Emily: How do I determine how much money my friends are worth? (written by Emily Oster) January 21, 2016 Quartz Emily Oster, associate professor of economics, answers questions about everyday problems from readers as part of Quartz' Ask Emily section. more Six things that must happen for Bernie Sanders to beat Hillary Clinton (comments by Jim Morone) January 19, 2016 Cleveland.com Jim Morone comments on the likelihood of Bernie Sanders becoming the Democratic nominee over Hillary Clinton, despite his recent surge in polls. more A Superhero Saves the Day ... in Hungary (comments by Michael Kennedy) January 14, 2016 Yahoo News! Michael Kennedy, professor of sociology, comments on the content of a new comic book called Titanember. more John Friedman wins the TIAA-CREF Paul A. Samuelson Award For Outstanding Scholarly Writing On Lifelong Financial Security January 13, 2016 TIAA-CREF Institute "Named in honor of Nobel Prize winner and former CREF trustee Paul A. Samuelson, this prestigious award is presented by the Institute annually to recognize an outstanding research publication that can help advance Americans’ lifelong financial wellbeing. The winner is chosen by an independent panel of judges – consisting of Institute Fellows and previous award winners – and receives a $10,000 cash prize." more Powerball is already pulling in billions this year (comments by Emily Oster) January 13, 2016 CBS MoneyWatch Emily Oster, associate professor of economics and international and public affairs, comments on the behavior of people as the Powerball jackpot reached unprecedented levels. more Saudi Arabia Launches Aramco IPO to Raise Revenue Amid Low Oil Prices (comments by Jeff Colgan) January 12, 2016 Sputnik News Jeff Colgan comments on the idea of Saudi Arabia's national oil giant, Aramco, going public in the wake of record low oil prices. more Where Health Policy Is Heading in Rhode Island January 11, 2016 Nicole Alexander-Scott, Director of the Rhode Island Department of Health, recently spoke about the agenda and direction of the department at a public talk hosted by the Taubman Center. Alexander-Scott was appointed Director by Governor Gina Raimondo early in 2015, and has since launched a multi-faceted initiative to eliminate health inequality across Rhode Island. more Poland Lacks a Coherent Historical Policy (comments by Michael Kennedy) January 6, 2016 Wyborcza Watson Fall '15 visitor Michal Luczewski comments on the politics in Germany and Russia in order to illuminate the ways in which the politics of history might be engaged in Poland. He concludes by quoting Watson's Michael Kennedy: "Solidarity is something too precious to leave to just the Poles." more MPA Students Gain Global Policy Perspective January 4, 2016 The Watson Institute has launched a two-week “global policy experience” as a required part of its one-year Master of Public Affairs program. The MPA class of 2016 traveled to either Sweden, Brazil, or India to learn how policy makers in other countries implement solutions within local institutional, social, and political constraints. more BROWN PUBLIC POLICY PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 publicpolicy@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute