Skip to content Menu About Student Experience The Watson Institute Living in Providence Curriculum Specializations Policy In Action Consultancy Required Courses Careers Alumni Spotlight Apply Program Costs Program Schedule Joint MPH/MPA 5th-Year MPA Admissions Events People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Events Admissions Events Events at Watson FAQs Contact Apply Program Costs Program Schedule Joint MPH/MPA 5th-Year MPA Admissions Events 5th-Year Master of Public Affairs for Brown Undergraduates Brown University undergraduates have the opportunity spend a fifth year at Brown to earn a Master of Public Affairs degree. The 5th-year MPA is an efficient way to gain the analytic, communication, and problem-solving skills desired by employers in the public policy sector. Brown's MPA students have graduated to exciting careers in nonprofit organizations, consulting firms, social policy organizations, state and local government, and federal agencies. Upcoming information sessions: All information sessions are 45 minutes long with the final 15 minutes reserved for Q+A Friday, March 11 at 12 p.m. in Birkelund Board Room (140), 111 Thayer Street Curriculum Unique features of the Brown MPA include: Condensed June-May schedule allows students to gain hard skills and professional experience in just one year. A professional consultancy where students use the tools they gained in class at a policy organization aligned with their career interests. Statistics and economics courses are integrated, using the same research and data sets to explore policy topics. Pathway A: Tuition Savings with Approved Electives Brown 5th-year students choose between two pathways to earn the MPA degree: Pathway A Complete a total of 10 courses: 9 required courses + 1 elective course Students to count up to 2 electives (with approval of the Master of Public Affairs Program Director) toward the electives of the MPA degree. Pathway A reduces tuition by $7,406 per course (or a total of $14,812 for two courses, based on 2020-21 tuition). Pathway A students are required to take all 9 core MPA courses and are not are not eligible to pursue the Data-Driven Policy Track because they are permitted to take only one elective. Pathway B (the standard one-year program) Complete a total of 12 courses: 10 required courses + 2 elective courses Students pay the regular tuition, and can explore a policy specialization through their three electives. Application Process and Materials Open to students from any undergraduate concentration; apply during senior year. Application fee waived for Brown student applicants. Final deadline for Brown seniors to submit their application is May 1, 2022. Students interested in receiving merit aid are strongly encouraged to apply as soon as possible. Required Materials for Brown 5th-Year Applicants Unofficial transcript from Brown 2 letters of recommendation Resume Personal statement outlining why you have decided to pursue graduate work (600-800 words). Questions about the 5th-year MPA? Attend one of our information sessions, or schedule an admissions appointment by emailing us at watsonmpa@brown.edu. Share Contact Master of Public Affairs Program, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1977 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 7742 watsonmpa@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute