Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students LACA HONORS AND CAPSTONE PROJECTS All LACA concentrators must complete a capstone project. Students undertaking a capstone project are required to enroll in LACA 1900. Options for the capstone project include: A) Honors Thesis The honors thesis may follow one of the two formats listed below: A 40-80 page paper based on original research. An original artistic creation (e.g., photography, music, fine arts, and performing arts), eligible for consideration for an honors project in the relevant concentration, along with an accompanying reflective statement (15 pages). Either thesis project must be supervised by a primary advisor and a secondary reader. Both must be Brown professors, chosen by the student and approved by the concentration advisor. The primary thesis advisor takes an active role in the paper, regularly meeting with the student throughout the year. The secondary reader reviews and provides feedback on one draft of the paper and the final product. For additional information about Honors eligibility in LACA, please visit here. An index of past LACA theses from 1980-2020 may be found here. The thesis may qualify a student to graduate with Honors, if the student meets the additional requirements and follows the timeline listed here, and receives the unanimous recommendation of their primary advisor and secondary reader, as well as approval from the concentration advisor. B) Capstone Project The capstone project may follow one of the two formats listed below: A reflective statement about an UTRA project, an internship, a service project or a study experience abroad related to Latin American and the Caribbean (conducted in any concentration). This statement would report how this experience affected the student’s views and understanding of this region (20 pages); An original research paper related to a Latin American or Caribbean studies based on original or secondary research (20-25 pages). The capstone project is supervised by one faculty advisor, who is a Brown professor, chosen by the student and approved by the concentration advisor. The above two capstone project formats cannot qualify the student for honors. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute