Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients About People IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Internships and Careers A typical concern of liberal arts students, but especially those in a broad interdisciplinary program like International Relations, is career possibilities. Like all liberal arts programs, the IR concentration provides students with a broad background and an opportunity to develop analytic tools that will be useful in virtually any professional activity. Indeed, many IR students pursue more "vocational" training in graduate school to complement their undergraduate studies. This may include study in law school (perhaps with a focus on international law), in business school (especially for those interested in work in multinational corporations or international business or finance), schools of public and/or international affairs (for those interested in government service, working in international organizations, or international relief and development work), schools of journalism (for students interested in international reporting), medical school (for those interested in global public health or international relief and development), or disciplinary graduate programs (primarily for those students interested in pursuing academic careers). Many graduates pursue careers immediately upon graduation in a wide variety of fields, others apply to training programs or internships in international organizations such as the World Bank or United Nations, while others choose to spend some time in volunteer activities such as the Peace Corps to deepen their international experience. Internship and Career Resources Includes paid and unpaid internships Brown Careers in the Common Good Summer Internship Program University of Pennsylvania International Internships Russian & East European Institute School of Global & International Studies Atlantic Council U.S. Department of State Central Intelligence Agency Council on Foreign Relations Careers in International Affairs Mount Holyoke College IR career resources Sample Employers CONSULTING Phase One Consulting Group Bain The Avascent Group CSMG McKinsey Brunswick Group Mahindra and Mahindra, Ltd. Analysis Group Booz Allen Hamilton EF Education Tours Polish Oil and Gas (PGNiG) Sino Elite Taurus Education Parthenon Group Navanti Group CORPORATE, FINANCE Google Capital Group - The Associate Program Bank of Montreal Capital Markets Barclays Capital Nike Goldman Sachs Unilever McKinsey and Co Trip Advisor Digitas McMaster-Carr Yelp JP Morgan Morgan Stanley, Global Capital Markets Fidelity LAW Roxe, Chinitz & Rose Mintz Levin Allen and Overy Wiltshire & Grannis FELLOWSHIPS, GRANTS, SCHOLARSHIPS Fellowship from Center for Arabic Studies Humanity in Action Fulbright – Research & Teaching (Peru, Kyrgyzstan, China, Jordan, Mexico, Russia, Spain, Chile, Finland) Peacebuilding en las Americas Liman F'ship (Asian Pacific Islander Legal Outreach) GRADUATE SCHOOL SAIS, Johns Hopkins University of Cambridge Al Akhawayn University University of Oxford Tufts – Fletcher School George Washington University Brown University London School of Economics Georgetown – School of Foreign Service Columbia – SIPA University of Chicago MEDICAL SCHOOL Alpert Medical School Bryn Mawr Baylor College of Medicine PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL – LAW/BUSINESS Yale Harvard University of Michigan Northeastern Columbia BPP London Georgetown Stanford INTERNSHIP Center for Advanced Defense Project on Middle East Democracy ACLU of Philadelphia GOVERNMENT – FOREIGN Singapore GOVERNMENT – US Intelligence Department of Defense UN Peacekeeping Operations UNESCO US Navy Foreign Service NEWS, MEDIA NYT Beijing Foreign Affairs CNN Journal of Democracy Bloomberg News Reuters NGO Rustic Pathways EF Education First Follow the Things Save the Children PEACE CORPS Algeria, West Saharawi refugee camp TEACHING English with JET Program, Japan Teach for America, RI Elementary, NC Tutoring, Barcelona English, Spain Fulbright MARKETING EF Education First Alpha Technologies Ltd. Fluenz NON-PROFIT, RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS Center for Strategic and International Studies Clinton Foundation Council on Foreign Relations International Research and Exchanges Board (IREX) Project on Middle East Democracy (POMED) Sample Positions Philanthropy Consultant Consulting Associate Analyst Executive Development Program Trainee Corporate and Investment Banking Consultant Associate Media Planner Strategy Analyst Quality Assurance Junior Associate Investment Banking Analyst Program Assistant for Policy and Communications Recruitment Coordinator Associate LLC Analyst Jr. Cybersecurity Specialist Global Distribution Associate Account Coordinator Management Executive Sittings & Research Assistant to Contributing Editor Business Analyst Site Merchandising Associate Volunteer Entrepreneur Account Executive Asian Pacific Islander Legal Outreach Office of Councilor at Large Assistant Manager Designer in Residence/Franklin Fellow Paralegal Human Rights Officer Research and Data Visualization Fellow Teaching Fellow Editor Government Service A popular career path among IR concentrators is some form of government service. Most often this includes careers in the diplomatic service of the student's country, but it may also include work in other governmental agencies. For example, in the United States, students with an IR background might pursue careers in the Departments of State (the Foreign Service or the State Department in Washington), Defense, Health and Human Services, or Homeland Security; the armed services, the CIA or other intelligence agencies; or other branches of government with important international divisions (e.g. the Departments of Commerce, Energy, or Agriculture). International Organizations Many students are interested in careers in the UN and its specialized agencies, for example, in the fields of diplomacy, human rights, or humanitarian affairs, or in the World Bank and other international financial institutions. However, national quotas and the small number of positions relative to the number of applicants often make such positions highly competitive. Prior work experience in a relevant nongovernmental organization is often a route to obtaining positions in international organizations. In all such work in both national and international bureaucracies, an advanced degree at the M.A. level in an interdisciplinary program in public and/or international affairs is often required. Please note that many professional Master's programs require applicants to have a solid background in economics consisting of at least one semester each of microeconomics, macroeconomics, and statistics, along with relevant real-world experience. Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) An increasingly popular career path is working with nongovernmental organizations engaged in research or advocacy. Examples include human rights and environmental groups, international affairs and public policy research institutes, or development and aid organizations. Because advanced training is often not necessary, many students find NGOs a good place to gain valuable experience and get their start in a field. Positions with NGOs often entail significant responsibilities right from the start and room for quick advancement if not much in the way of remuneration. A background in the substantive area, along with good writing, research, and speaking skills, is generally desirable. International Business & Finance A popular career option for IR graduates is business, especially work with multinational enterprises, banks, and accounting firms dealing extensively in international trade and finance. Obviously, a solid foundation in micro & macro economics and statistics is especially helpful for students considering this career path. Many students find employment as analysts, consultants, or researchers in business immediately upon graduation. However, the best jobs are usually obtained by those students who have complemented their undergraduate liberal education with additional training in a school of business, management, or international affairs after several years of work experience. Academia An area of frequent interest is the academic profession at the secondary school level or at the college or university level. Careers in this area generally require graduate study, and those interested in college or university teaching should plan to pursue a Ph.D.--normally in a specific discipline such as political science, history, economics, anthropology, or sociology. Since all of these disciplines have strong international components, a broad undergraduate training in international relations is often as useful as specific training in that discipline in preparing for graduate study; indeed, given the disciplinary narrowness of most graduate programs, the interdisciplinary breadth of an undergraduate program may be extremely valuable. Other Careers Finally, International Relations leads to many other careers including those in media, journalism, law, consulting, public health, environment, immigration, and global and regional development. The breadth of the concentration provides a good basic background for those careers mentioned here and many other related fields. Further information about any of these careers may be obtained from Career LAB (Center for Careers and Life After Brown). Although it is important to achieve breadth in one's undergraduate education, it is also useful to develop some specialized skills or knowledge that give one an edge in specific areas. This includes acquiring fluency in a second language, in-depth knowledge of a country or region, particular research methods such as statistics or qualitative analysis, or public speaking. Such skills may enhance the breadth of a strong liberal arts education by providing students with unique attributes that will make them particularly attractive candidates for graduate schools and/or prospective employers. However, students should not focus too heavily in their undergraduate study on preparation for specific careers. Often one's plans change with time, and too narrow a focus too early in one's study may preclude options that later appear attractive. The main function of a concentration in International Relations is to prepare students in a wide range of approaches and methods, to provide a broad knowledge base about the world and current affairs, and above all to provide a good set of critical and analytic tools that serve students well in any career. Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute