Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleResearchPublicationsFor StudentsCIPNewsExplore WatsonWatson MinuteEventsPartnershipsOpportunities Menu About Director's Message Contact and Directions Get Involved E-News Signup History Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty Watson Faculty Watson Faculty Fellows Senior Fellows Visiting Fellows Faculty Emeriti Military Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Board of Governors Find an Expert For Students Student Experience Undergraduate Master of Public Affairs Graduate Program in Development Student Advisory Council Student Resources Career Resources Student Events Senior Fellow Office Hours News News from Watson 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 In the News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2010 2011 Event Series Webcasts Art at Watson Co-sponsored Events Co-sponsorship Request Space Request Join E-Mail List Research Research Briefs 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Archived Research Find an Expert Publications Research Topics 21st Century Economic Challenges Future of the Welfare State Global Health Industrialization, Governance, and Technology Liberal and Illiberal Democracy Migration and Displacement Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Power Security, Stabilization, and Conflict Avoidance Urban Governance Centers & Programs Africa Initiative Brazil Initiative Center for Contemporary South Asia Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Center for Middle East Studies China Initiative Climate Solutions Lab Costs of War Project JFK Jr. Film Initiative The William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance Postdoctoral Fellows Program Senior Fellows Program Stone Inequality Initiative Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy Opportunities Faculty Graduate Postdoc Undergraduate Employment Opportunities News News from Watson In the News Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics Focus on China Building an interdisciplinary network of experts to understand a giant player on the world stage. April 25, 2022 Watson’s China Initiative welcomed two new visiting professors this semester: Deborah Seligsohn, an assistant professor of political science at Villanova University, and Lyle Goldstein, who for 20 years served on the faculty of the Naval War College, where he founded the China Maritime Studies Institute. In addition to bringing scholars and practitioners like Goldstein and Seligsohn to Brown, Edward Steinfeld, director of the Watson and of its China Initiative, envisions bringing experts from China (when relations and travel conditions between the two countries are more favorable) and sending undergraduate and graduate students who focus on China into the field. The China Initiative Summer Research Awards support thesis and doctoral work, including field research in Mainland China or Taiwan. Steinfeld says that along with social scientists, the China Initiative will welcome scholars from public health and the STEM disciplines. And he recently created a humanities postdoctoral position based in the Department of East Asian Studies. Two-way learning An expert on energy, climate, and the environment, Seligsohn spent two decades in the US Department of State working on energy and environment issues in China and elsewhere. She has also worked in the NGO sector, serving as principal advisor to the World Resources Institute’s China Energy and Climate Program. She chose the academic path “to think about deeper questions, to start looking at root causes.” While at the Initiative, Seligsohn is working on a book, based on her dissertation, about the nature of air pollution regulation there – specifically, how the Chinese government uses incentives to encourage large corporations to become advocates for air pollution reduction. Her work also examines the potential environmental benefits of corporate competition. “Once there’s competition, if the government gets the incentives right, companies will compete to gain government favor, and that will cause them to want to do the right thing,” she says. “That’s what you see playing out in the air pollution sphere in China.” Which is why, she adds, “there is no reason not to be hopeful about Chinese progress on a range of environmental issues.” Indeed, she says, China has a lot to teach the world, including “the importance of bureaucracy and governance in achieving goals,” from cleaner energy to public health outcomes. Seligsohn has two scheduled talks this spring: Clean Before Free: How an Autocracy Conquered Air Pollution in China, took place on April 13. The second talk, How the US - China Science Relationship Went Off the Rails, will be a virtual event on April 28. Seligsohn’s reframing is in keeping with the Initiative’s stated goal of “learning about China, and learning from China.” And it’s what Steinfeld characterizes as the fresh perspective on China the Initiative seeks to foster. “There's been this pattern of the US – and the advanced industrial world – teaching China. For example, when the American CDC helped set up the Chinese equivalent, it was a very ‘big brother, little brother’ model. As Deb’s work shows, the Chinese were receptive to it, but then they developed a lot of capabilities – like in public health, including around COVID-19 – that are seen as threatening or frightening or disruptive to the status quo.” Seligsohn’s work, he says, shows that China’s rise is not by definition adversarial. “It all comes down to China” No stranger to the Watson Institute, where he taught from 2011 to 2013, Goldstein too believes we should learn all we can from China. “From climate change to world peace, China is going to play not just a huge role, but a decisive role” in the future of the world, he says. “If we want to deal with climate change, if we want to deal with the danger of nuclear weapons, it comes down to China. We have to hear Chinese voices.” Goldstein also serves as director of Asia engagement at the Washington think tank Defense Priorities, which advocates for realism and restraint in US defense policy; he will draw on that expertise in his work with the Watson-based Costs of War. With colleagues from that project, which for the past decade has studied the costs of the post-9/11 wars, he plans to investigate the costs of competition with China and Russia. He credits Watson Senior Fellow Chas Freeman with this new focus, noting that while the term New Cold War is controversial, “to me, it's a statement of fact. The tensions are there.” Colleagues at the Naval War College have been studying those tensions closely and planning for various wars of a catastrophic nature, which Goldstein finds disturbing. “Our country really needs to find better ways to cooperate and build a world system that's more sustainable, stable, and peaceful,” he says. “Costs of War can make contributions by taking a skeptical look at this ‘New Cold War’ and trying to advocate for sensible solutions. Because compared to the War on Terror, the costs of the New Cold War are astronomical.” First, though, Goldstein has turned his focus to the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its implications. In a forthcoming paper, he shares his initial findings about Russia's military weakness and recommends that the US avoid overreacting militarily. Goldstein’s expertise on the China-Russia relationship – which includes fluency in both languages and a book on the topic in progress – has arguably never been more needed. At Watson, he has hosted a weekly seminar, open to all, to discuss the unfolding conflict in Ukraine – a conflict he all but predicted in an article he wrote two years ago urging “adroit US diplomacy” to improve Russia’s relationship with Ukraine. He and Steinfeld are also planning a series of lectures over the coming semesters that will dive deeply, one at a time, into China’s main relationships– with Russia, the Korean Peninsula, Japan, and India. The ability to collaborate with the recently endowed Saxena Center for Contemporary South Asia is a real asset, he says. Bringing scholars like Goldstein and Seligsohn to the China Initiative, says Steinfeld, “is all part of building a community.” - Sarah C. Baldwin Share Contact Jobs WATSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 watson_institute@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute