Skip to content Menu About People Administration Advisory Committee Faculty Faculty Affiliates DS DUG Student Spotlight Student Achievement Advising Requirements Pre-approved courses Language Capstone Study Abroad Timeline for DS Concentrators Declaring DS FAQ Honors Senior Thesis Thesis Writing Guide Thesis Due Dates Thesis Archive Advising Key Dates Resources Alumni & Careers Opportunities Student Spotlight 2019-20 Enid Wilson Undergraduate Travel Fellowship Recipients Tabitha Payne, '20 Golden Voice Tabitha Payne studies LGBTQI Cambodia in past and present through ethnographic participatory-action fieldwork a with a local LGBTQI and marginalized people’s rights group, CamASEAN Youth’s Future. Mohammed-Reda Semlani, ‘20 The Economic Impact of the Argan Tree on the Local Communities in Southwestern Morocco For his honors thesis, Reda investigates the economic, environmental, and social impacts of the Argan oil market on indigenous North African (Amazigh) women and their communities in Morocco. Student Articles Love in the Time of Genocide by Tabitha Payne (DS '20) Published August 2, 2019 AMONG THE IGUANAS: On life and the pursuit of death in Guantánamo Bay by Jessica Bram Murphy (DS '19) Illustration by Giacomo Sartorelli Published March 15, 2019 Misreadings and Misgivings: Understanding the Venezuelan Presidential Crisis By Oriana Van Praag (DS '20) Illustration by Katya Lebowe-Stoll Published February 8, 2019 RESOURCES Cross-fertilization! Center for Latin American and Carribean Studies Upcoming Events Native American and Indigenous Studies (NAIS) Bulletin DS DUG The DS DUG is an organization led by undergraduate DS concentrators serving the dual purpose of organizing DS-related campus-wide events and advocating for increased university resources to continue the expansion of the DS program. Get involved. Join the DS DUG today! WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU Thoughts to share? Interested in getting involved? SPECIAL EXHIBITS What would happen if we took an important sweep of U.S. history--including that having to do with settler colonialism, slavery and exclusion-- as foundational to the field of development as ideas, policy practice, and discourse? Professor Geri Augusto's Fall 2020 IAPA seminar, Development's Visual Imaginaries, took up the challenge to do so, exploring legislation and decrees, but also paintings, postcards, and early photographs and films. Publics, the students found, were persuaded to support or oppose policies constructed around notions such as progress, technology, modernization, sovereignty, land/human/water relations, hierarchies of human difference, borders and immigration, citizenship and selfhood as much by their visual framing as by spoken and written words. The student-and-professor co-curated exhibit Out of Frame shares their own visual work as a way of inquiry, questioning and storytelling, to fill in some of the lacunae in the history of development studies, and especially to imagine narratives that were silenced, distorted or occluded. View exhibit >> Rivers and bays, plants and seeds, dignity and displacement, livelihoods and dispossession, staying put and fleeing: these were elements around which four scholars—three Brown University students writing senior theses and one professor, all studying the idea of development critically—found common territory, over the past year, for interrogating received notions, for letting peoples’ histories speak beyond the written archives, and for aesthetics-in-practice. View exhibit >> Updates and information about Brown University's continued preparedness, action and response to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Visit website Student Spotlight Out of Frame: Visual Counter-Narratives Reframing Development Studies Meet Watson's Concentration Student Assistants Student Spotlight: Rita Slaoui ’23 New Faculty Leadership Roles Student Spotlight: Katrina Northrop '19 DEVELOPMENT STUDIES PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 dsprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute