Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Alumni IR alumni are a vital resource for current students in the International Relations Program at Brown, particularly as students explore career opportunities. There are many ways alumni can help. We welcome and appreciate every contribution. Reimbursement of travel expenses may be an option as are opportunities to participate virtually. If you would like to become involved please contact us at irprogram@brown.edu. Opportunities for IR alumni to engage include: Brown Degree Day Career Panels Talk to current students about your career with a small group of other IR alumni to give an overview of the field, provide a deeper understanding of the diverse work within a particular organization, or the path you took along the way. Brown Bags Meet informally over breakfast or lunch to discuss your career and provide feedback to a smaller group of students on their interest in your field. Presentations Speak on a specific professional development topic or subject. Informational Interviews Meet one-on-one with students to talk more in depth about your career path and provide specific feedback on how a student's interest and background would fit into your field. Employer Site Visits Host a group of students at your place of employment. Arrange for them to meet with a group of alumni and human resources staff. Mr. Kang ("Rock") Huang '70 discusses career path options with a group of IR students. Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute