Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients Advising Advising The IR Program has numerous advising resources, as described below. Students are encouraged to seek advice whenever the need arises and as often as necessary. Students tend to seek advising freshman and sophomore year when they are considering filing a concentration, planning courses, and discussing study abroad options and junior and senior years when they are seeking approval for abroad courses, working on capstone projects, finalizing their undergraduate career at Brown, and considering their future after graduation. Advising helps ensure that students pursue an intellectually coherent and challenging program of study rather than just any collection of courses that might happen to formally meet the requirements. Ivan Arreguin-Toft Director and Concentration Advisor Watson Institute 222 +1 401 863-3318 Office Hours Wed.....1:00-2:20 Thur....10:00-11:40 Make an appointment Concentration Director & Security Track Advisor Professor Arreguin-Toft is the IR concentration advisor and is available to speak with students on all matters concerning the concentration. This includes: comprehensive concentration planning course selection grade options planning study abroad or time away study abroad and transfer credit approval the Honors Program (thesis) independent study and capstone projects fulfillment of IR graduation requirements postgraduate plans and applications CPT application approval fellowship and grant advice university resources other procedural or academic issues that may arise with the university administration Brown-RISD Dual Degree (BRDD) advising Anita Nester Academic Programs Manager Watson Institute 220 +1 401 863 3244 Anita_Nester@brown.edu Office Hours Tue.......11:00-12:00 Wed........1:00-2:00 Thur......12:00-1:00 Make appointment Connect via Zoom Program Advising and Concentration Filing Anita Nester is a resource for all IR students (both current and prospective), and is typically the first stop for inquiries concerning the IR concentration. All new concentrators will file their IR concentration with Anita. She also provides support and answers questions regarding: filing IR IR requirements IR policies processes (e.g., how to file IR, transfer credits, ASK system, CPT applications) course lists general program information funding opportunities IR website IR newsletter Please feel free to contact her with questions about the points above as well as ways to get involved with IR and the Watson Institute. Drop by during open walk-in hours, make an appointment, or request a Zoom videoconference meeting. Claudia Elliott 280 Brook St, ofc 218 +1 401 863 1071 Claudia_Elliott@brown.edu Office Hours Fri..........1:00-2:30 Make an appointment Connect via Zoom Honors Program, Fulbright and Carnegie Dr. Elliott directs the Honors Program in IR and teaches the Thesis Seminar in the fall. In addition, Dr. Elliott is a knowledgeable resource for students who are considering applying for Fulbright Study/Research Scholarships as well as to the James C. Gaither Junior Fellows Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Ellie Papananou IR Student Assistant Watson 215 +1 401 863 3318 Eleni_Papapanou@brown.edu Office Hours TBD Peer Advising - IR Student Assistant The IR Student Assistant and also serves as a peer advisor, providing advice and helping current and prospective IR concentrators navigate IR and Brown. Contact Claire with questions about: the IR concentration declaration process course selection faculty teaching in the IR Program internship experiences study abroad experiences BrownIRDUG@gmail.com Peer Advising - IR DUG The IR Departmental Undergrad Group (DUG) leaders are a resource for students exploring the IR concentration. They lead and organize events for IR concentrators and others interested in international relations. IR DUG activities include: annual themed speaker series concentration information sessions and social events professor dinners advising hours career events Visit the IR DUG web page for more information and send them an email to be added to their mailing list. Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute