Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Undergraduate Concentration The concentration in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) leads to a strong, interdisciplinary understanding of culture, history, and contemporary issues in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Latino/a diaspora. Requirements are intentionally broad and flexible to accommodate the focused interests of students in understanding the diverse reality of this region. LACA features a wide selection of courses from departments across the university. For example, a student whose primary interest is the Caribbean might follow a course sequence that looks like this. We also have an engaged option. Concentration requirements include four themes: language, area studies, research, and internship/service work. The degree can also be obtained with honors. The department also allows students to pursue the Engaged Scholars Program. The Engaged Scholars Program (ESP) in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) is designed for LACA concentrators who are especially interested in making deeper connections between their academic work and local communities in Providence and beyond. Engaged Scholars combine hands-on experiences such as internships, public service, humanitarian, and development work with their academic learning in order to develop a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, social engagement. For more information, please open the Undergraduate Program Padlet or contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Erica Durante, erica_durante@brown.edu. Professor Durante will hold office hours via Zoom during the fall 2021 semester (link). Meet our concentrators! Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute