Skip to content Menu About Director's Letter Contact People News & Media In the News 2020 2019 News from the Climate Lab Podcasts Research Briefs Syllabus Bank Search the Syllabus Bank Related Courses Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 Student Spotlight: Zanagee Artis ’22 CSL featured in IMPACT: Research at Brown National Policy Documents Downplay the Dangers of Climate Change Syllabus Bank Makes Valuable Courses on Climate Change Available to Professors Worldwide Welcome to the Climate Solutions Lab Research Briefs A new bill could speed up American electrification by 20 years Climate Solutions Lab Postdoctoral Fellow Alexander S. Gard-Murray co-authored an article on the HEATR Act, a Senate proposal aimed at accelerating the adoption of heat pumps that would save consumers money and boost domestic manufacturing. MORE Listen Trending Globally Podcast On this episode, Sarah Baldwin ’87 and Dan Richards talk with experts about the relationship between war, technological change, and climate change. First, Sarah talks with CSL Director Jeff Colgan about how Russia’s invasion of Ukraine (and resulting sanctions) have altered the global fossil fuel market. They discuss the two different ways Jeff thinks this crisis could impact the fight against climate change. The second half of the podcast highlights the work of Deborah Gordon, a senior fellow at Watson and an expert on the policies and technologies that undergird the fossil fuel industry. In her book ‘No Standard Oil,’ Deborah corrects popular flawed assumptions about the fossil fuel industry and how these assumptions get in the way of finding a realistic way to fight the worst effects of global climate change. Syllabus Bank Contribute to the Syllabus Bank The Lab has developed a syllabus bank to make it easy for potential instructors of climate change courses to learn from what other instructors have done. The syllabus bank holds syllabi from post-secondary courses about climate change, taught in the social sciences more Climate Jobs Explore Climate Solutions Jobs and Internships The Climate Solutions Lab has partnered with CareerLAB to create a customized list of opportunities for students searching for climate solutions-related jobs and internships. The Climate Jobs list can be accessed via Handshake, and includes opportunities across a variety of career fields, including law, advocacy, policy research, and journalism. more Events April 4 The 2022 Barnes Lecture - A Conversation with Gina McCarthy 12:00pm – 1:00pm See all of our events In the News Turning up the heat on Climate Change Solutions (Interview with Jeff Colgan) May 23, 2022 IMPACT: Research at Brown Leaders of G7 industrialized nations increase support for Ukraine (interview with Jeff Colgan) May 8, 2022 BBC World News A Heat Pump Might Be Right for Your Home. Here’s Everything to Know. (interview with Alexander Gard-Murray) March 28, 2022 The New York Times Join Our Mailing List Get news from the Climate Solutions Lab in your inbox News from the Climate Lab Student Spotlight: Zanagee Artis ’22 National policy documents downplay the dangers of climate change Climate Solutions Lab’s Syllabus Bank Students’ Five-Step Climate Playbook Explains Energy-Efficient Measures One Hundred Days In: Is Biden Making Good on His International Climate Pledges? CLIMATE SOLUTIONS LAB 111 Thayer Street, Box 1970, Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 6884 watson_institute@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute