Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleAdvisingRequirementsCoursesNewsOpportunitiesResourcesUndergraduateGraduateEvents Menu About Contact Office Hours People Faculty Staff Advising Additional Support Requirements Declaring Capstone Reflection Paper Guidelines Submission Guidelines Honors & Senior Thesis FAQs Courses Core Classes Electives News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight Events Upcoming Events Events Archive 2021 2020 Class of 2020 Senior Theses & Capstone Award Winners Anonymous Feedback Fall 2020 Opportunities Grants & Awards 5th-Year MPA Engaged Scholars Program Brown in D.C. University Opportunities Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight News Archive 2015 GOP gains little attacking Obamacare (written by Richard Arenberg) December 21, 2015 The Providence Journal Richard Arenberg in the Providence Journal, "Last month, the Republican House of Representatives voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), by my count, for the 57th time. This time there was a bit of a change. The Senate passed a similar bill." more Report: 1,450 R.I. kids neglected or abused (comments by Elizabeth Burke Bryant) December 15, 2015 The Providence Journal Elizabeth Burke Bryant comments on a recently published report by a child advocacy group that states 1,450 Rhode Island children under the age of 6 were neglected or abused in fiscal 2015. more Donald Trump Has America's CEOs Nervous and Very Quiet, for Now (comments by Wendy Schiller) December 14, 2015 Bloomberg Wendy Schiller, chair and professor of political science, comments on the lack of involvement from corporations following Donald Trump's call to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. more "We are seeing you": protesting violent democracies in Kosova (co-authored by Michael Kennedy) December 14, 2015 openDemocracy Michael Kennedy and Linda Gusia discuss the police violence in the Republic of Kosova, noting "In other parts of the world, embassies do not normally evaluate the qualities of protest and police behaviour, but in Kosova, the “International Community” assumes a kind of tutelage over the political process. more R.I. Congressman David N. Cicilline leads round-table discussion on campaign finance reform (Wendy Schiller quoted) December 8, 2015 The Providence Journal Wendy Schiller, professor and chair of political science, gave remarks at a panel Saturday afternoon that focused on efforts to reform campaign finance. more EU Referendum, Übermensch Escapism, and Anglo-American-European Solidarity (written by Michael Kennedy) December 4, 2015 Queries Magazine Michael Kennedy discusses the EU referendum in Queries Magazine, "An EU referendum offers no solution to the issues that plague the world, and would only make things worse." more Jyoti Sharma Named Social Entrepreneur in Residence December 1, 2015 Recently the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy and the Swearer Center for Public Service announced that they will welcome Jyoti Sharma as as a Taubman fellow and Brown's first social entrepreneur in residence for the spring 2016 semester. Sharma is the founder of FORCE, a New Delhi-based nonprofit that works on issues of water security and sanitation, civic engagement, and sustainable development. We recently caught up with her to get her insight into social entrepreneurship and why she’s passionate about empowering local communities to manage their own water conservation and sanitation. more Communities of Character (Marc J. Dunkelman mentioned) November 30, 2015 The New York Times Marc J. Dunkelman's book, "The Vanishing Neighbor," is mentioned in The New York Times, by David Brooks who writes about community cohesion in schools. more NPR's Nina Totenberg: The Taubman Center Interview November 23, 2015 Before delivering this year's Alexander Meiklejohn Lecture, Nina Totenberg, National Public Radio's legal affairs correspondent, sat down for an exclusive interview with the Taubman Center, revealing her perspective on the changing dynamics of Supreme Court coverage, her approach to breaking newsworthy stories about the court, and the ambiguity of justice. more The U.S. Military in a Dangerous World: How Much is Enough November 9, 2015 Three U.S. defense experts — a longtime Senator, a former diplomat, and a retired brigadier general — share perspectives on topics ranging from how to handle ISIS to the recently ratified Iran nuclear deal. more Risa Heller's Six Smart Tips on Managing a Public Relations Crisis November 9, 2015 In a world of social media frenzy and digital news, public reputations are constantly at risk, warns crisis communications expert Risa Heller. Here are her tips for when, plan or not, the s--t hits the fan. more Tiny New Hampshire communities guard midnight voting tradition (comments by Wendy Schiller) November 4, 2015 Business Insider Wendy Schiller, professor and chair of political science, comments on a New Hampshire town's 100-year-old tradition of voting for presidential nominees at the stroke of midnight. more NPR's Nina Totenberg on 47 Years of Observing the Supreme Court October 29, 2015 Brown Alumni Magazine Nina Totenberg delivered the Alexander Meiklejohn lecture presented by the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy in the De Ciccio Family Auditorium on October 27. more ‘No Alcohol’ During Pregnancy Is Just Another Shame Battle in the Mommy Wars (written by Emily Oster) October 22, 2015 TIME Emily Oster on TIME, "The bottom line is that while there is clear evidence of the dangers of heavy drinking—especially binge drinking—in pregnancy, the same cannot be said for low levels of alcohol consumption." more Providence Talks program, aimed at closing income-based 'word gap,' learns lessons (comments by Kenneth Wong) October 13, 2015 The Providence Journal Kenneth Wong in The Providence Journal, "they have a limited amount of time. Thirty percent is typical with these kinds of programs." more Stephen Kinzer’s Top Ten Tips on Writing a Strong Op-Ed October 1, 2015 Stephen Kinzer, foreign affairs columnist for the Boston Globe, recently presented “Breaking Out of the Academy: How to Write Opinion Pieces for the Mainstream Press,” his tips on writing short-form for those in the Ivory tower. more How does R.I. get past the 38 Studios hangover? (comments by Wendy Schiller) September 30, 2015 The Providence Journal Wendy Schiller in The Providence Journal, "what Rhode Island has to do is learn from the mistakes of 38 Studios and not let it keep us from moving forward economically." more One in ten pregnant American women drink some alcohol, and 3.1% admit to binge drinking, a Centers for Disease Control study found (comments by Emily Oster) September 25, 2015 Daily News more New York Times Columnist Charles Blow on the New Civil Rights Movement September 24, 2015 Excerpts from the talk Excerpts from New York Times Columnist Charles Blow's talk, “The New Civil Rights Movement.” more A time for expediency and extreme measures? (written by Richard Arenberg) September 23, 2015 The Hill Richard Arenberg on The Hill, "The real danger will arise in 2017 if either party controls the White House and the Senate majority." more Policy Leaders Convene to Deliberate The U.S. Military in a Dangerous World: How Much is Enough? September 22, 2015 On Tuesday, September 29, 2015, three of the nation’s top defense policy leaders will convene at Brown University for a forum, The US Military in a Dangerous World: How Much is Enough? more Democracy and the Challenges Imposed by Freedom (comments by Marc Dunkelman) September 14, 2015 The New York Times Marc Dunkelman, fellow in public policy, comments on the challenges facing democracy, in an article on the topic. more The Key to Reviving American Institutions May Lie Next Door (written by Marc Dunkelman) September 9, 2015 The Atlantic Marc Dunkelman, fellow in public policy, writes about the loss of faith in government that Americans experience when they lose trust in each other. more Heading for a filibuster Christmas? (written by Richard Arenberg) September 1, 2015 The Hill Richard Arenberg on The Hill, "Perhaps the most significant filibuster fight could come on the resolution of disapproval on the Iran deal." more Waiver politics dominate in the absence of ESEA reauthorization (written by Kenneth Wong) August 24, 2015 Brookings Brief Kenneth Wong on Brookings Brief, "The state-federal tension on issues like educator evaluation is illustrative of the challenges associated with our decentralized governance structure in education. Federal direction has its limits, and states often face challenges and controversies that stem from internal state politics." more Why Won't You Be My Neighbor? (comments by Marc Dunkelman) August 21, 2015 City Lab, The Atlantic In an article on a new report that found that most Americans have never spent time with their neighbors, Marc Dunkelman, public policy fellow at Brown, discusses the reasons why people used to have more interactions with the people that lived around them. more Odd couple: Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump lead in early-voting US state (comments by Wendy Schiller) August 13, 2015 Yahoo News Wendy Schiller comments on Hillary Clinton trailing in polls in an article on the 2016 election campaign. “It shows that voters are very much looking for something different, and that there is a lot of frustration on the right and left in American politics,” Schiller said. more Florida's Privately Funded Passenger Rail Plan Chugs Forward Amid Opposition (John Friedman cited) August 13, 2015 City Lab, The Atlantic On City Lab, "[A] recent independent economic analysis conducted by John Friedman concludes that even under all optimistic assumptions, AAF will generate annual losses of more than $100 million and will be unable to service its debt burden." more The Governor Who Has Figured Out How to Fix Bridges and Pensions (comments by Wendy Schiller) August 4, 2015 Bloomberg A profile of Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo quotes Brown Professor Wendy Schiller on Raimondo's impact: “She’s very much on the national radar,” Schiller said. more Cheerleaders for war are still so wrong (co-written by Brian Atwood) July 31, 2015 Star Tribune Brian Atwood, senior fellow for international and public affairs, co-authors a commentary urging Congress to pass the Iran nuclear agreement and "recognize that this agreement has the potential to interrupt the downward spiral in the region, from conventional war and terrorism to nuclear conflict." more Opinion: How to separate the viable presidential candidates from the trolls and also-rans (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 29, 2015 Market Watch In and interview with Market Watch, Wendy Schiller says, "You can win delegates and that becomes a signal to primary voters and donors that you’re viable. Success builds upon success [under] proportional representation." more Report: US children left behind in economic recovery (comments by Elizabeth Burke Bryant) July 22, 2015 WPRO Elizabeth Burke Bryant on WPRO, "The area where we’re having the most difficulty in terms of these measures is in the area of economic well being. The area where, once again we are leading the country, is in children’s health.”" more Do You Know What Your Time Is Really Worth? (comments by Emily Oster) July 22, 2015 The Wall Street Journal Emily Oster, associate professor of economics, comments on an article about outsourcing chores and the value of time. "If hiring help buys you an extra half hour with your job or your kids, it’s worth it, even if in principle you could do it yourself,” Oster said. more Richard A. Arenberg: Same old game of chicken July 21, 2015 Providence Journal Richard A. Arenberg, lecturer in public policy and political science, chronicles how members of Congress have failed to come to a compromise on numerous occasions more The Science Of Grading Teachers Gets High Marks (comments by John Friedman) July 20, 2015 FiveThirtyEight John Friedman in FiveThirtyEight, "The hard part, as Friedman says, is to “make sure that when you rate a teacher, that you actually rate what the teacher has done, and not whether they had a bunch of very poor or very rich students.” more Gorbea mulls moving up R.I. primary (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 13, 2015 Providence Journal Wendy Schiller comments on Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea's expressed concern over the short time between the primary and general elections. In a state dominated by Democrats, Republicans would want a later primary to give them more time to persuade independents, while Democrats wouldn’t need or want that time because it shortens the time to build their base before the primary, said Schiller. more Steve Cohen ’75 on How to Get Op-Eds Published July 7, 2015 Steve Cohen ’75 — a lawyer with a background in publishing and teaching — has had remarkable success in writing opinion pieces for the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. Last semester, he shared insider tips for translating policy ideas to publication-worthy opinion pieces. more PawSox Stadium Forum Draws Sell-Out Crowd July 7, 2015 “A Providence Stadium: Strike-out or Home Run,” a public forum to discuss the pros and cons of building a 10,000-seat minor league ballpark in Providence, drew a filled-to-capacity crowd to Friedman Auditorium on June 9. more Taubman Center Sponsors First Rhode Island Family Impact Seminar July 7, 2015 The Taubman Center hosted the first Rhode Island Family Impact Seminar, “Economic Well-Being of Rhode Island Families: The Promise and Practice of Two-Generation Approaches” in March. more ObamaCare and the Reid rule (written by Richard Arenberg) July 6, 2015 The Hill Richard Arenberg on the Hill: "The filibuster has played a critical role for more than 200 years. It has been used to protect the privileges of the minority, particularly the rights to debate and to offer amendments." more Master's Capstones Engage Local and International Clients July 6, 2015 In May 2015, five the teams of public policy graduate students presented their research and recommendations to peers, faculty, and clients ranging from local government agencies and nonprofits to international and multinational non-governmental organizations. more Krieger, White Internship Programs Fund Policy Internships for Undergraduates July 6, 2015 The newly designated Noah Krieger Internship award provides funding for a policy student who is particularly interested in public service to pursue an unpaid summer internship more Too many questions remain on train's safety, viability: Front Burner (John Friedman study cited) July 3, 2015 Orlando Sentinel Furthermore, a recent independent economic analysis conducted by John Friedman concludes that even under all optimistic assumptions, AAF will generate annual losses of more than $100 million and will be unable to service its debt burden. more Taking stock of 2015 session (comments by Wendy Schiller) June 25, 2015 Providence Journal In a recap of the 2015 state legislative session, Wendy Schiller, associate professor of political science, comments on how well key people — Gov. Gina Raimondo, House Speaker Nicholas Mattiello and Senate President Teresa Paiva Weed — seemed to be getting along. “It appears, from the outside, that the three most powerful people at the top knew how important it is to work together,” she said. more Brown Welcomes MPA Students June 24, 2015 The Brown Public Policy Program recently welcomed the inaugural class of the intensive one-year master of public affairs program. more John Friedman takes part in event at the Brookings Institute June 24, 2015 On June 23, The Hamilton Project at Brookings hosted a policy forum on promoting financial well-being in retirement. John Friedman discussed his new paper on reforms to the landscape of retirement savings accounts. more Chafee takes on Clinton machine: At just 1% in N.H. poll, ex-R.I. governor still says he knows what it takes (Wendy Schiller quoted) June 23, 2015 Providence Journal Wendy Schiller in the Providence Journal, "Chafee wants to reclaim his legitimacy as a public servant. And I think he deserves to do that because he has been an honest, sincere participant in the public arena." more Holier Than Thou (by James Morone) June 17, 2015 Foreign Affairs Director of the Brown Public Policy Program James Morone in Foreign Affairs, "Today, there is hardly an aspect of American political life untouched by religion. God seems to be everywhere. The nation’s official motto is 'In God We Trust.' The phrase is printed on the nation’s money, affixed behind the Speaker’s dais in the House of Representatives, and engraved over the entrance to the Senate." more Under Control: How Did Mayoral Control Became Inevitable (Wong cited) June 17, 2015 City & State Study by Walter and Leonore Annenberg Professor for Education Policy Kenneth Wong on mayoral control cited in City & State. more Doing More, Not Less, to Save Retirees From Financial Ruin June 16, 2015 The New York Times John Friedman talks to the New York Times citing his study for the Brookings Institution’s Hamilton Project on what workers and employers should be doing to save more for retirement. more The Doctor Will See You (on Television) Now (Emily Oster cited) June 12, 2015 Next City On Next City, Emily Oster is cited, "A paper by Brown University economist Emily Oster quantified the impact of soap operas on Indian homes and found a range of impacts on health and gender equality." more Can Lincoln Chafee Have a Real Impact on the Democratic Presidential Race? (comments by Wendy Schiller) June 3, 2015 RI NPR Wendy Schiller comments on how former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee's presidential campaign, which he plans to announce today, could help democrats: "Certainly, I think to counter some of the negatives of Hillary Clinton you’re going to need people like Linc Chafee, like Bernie Sanders, out there, getting the Democratic Party base out the door." more Elorza presents three-part budget savings plan (comments by Wendy Schiller) May 22, 2015 WJAR Wendy Schiller comments on Providence's rising costs for pensions and healthcare, following Mayor Elorza's announcement of a proposed three-part savings plan for the city. Schiller says these costs are unsustainable. more Smart Social Programs May 11, 2015 The New York Times Anna Aizer, Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, co-authored a paper, "The Long Term Impact of Cash Transfers to Poor Families" that was cited in an opinion piece in the New York Times. Opinion writer Jason Furman uses Aizer's research to make the case that rather than increasing dependency, cash-transfer programs to help the poor have "substantial long term benefits for children." more Lecturer Theresa Devine Receives Comfort and Urry Prize for Career Advising May 4, 2015 News from Brown Lecturer in Public Policy Theresa Devine is among five faculty members to receive the 2015 Comfort and Urry Prize for student advising. Awarded by Brown's CareerLAB, the award recognizes faculty members who have been especially helpful to students in shaping their life goals and plans after Brown. more Republicans could push multiple goals through budget reconciliation (comments by Richard Arenberg) April 23, 2015 Washington Examiner Rich Arenberg comments on Republicans attempts to try to pass multiple significant measures such as comprehensive tax reform and repealing Obamacare using a special budget procedure that allows Congress to pass legislation with only 51 votes in the Senate. more Mayoral control of schools worked for New York City, but other poor districts haven’t been so lucky (comments by Kenneth Wong) April 20, 2015 The Buffalo News Kenneth Wong, chair of education, comments on mayoral control of school districts, noting that it's critical for the mayor to be committed to the role in order for it to be successful. more Shifting care: Will the promise of health care jobs be fulfilled? (comments by Theresa Devine) April 20, 2015 Providence Business News Theresa Devine, lecturer in public policy, comments on the local health care job market, noting that employment in that industry is likely to rise, but that much of this employment is likely to be outside hospitals and other inpatient facilities. more Taubman Center and Swearer Center Collaborate to Hire Social Entrepreneur-in-Residence April 15, 2015 Brown University’s Taubman Center for Public Policy and Swearer Center for Public Service are seeking an experienced social change professional to serve as a Taubman Fellow and Social Entrepreneur-in-Residence. The Fellow will function as an educator, advisor, and convener within the social innovation community at Brown. more Adjunct Lecturer MJ Kaplan Nominated to Commerce RI April 15, 2015 The Providence Journal Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy MJ Kaplan is among six new nominees selected by Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo for the board of the Commerce RI, the state's economic development agency. more Public-private ties in Jewelry District benefit schools, city, and state (by Christina H. Paxson) April 14, 2015 Providence Journal In an op-ed published Tuesday, April 14, 2015, in theProvidence Journal, Brown University President Christina Paxson shows how the Jewelry District can be the cornerstone of a bright future for Rhode Island — “a vibrant ecosystem of academics, commerce, and innovation.” more Report Finds RI Newborns Exposed To Drugs And Alcohol Nearly Doubled From 2006 April 13, 2015 Rhode Island Public Radio The number of babies born with exposure to opioid drugs and alcohol nearly doubled in Rhode Island between 2006 and 2013. That’s one of the more startling facts in the new Rhode Island Kids Count Factbook. Executive Director Elizabeth Burke Bryant said unlike earlier drug problems, this one is not concentrated in urban areas. more Craft beer brewers need tax relief (John Friedman cited) April 13, 2015 The Seattle Times Associate Professor of Economics and International Affairs and Public Policy John Friedman's research cited in the Seattle Times, "Nationally, the bill would save small brewers about $65 million a year — money that we’ll pour right back into the nation’s economy." more The Harry Reid Legacy That Could Radically Transform America (comments by Richard Arenberg) March 31, 2015 Talking Points Memo Richard Arenberg comments on Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid, who is retiring this year and may be most remembered for deploying the so-called "nuclear option" on Nov. 21, 2013, to abolish the filibuster for most nominations. "I do fear that the use of the nuclear option by Harry Reid and the Democrats has put the Senate on the slippery slope to the eventual elimination of the filibuster," Arenberg said. more How Engaged Learning Can Invigorate Higher Education (by Alan Harlam) March 27, 2015 Footnote Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy Alan Harlam on Footnote: "By integrating activities in and out of the classroom into a comprehensive learning experience, engaged scholarship enhances learning and better prepares students to pursue their passions and career goals after graduation." more Filibusters make for strange bedfellows (by Richard Arenberg) March 26, 2015 The Conversation Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy and Political Science Richard Arenberg writes about recent opposition in Congress to the filibuster and the need to maintain filibuster rules in order to protect the rights of the minority. more RI PowerPlayer: James Morone March 11, 2015 GoLocalProv James Morone, director of public policy at the Taubman Center, talks about his work at the Center and the Rhode Island political scene. more Ringling Brothers is finally freeing its elephant performers. It’s not nearly enough. March 10, 2015 Washington Post Natlie Prosin MPP '07, Executive Director of the Nonhuman Rights Project in Washington, DC writes about why elephants should be classified as "legal persons" instead of "legal things." more Rhode Island Ethics Commission endorses bill on expanding jurisdiction over lawmakers March 10, 2015 The Republic, Columbus Indiana The Rhode Island Ethics Commission, chaired by political science and public policy professor Ross Cheit, backs a bill to allow the ethics commission to investigate and decide all alleged violations of the ethics code. The bill would require voter approval of a constitutional amendment. more Slowing down on the fast track (by Richard Arenberg) February 26, 2015 The Hill Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy and Political Science Richard Arenberg on the Hill: "The normal rules of the Senate are more likely to assure that provisions of these agreements are fully vetted and that the minority viewpoint is heard." more Asia Nelson '15 Wins Scott Weiss Scholarship February 20, 2015 Public Policy concentrator Asia Nelson ’15 has been awarded a Scott Weiss Scholarship, a merit-based award granted to alumni from the T. Howard Foundation internship program. more Why Is American Politics So Politicized? February 11, 2015 Providence Journal Providence Journal columnist Edward Fitzpatrick writes about Marc Dunkelman's book, The Vanishing Neighbor: The Transformation of American Community. more Undergraduates Join Governor's Policy Office February 6, 2015 This spring, two undergraduate concentrators are working in Rhode Island governor’s policy office under the Taubman Center for Public Policy’s Governor Frank Licht '38 internship program. more Arenberg quoted: "Merely allowing the status quo to prevail keeps the Senate on a slippery slope." February 4, 2015 Talking Points Memo Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy and Political Science Richard Arenberg talks to Talking Points memo: "I believe that the line drawn between all other nominations and Supreme Court nominations creates a precedent which will not survive the first time a Senate minority filibusters the Supreme Court nominee of president of the other party." more Five questions with Richard Arenberg February 2, 2015 CQ Weekly Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy and Political Science Richard Arenberg sits with CQ Weekly to discuss ideas from his lagtest co-authored book, "Defending the Filibuster: The Soul of the Senate" more City and State Leaders Tap Brown Public Policy Program for Key Roles January 30, 2015 A professor, two alumni and a current student from Brown’s public policy program will begin work in key state and local administrative positions in the post-election staff shuffle. more Policy Work January 29, 2015 Five public policy graduate students are pursuing internships at high-level policy organizations in New York City, Geneva, and Washington, DC this semester. more Taubman Center Hosts State of the Union Event January 20, 2015 The state of the union is “_______.” Richard Arenberg, public policy lecturer and Congressional expert asked a seminar crowded with public policy and political science concentrators and graduate students to predict how President Barack Obama would complete this expected sentence in his 2015 State of the Union address. more Schiller talks to NBC 10 about her new book "Electing the Senate". January 12, 2015 Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Policy Wendy Schiller talks to NBC 10's Bill Rappleye about politics in 2014 and her new book, "Electing the Senate". more BROWN PUBLIC POLICY PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 publicpolicy@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute