Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleAdvisingRequirementsCoursesNewsOpportunitiesResourcesUndergraduateGraduateEvents Menu About Contact Office Hours People Faculty Staff Advising Additional Support Requirements Declaring Capstone Reflection Paper Guidelines Submission Guidelines Honors & Senior Thesis FAQs Courses Core Classes Electives News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight Events Upcoming Events Events Archive 2021 2020 Class of 2020 Senior Theses & Capstone Award Winners Anonymous Feedback Fall 2020 Opportunities Grants & Awards 5th-Year MPA Engaged Scholars Program Brown in D.C. University Opportunities Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight News Archive 2018 The most powerful person in America (comments by Wendy Schiller) December 14, 2018 U.S. News & World Report Political Scientist Wendy Schiller offers comments on Nancy Pelosi's political experience and influence in Washington. "She has the political force of character, and she has the temperament and the strategic instincts that come with being very experienced in the Democratic Party leadership." more Saudi Oil (interview with Jeff Colgan) November 28, 2018 KTRS 550AM Associate Professor Jeff Colgan joined St. Louis' KTRS After Show to discuss the impact of oil and the United States' reliance on Saudi oil. more Potential challenger endorses Pelosi for speaker as alternatives for unhappy Dems dwindle (comments by Richard Arenberg) November 20, 2018 Fox 11 News Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg offered commentary on the upcoming vote for House speaker, saying "The opposition is banking on this being a ‘change election.’” more 10 News Conference: Schiller, Levesque November 12, 2018 NBC 10 News Political scientist Wendy Schiller joined NBC 10 News to discuss the results of the midterm elections. more Midterm Scorecard (interview with Mark Blyth) November 9, 2018 Radio Open Source Political economist Mark Blyth joined WBUR's Radio Open Source with Christoper Lydon to discuss the results of the midterm election. more Trump, Pelosi take hard line on border wall funds ahead of lame-duck session (comments by Richard Arenberg) November 9, 2018 ABC 6 Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg comments on the upcoming plans of the current Congress, before the new Congress is sworn in in January. "Democrats have no incentive to agree to funding that they have steadfastly oppose except in the context of a broader immigration policy agreement." more Providence Mayor Jorge Elorza cruises to easy victory (comments by Wendy Schiller) November 8, 2018 Providence Journal Professor of Political Science Wendy Schiller said she believes Elorza's landslide victory is evidence that voters are pleased with the direction in which Providence is headed. "It matters how people view the progress of the city more than the actions of campaigning." more What do politicians do with leftover campaign money? (comments by Wendy Schiller) November 8, 2018 Providence Journal Political scientist Wendy Schiller said politicians usually hang on to leftover campaign money "until they figure out what the next steps are in their political life." more Pelosi as House speaker would 'show the power of the gavel' (comments by Wendy Schiller) November 7, 2018 Associated Press Political scientist Wendy Schiller offered commentary on Nancy Pelosi's political legacy and future, saying “Everything about the rules of the game, about achieving power, has changed out from under her.” more Bloomberg Daybreak, Hour 1 (Wendy Schiller featured) November 7, 2018 Bloomberg Professor of Political Science Wendy Schiller joined Bloomberg's morning show to discuss midterm election results. more The Senate is failing America. Elect Democrats to reduce acrimony, negotiate with Trump (co-authored by Richard Arenberg) November 5, 2018 USA Today Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg in USA Today, "At its best, which many Americans still remember, the Senate was the place where the parties came together, through extended debate and super-majority requirements, to find common ground to move our contentious, diverse nation ahead." more Professor Ross Cheit wins Beckman Trust Award November 1, 2018 Professor Ross Cheit was awarded the prestigious Elizabeth Hurlock Beckman Trust Award for inspiring a former student to make a difference in his or her community. more Political violence and elections in Trumplandia (written by Michael Kennedy) October 30, 2018 RI Future Sociologist Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "Even before the last week’s violence, I expected the Democrats to take back the House. This last week makes that anticipation almost a sure thing." more Exxon sued for fraud over climate change (interview with Jeff Colgan) October 30, 2018 PRI's The World Associate Professor Jeff Colgan joins PRI's The World to discuss the lawsuit filed by New York's attorney general that alleges that Exxon Mobil defrauded its shareholders by downplaying the threat of climate change to its business. more Campaign 2018: Melodrama aplenty in R.I. governor's race (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 29, 2018 Providence Journal Professor Wendy Schiller predicts incumbent Gina Raimondo will narrowly win in the upcoming gubernatorial elections, “People who thought there was a chance to beat [Raimondo] are more discouraged than they were a couple weeks ago and are going to be angry at Fung." more Are Republicans losing the health care debate? (comments by Eric Patashnik) October 26, 2018 FiveThirtyEight This weekly "polling roundup" quoted public policy professor Eric Patashnik, who said that “it is already clear that Republicans have made it even harder for their party to govern if they manage to retain control of both chambers and take another stab at dismantling Obamacare.” more Unpredictable governor's race dubbed a 'full Rhode Island' (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 24, 2018 The Boston Globe Professor of Political Science Wendy Schiller predicted that if independent gubernatorial candidate Joe Trillo gets more than 6 percent of the vote, the election will favor incumbent Gina Raimondo. more What's the worst that could happen in the midterms? For both sides, a lot. (comments by Richard Arenberg) October 24, 2018 WJLA Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg comments on what's at stake during the upcoming midterm elections, "Even some Republicans may no longer continue to support his most objectionable actions." more 10 terrible reasons why people don't vote (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 22, 2018 Care2 Political scientist Wendy Schiller says inclement weather often prevents lower-income people and the elderly from getting to the polls. more How much does the US need Saudi oil? (interview with Jeff Colgan) October 18, 2018 PRI's The World Associate Professor Jeff Colgan joins PRI's The World to discuss how dependent the United States is on Saudi Arabian oil. more Ex-Hasbro CEO funds campaign ad for Providence mayoral challenger Witman (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 17, 2018 Providence Journal Political scientist Wendy Schiller provided commentary on the mayoral race in Providence, saying "People judge records by their own experiences in a city." more Saudi Arabia hinted at a U.S. oil embargo. It's not 1973. (written by Jeff Colgan) October 16, 2018 The Washington Post Associate Professor Jeff Colgan in The Washington Post, "The United States could live without Saudi Arabia, but it would be costly. A positive relationship between Washington and Riyadh can help minimize interstate conflict in the Middle East — and keep a lid on volatility in global oil markets." more Political Scene: Pundits debate what ails the R.I. GOP (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 15, 2018 Providence Journal Is the dysfunction Rhode Island's GOP has displayed the last few weeks a symptom of a larger problem? Professor Wendy Schiller says, "In politics no one is ‘owed’ loyalty; they have to earn it, and in this case Fung has not done that with either Trillo or Morgan.” more Full faith and credit (interview with Mark Blyth) October 15, 2018 WNYC's On the Media This episode of On the Media looks at the story of money, from its uncertain origins to its digital reinvention in the form of cryptocurrency, and features political economist Mark Blyth discussing the history of money and how cryptocurrency could shape the future of money. more A future in flux: what next for the California Department of Education? (research by Susan Moffitt cited) October 12, 2018 EdSource This article mentions Getting Down to Facts, a research project co-led by Susan Moffitt, director of the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy. “Although the CDE (California Department of Education) could be an efficient source of instructional support for schools, it currently is not." more The climate is changing. Here's how politics will also change. (co-authored by Jeff Colgan) October 9, 2018 The Washington Post Associate Professor Jeff Colgan in The Washington Post's Monkey Cage blog, "Delaying action on climate will hurt the economy and create new demands on taxpayers for expensive, reactive measures. These outcomes can be avoided only to the extent climate-vulnerable interests can be mobilized before they feel the impact." more Who Will Reap the Whirlwind on Kavanaugh? (written by Richard Arenberg) October 1, 2018 Newsmax Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg in Newsmax, "Without the filibuster as a counter-weight against totally majority-driven procedures, Chairman Grassley (R-IA) and his majority were able to ignore fundamental demands. The minority was helpless to insist that all the necessary documents be produced to the committee." more 'Intergalactic freakshow' confirmation process for Kavanaugh carries lasting consequences (comments by Richard Arenberg) October 1, 2018 Fox News Senior Fellow Richard Arenberg comments on the Senate Judiciary Committee and Brett Kavanaugh hearing, saying "This is the new reality in Supreme Court confirmations and unfortunately is very likely to give us a Supreme Court more tainted by partisanship than ever before." more Detailed New National Maps Show How Neighborhoods Shape Children for Life (research by John Friedman mentioned) October 1, 2018 The New York Times In collaboration with the U.S. Census Bureau, Opportunity Insights, a research and policy institute formed by economists from Harvard and Brown Universities, including Associate Professor John Friedman, released an interactive mapping tool called "The Opportunity Atlas." The Opportunity Atlas helps predict how neighborhoods influence the trajectories of the children who grow up there. more Las Vegas high-speed rail venture gets new owner (comments by John Friedman) September 18, 2018 Wall Street Journal Associate Professor of Economics John Friedman offered commentary on Brightline's expected acquisition of a private rail project on the Las Vegas Strip. "...Friedman concluded Brightline would be unable to service its debt burden on the Miami train system, in a study funded by a citizens group opposed to the rail line." more Money game begins in race for RI governor (comments by Wendy Schiller) September 17, 2018 NBC 10 News Political scientist Wendy Schiller said of Rhode Island's third-party gubernatorial candidate Joe Trillo that "people seem to know him, they seem to want to hear from him, and he's really gaining some popular support." more Gina Raimondo, Rhode Island governor, turns back liberal challenge in primary (comments by Wendy Schiller) September 13, 2018 The New York Times Political scientist Wendy Schiller said a percentage of people affected by pension reform in Rhode Island "won't forgive" Gov. Gina Raimondo, while others simply "don't like a woman at the helm." more Ohio can save the American dream, repel robot revolution with better job skills, mayors are told (comments by John Friedman) September 12, 2018 Cleveland Plain Dealer Economist John Friedman said the dream of faring better than one's parents has been dwindling every year since the 1960s. "Friedman is working with Ohio State and more than 300 other colleges nationwide to find out what's helping people advance and holding them back." more Steve Bannon-New Yorker episode: Is engaging with those you abhor appeasement or liberalism? (comments by Ashutosh Varshney) September 6, 2018 The Print After backlash and protest from the invitation of Steve Bannon to The New Yorker's fall festival, the magazine withdrew his invitation. Professor Ashutosh Varshney argues that, though he finds them disturbing, Bannon's views should be heard and challenged. "Though deeply disturbing and wrong, this view shouldn’t – and can’t at this moment— be brushed aside." more Supreme Court ruling could pave a path to better schools (John Friedman mentioned) August 13, 2018 Barrons This article about the implications of the Supreme Court ruling on union membership focuses on its impact on teachers. It notes that economist John Friedman and his colleagues found that students of good teachers are less likely to experience teenage pregnancy, more likely to go to selective colleges, and end up earning more money as adults than students from comparable backgrounds who had worse teachers. more 'A battle between Hindutva and Hinduism is coming' (written by Ashutosh Varshney) August 13, 2018 The Indian Express In a conversation with Professor Ashutosh Varshney, author Walter Andersen speaks of the changing nature of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, how it was influenced by its different sarsangchalaks and the challenges that lie ahead of the organisation. more Brown war chest lags far behind Raimondo in R.I. governor's race (comments by Wendy Schiller) August 2, 2018 The Providence Journal Democratic candidate for governor Matt Brown faces high financial hurdles in his race to unseat Gov. Gina Raimondo this year. Professor Wendy Schiller said financial struggles in August of an election year can "indicate there isn't a groundswell of support." more Midday Briefing: Professor Richard Arenberg on the Helsinki Summit (SiriusXM News & Issues) July 23, 2018 SiriusXM News & Issues Richard Arenberg, Visiting Lecturer in Political Science, joined The Midday Briefing on SiriusXM's News & Issues to break down the Helsinki Summit and how the United States should move forward with Russia. more 4 reasons NOT to buy a $493 million Mega Millions ticket (research by Emily Oster cited) July 23, 2018 Market Watch The Mega Millions jackpot is now $493 million ahead of Tuesday's draw at 11 p.m., the fifth largest jackpot in history. A study by economist Emily Oster found that the lottery jackpot only becomes "progressive" -- meaning high earners spend more on tickets than low earners -- when the jackpot is at least $806 million. more Grime Beneath the Glitter (written by Ashutosh Varshney) July 21, 2018 The Indian Express Ashutosh Varshney discusses James Crabtree's book The Billionaire Raj and how India is living out the same "gilded age" as America did in the 1800s. more Michael Fuller: Fighting for incarcerated mothers (Watson concentrator featured) July 19, 2018 News from Brown Public Policy concentrator Michael Fuller '19, shares his experience this summer participating in the first Brown in Tulsa Kaiser Fellowship Program. more Amusing Archival Discoveries from the Cold War (Jeff Colgan featured) July 18, 2018 War on the Rocks This article features amusing archived documents from the Cold War period that scholars have come across during their research. Professor Jeff Colgan chose a 1975 report by The Church Committee that revealed a play related to Fidel Castro's beard. more All the scientific support for breastfeeding that the US apparently didn't read (research by Emily Oster cited) July 12, 2018 Quartz Earlier this year, the U.S. tried to weaken a World Health Organization proposal encouraging the benefits of breastfeeding. Economist Emily Oster pointed out that it's "impossible to disentangle" the most commonly cited benefits of breastfeeding, such as higher IQ and lower obesity rates, from socioeconomic factors. more Is China meritocratic? (written by Ashutosh Varshney) July 12, 2018 The Indian Express Professor Ashutosh Varshney in The Indian Express, "A true meritocracy would place equally meritorious students from rural or urban settings, richer or poorer provinces, on an equal footing...China modifies the principle in the opposite direction. Its quota system gives preference to the privileged." more Politically energized women running for office in record numbers (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 9, 2018 The Providence Journal More female candidates than ever are running for political office in Rhode Island this year. Political scientist Wendy Schiller said the establishment party's endorsement controversy and recent pushback against pay equity, abortion rights and new sexual harassment laws has received stinging national media attention, and outrage among far-left-leaning voters could spur big wins for progressive candidates. more Price of democracy? A 4-point growth mantra (Ashutosh Varshney mentioned) July 9, 2018 Deccan Chronicle In an article on India's capital, Ashutosh Varshney, Director of the Center for Contemporary South Asia, calls the country an improbable democracy -- poor, impossibly heterogeneous and multicultural, and heavily reliant on its colonial history. more The Health 202: Medicare for all is new Democratic mantra in congressional races (comments by Eric Patashnik) July 9, 2018 The Washington Post Progressive political candidates motivated by Bernie Sanders' insurgent run against Hillary Clinton in 2016 are advocating for Medicare for all as part of their platforms. Professor Eric Patashnik said that the political viability of the idea will ultimately depend on its details -- such as whether the program would eliminate the private-insurance system altogether. more Professor Michael Kennedy opines on implications of Singapore Summit and moral leadership (interview) June 20, 2018 Dan Yorke State of Mind Sociologist Michael Kennedy joined WPRI's Dan Yorke State of Mind to discuss the Singapore Summit between President Trump and North Korea's Kim Jong-un, and raise questions about the state of moral leadership in America. more Republicans are still trying to repeal Obamacare. Here's why they are not likely to succeed (co-written by Eric Patashnik) June 13, 2018 The Washington Post An opinion piece co-written by Eric Patashnik, argues that the law’s political vulnerabilities and Republican electoral dynamics drive conservative efforts to uproot it and yet conservatives are unlikely to be able to repeal it. more Unhealthy Politics: The Battle Over Evidence-Based Medicine June 13, 2018 Unhealthy Politics: The Battle over Evidence-Based Medicine, co-written by Public Policy program director Eric Patashnik, describes the U.S. medical system, the most advanced in the world, and its insufficient evaluation process of treatments that often become widespread. more Lincoln Chafee, a political enigma, eyes his old Senate seat (comments by Wendy Schiller) May 14, 2018 Associated Press Chafee has a record of fiscal responsibility and supporting liberal causes such as environmentalism and same-sex marriage, said Faculty Fellow Wendy Schiller. more How much of your news feed is propaganda (comments by Wendy Schiller) May 14, 2018 The Week Faculty Fellow Wendy Schiller said social media filters often give us a false sense of control over data breaches and propaganda. But, she said, the ability to hand-pick our sources actually causes us to stop screening for accuracy and balance, making us more vulnerable. more Why did China agree to Wuhan? (written by Ashutosh Varshney) May 1, 2018 The Indian Express Professor Ashutosh Varshney recently sat down with Harvard University's Roderick MacFarquhar to discuss Chinese President Xi Jinping's Wuhan summit with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. more Are America's colleges promoting social mobility? (research by John Friedman cited) April 24, 2018 The Hechinger Report Stories of upward mobility were once a key feature of American life. Children born in the 1940s were almost guaranteed to grow up and earn more than their parents did. But upward mobility has stalled, according to economist John Friedman. more Ashutosh Varshney mentioned on Fareed Zakaria's The Global Public Square April 23, 2018 CNN Comments by Professor Ashutosh Varshney were mentioned in a segment on the growing religious divide in India, on CNN's GPS with Fareed Zakaria. more The world's economists can't wait to get their hands on US tax returns (research by John Friedman cited) April 17, 2018 Quartz Americans' tax records are the best dataset for assessing income inequality and the odds that a child born poor can become rich. The IRS still only accepts a small number of applications for studies every year, and a list put together by economist John Friedman shows they are almost all from elite schools. more The Black Panther, White Supremacy, and Double Consciousness (written by Michael Kennedy) March 19, 2018 African American Intellectual History Society In African American Intellectual History Society's Black Perspectives, sociologist Michael Kennedy says, "It is about time that the Black Panther helps us move beyond the politeness accommodating white supremacy." more Brown University's Friedman on how big data can impact economic mobility March 12, 2018 GoLocalProv Economist John Friedman spoke with GoLocalProv in a live video about how children's opportunities to climb the income ladder later in life depend heavily on where they grow up and how big data can play a role in designing place-based public policy. more Five questions with: Susan Moffitt March 9, 2018 Providence Business News Providence Business News asked Susan Moffitt, director of the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, questions about her top priorities, the major challenges the center faces and the center's role in educating Brown students about American politics and policy. more Data Labs: Improving Access to Government Data (Justine Hastings featured) March 9, 2018 Digital Impact Economist Justine Hastings joined practitioners on a virtual roundtable to discuss an emerging data-sharing model that helps dissolve barriers to collaboration while safeguarding sensitive data. more The arc of history bends toward coverage: Health policy at a crossroads (written by James A. Morone) March 7, 2018 The Commonwealth Fund Political scientist James A. Morone teams up with The Commonwealth Fund's President David Blumenthal to look back at the Affordable Care Act's passage through a historical lens, beginning with Harry Truman's proposed universal insurance plan in 1945. more Brown University's Blyth on Brexit, Populism, North Korea (interview with Mark Blyth) February 28, 2018 Bloomberg In a video interview at the Global Financial Markets Forum in Abu Dhabi, political economist Mark Blyth discusses Brexit negotiations, populism across Europe, tensions between the U.S. and North Korea, geopolitical risk and the upcoming election in Italy. more Are You Getting Evidence-Based Healthcare? (interview with Eric Patashnik) February 23, 2018 Innovation Hub Eric Patashnik joins Innovation Hub to discuss evidence-based medical procedures and his recent book, Unhealthy Politics: The Battle over Evidence-Based Medicine. more Climate Change and the Politics of Military Bases February 22, 2018 Driven by the U.S. Army’s Project Iceworm initiative in Greenland, political scientist Jeff Colgan released a new study on the effects of climate change on military bases. more America's Secret Ice Base Won't Stay Frozen Forever (comments by Jeff Colgan) February 22, 2018 Atlas Obscura A U.S. project from the Cold War is turning into an environmental hazard, due to climate change, according to Professor Jeff Colgan in his new study. more How Sewing Robots May Put Human Hands Out of Work (Carrie Nordlund featured) February 21, 2018 Wall Street Journal Carrie Nordlund, Associate Director of the Master of Public Affairs (MPA) Program, joins Wall Street Journal's Jason Bellini for an episode of Moving Upstream to discuss the latest technology in the garment industry and what it means for the millions of people who work in it. more Raimondo releases information about controversial fundraising agreement (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 20, 2018 NBC 10 Professor Wendy Schiller comments on the recently released fundraising agreement between Rhode Island Governor Gina Raimondo and the Providence Democratic City Committee. more A Top-Secret US Military Base Will Melt Out of the Greenland Ice Sheet (comments by Jeff Colgan) February 20, 2018 Motherboard Political scientist Jeff Colgan discusses his new study on the impacts of climate change on military bases. “It’s not a high priority. In fact it’s a barely known [issue] in Washington." more Denying Nehru his due (written by Ashutosh Varshney) February 14, 2018 The Indian Express Professor Ashutosh Varshney in The Indian Express, "Modi is right to say that Nehru alone did not produce India’s democracy. In the Constituent Assembly, there was no great resistance to the idea of universal franchise." more President Trump Outlines US Budget (interview with Mark Blyth) February 13, 2018 BBC Business Matters Political Economist Mark Blyth joins BBC's Business Matters to discuss President Trump's budget among other things. more Efforts of climate change can complicate the politics of military bases, study finds (research by Jeff Colgan cited) February 5, 2018 News from Brown When Project Iceworm, an abandoned Cold War-era U.S. Army initiative in Greeland was shut down in 1967, military expected leftover materials would freeze. A new study by Jeff Colgan finds that now, the melting ice in the Arctic has remobilized some toxic waste and threatens to do the same at other sites. more College System Pushes Many Graduates Into Middle Class (research by John Friedman cited) February 5, 2018 U.S. News & World Report Research by economist John Friedman looks at 10,000 students who had been admitted to a CUNY program called SEEK that helps academically borderline, low-income students complete a four-year degree. more Analysis of the State of the Union (Wendy Schiller featured) February 2, 2018 Minnesota Public Radio Professor Wendy Schiller offers her analysis of President Trump's first State of the Union address with MPR News political editor Mike Mulcahy. more Higher Ed and the American dream (comments by John Friedman) January 30, 2018 Inside Higher Ed During a presentation at the annual Association of American Colleges and Universities meetings, Associate Professor of Economics John Friedman offered some good news on new findings on big data on intergenerational mobility. more Amid turmoil, Trump seeks a reset with State of the Union (comments by Wendy Schiller) January 29, 2018 The Houston Chronicle With his first State of the Union address tomorrow, President Trump looks to address the country and promote "building a safe, strong and proud America." more The "Tiger Mother" didn't let her daughter watch TV or Netflix until college – but you probably don't need to do the same (research by Emily Oster cited) January 24, 2018 Business Insider Research by economist Emily Oster is mentioned in an article about monitoring children's TV consumption. "If letting your kids watch an hour of TV means you are better able to have a relaxed conversation at the dinner table, this could mean TV isn't that bad for cognitive development." more A New Financial Geopolitics: The U.S.-Led Monetary Order in a Time of Turbulence January 23, 2018 In March 2017, political economist Mark Blyth co-hosted a multidisciplinary conference on "The New Financial Geopolitics," that brought about new research on the issue of global monetary stability. These contributions were published together in a new e-book published by Foreign Affairs magazine. more Emily Oster on Diabetes and Diet, Disease and Vaccinations and Debunking Pregnancy Myths January 19, 2018 Economic Rockstar Podcast Economist Emily Oster joined economics and finance lecturer Frank Conway on his podcast Economic Rockstar to discuss diabetes and diets, disease and vaccinations, and pregnancy myths. more After a Debacle, How California Became a Role Model on Measles (co-written by Emily Oster) January 16, 2018 The New York Times In The New York Times' The Upshot, Emily Oster co-writes about the 2014 episode that left 159 Disneyland visitors with the measles, and the policy change that followed in California that triggered a jump in vaccination rates across the state. more How the Eurozone Might Split (co-written by Mark Blyth) January 11, 2018 Foreign Affairs This article co-written by political economist Mark Blyth in Foreign Affairs is part of an e-book on financial geopolitics. "As a single-currency area, the eurozone formally has no internal imbalances." more Bring Back Earmarks (comments by Eric Patashnik) January 11, 2018 U.S. News & World Report Political scientist Eric Patashnik comments on the banned practice of earmarks, saying "Restoring earmarks is not strong enough medicine to cure the dysfunctions of today's Congress. Polarization runs much too deep. But it is still a sensible thing to do." more These are the states where infant mortality is highest (research by Emily Oster cited) January 5, 2018 CNN Research by Emily Oster is cited about the infant mortality rate in the United States. "In the paper, published in the American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 'we find that 45% of regional differences can be attributed to differences in birth weight, with lower birth weights in states like Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, especially relative to the Northeast.'" more BROWN PUBLIC POLICY PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 publicpolicy@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute