Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home About Director's Message Visitor Logistics Director's Message Welcome to the Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) at Brown! CLACS, founded in 1984, is Brown’s oldest area studies center. Our goal is to create a vibrant community of faculty, graduate students and professionals teaching, researching and working on Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Latinx and Caribbean diasporas. We have over 100 affiliates working in a wide range of disciplines in the humanities, physical and social sciences and medicine who help to drive CLACS’s dynamic programming of talks, cultural events and discussions of current events. We encourage interdisciplinarity in the study of these regions by offering an undergraduate concentration and doctoral certificate in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA). Every year, with the generous support of the Craig M. Cogut fund, we host visiting scholars who enrich our teaching and enhance our intellectual community. We also have generous donor support for graduate students working on Latin America and the Caribbean. We are committed to strengthening our academic community by providing more opportunities for faculty and graduate students at Brown to share their work, opening spaces for more collaborative research and teaching. We are also committed to engaging more closely with our diasporic communities in Providence and Rhode Island. CLACS is housed in the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs and is part of a dynamic environment of centers and teaching programs. We contribute to Watson’s commitment to promoting a just and peaceful world through research, teaching and public engagement. Patsy Lewis Director Visiting Professor of International and Public Affairs and Faculty Fellow, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Spotlight Kamala Kempadoo - Craig M. Cogut Visiting Professor of Latin American Studies, Fall '20-Spring '21 Visiting Faculty Spotlight: Irma Velasquez Nimatuj Interview with Cogut Visiting Professor Florencia Malbrán Felipe Martínez-Pinzón on the Colombian Referendum Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute