Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients Opportunities Award Recipients Student Opportunities NOTE The University has temporarily, but formally, suspended all Brown-related undergraduate international travel and programming for Summer 2020. This doesn't mean that students' pursuits of research and internship opportunities need to come to a halt! Students applying for funding are permitted to propose an alternative project that is domestic and/or remote. Please note that a detailed budget outlining all projected expenses is still required. Funding Michael Bhatia Fund for Peace-keeping and Conflict Studies study abroad, field work, internship Established in memory of Michael Vinay Bhatia '99, who died in May 2008 in Afghanistan, where he was working as a social scientist in consultation with the U.S. military, the Fund underwrites field work, study abroad, or thesis research by IR concentrators working on peace-keeping and conflict studies. It is awarded to a student who, like Michael Bhatia '99, hopes to deepen his/her understanding of a region or culture by traveling and studying there, with the ultimate goal of helping to promote cross-cultural understanding that might end or avert violence or military conflict. Amount: Project-dependent Eligibility: IR concentrator doing work for IR concentration credit Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application IR Research and Travel Grant travel, research, conferences, internships, special projects Awards that support academic activities for IR students—for example, senior thesis research, research related to independent work, conference participation, internships, and special projects. Students must complete an online application, including resume, transcript, and personal statement, secure an internship that is unpaid or pays $1,000 or less (includes salary, housing, and transportation) if the application is for an internship, and complete post-award requirements. Questions about the application process should be directed to Anita_Nester@brown.edu. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: Undergraduate student concentrating in International Relations in good academic standing, and returning to study at Brown the following fall Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application KoChon Fund public service, travel, research, conferences, internships, special projects A permanent endowment administered by the Watson Institute, the KoChon fund is utilized for a wide variety of research and academic activities related to Korea. For undergraduates, the Institute accepts applications to advance student research interests on Korean topics, offering one to two awards per year, which include the option of pursuing field research in Korea. Amount: Project-dependent Eligibility: All Brown undergraduates Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds The Marla Ruzicka International Public Service Fellowship public service, internship, research The Marla Ruzicka International Fellowship supports the summer plans of one Brown undergraduate who displays the characteristics of compassion, determination, and selflessness in the pursuit of international human rights, post-conflict rehabilitation, or international public service in its most noble spirit, and whose summer plans reflect those traits. Amount: Up to $4,000 Application deadlines: To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship research, internship The Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship is made possible through the generosity of Jack Ringer '52, who served in Burma after graduating from Brown. The award supports summer travel to Southeast Asia to conduct research or work in an internship. Amount: up to $4,000 Application deadlines: To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Student Conferences Student Conference on United States Affairs (SCUSA) fall semester The Student Conference on US Affairs is an annual four day conference hosted at The United States Military Academy at West Point. The purpose of the conference is to facilitate interaction and constructive discussion between civillian student delegates and West Point cadets in order to better understand the challenges that the United States faces in an increasingly global society. SCUSA delegates attend panel discussions, hear from high-profile keynotes speakers, and develop policy recommendations during roundtable sessions. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference (NAFAC) spring semester The Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference has become a way of bringing together the nation's future Navy and Marine Corps officers with their peers from other colleges and universities, both civilian and military, from across the country and around the world. Participants include prominent politicians, leading academics and public intellectuals, government officials, and foreign dignitaries—providing a unique forum for scholarly discourse. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application United States Air Force Academy Assembly spring semester Convened annually since 1959, the Academy Assembly is an undergraduate student conference held by the United States Air Force Academy, co-sponsored with Columbia University's American Assembly. Held on the Academy grounds at the base of the Rampart Range, this student- planned and executed conference provides a unique opportunity for qualified undergraduates to discuss a topic of contemporary significance. Student delegates are divided into small round tables and moderated by senior representatives from academia and government. Distinguished speakers provide expert perspective and information on the topic at hand. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Mellon Foundation Crisis Simulation spring semester The Mellon Foundation Project on Civilian-Military Educational Cooperation bridges the worlds of liberal arts and military education to the benefit of both. A five year project funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Project on Civilian-Military Educational Cooperation facilitates joint projects between educational institutions preparing the next generation of leaders in both sectors. The aim is that members of each group should better understand the other, reducing the “civilian-military gap” that could be a problem for U.S. democracy and society. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Senior Prizes and Awards THESIS PRIZES Mark and Betty Garrison Prize Awarded for the best thesis in international relations, foreign policy analysis, or diplomatic history. The prize honors the work of Mark and Betty Garrison who helped create the Center for Foreign Policy Development (CFPD) at Brown University in 1981. Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Outstanding Thesis Award Best IR thesis related to the Institute’s core research areas of security, development, or governance NON-THESIS PRIZES Anthony Riccio Prize in International Relations Awarded in memory of Anthony Brian Riccio, Brown Class of 1996, who lost his life in Moscow on September 20, 1994, to that graduating senior who has demonstrated an unquenchable curiosity about another part of the world, a commitment to the rigorous learning of a foreign language, an intrepid pursuit of study abroad, and a pride in his university and in his country. Applications must include a statement from the student justifying the nomination, a written faculty recommendation from Brown, and any pertinent supporting materials. Nomination deadline: Rolling deadline until April 15 Eligibility: IR senior To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Academic Excellence in International Relations Prize Given to members of the IR graduating class who demonstrated outstanding academic performance in the IR concentration. International Relations Concentration Service and Leadership Award First presented in 2009, celebrates that graduating senior who demonstrated outstanding leadership and dedication to the IR concentration and his or her fellow concentrators. Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute