Skip to content Menu About Student Experience The Watson Institute Living in Providence Curriculum Specializations Policy In Action Consultancy Required Courses Careers Alumni Spotlight Apply Program Costs Program Schedule Joint MPH/MPA 5th-Year MPA Admissions Events People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Events Admissions Events Events at Watson FAQs Contact Apply Program Costs Program Schedule Joint MPH/MPA 5th-Year MPA Admissions Events Deadline to apply: January 19, 2022 Learn more at an admissions event One-Year MPA Application Checklist U.S. Applicants International Applicants Brown University Seniors Transcripts from all post-secondary education required required: see below for transcript verification requirement required Letters of recommendation 3 required 3 required 2 required Resume required required required GRE scores Brown code: 3094; Department/major field code: 2204 We will accept the at-home verison of the GRE test Allow 4 weeks for scores to transmit and upload into your application file GRE test scores optional. Applicants who do not submit official GRE scores are required to submit a quantitative resume. GRE test scores optional. Applicants who do not submit official GRE scores are required to submit a quantitative resume. not required Quantitative resume optional if official GRE scores submitted optional if official GRE scores submitted optional Personal statement required required required TOEFL or IELTS scores TOEFL institution code: 3094 We will be accepting the TOEFL at home version or the IELTS Indicator exam, including the TOEFL ITP Plus exam for students in mainland China. More about TOEFL/IELTS on the Brown Graduate School website not required required* not required Important Dates Application deadline for all students, including Brown seniors: January 19, 2022, 11:59 p.m. EDT The application portal will reopen in early September 2021 for the next admissions cycle. Application Fee The application fee is $100. Quantitative Resume The MPA curriculum includes graduate level coursework in economics and statistics. You may submit a quantitative resume summarizing any relevant academic experience in quantitative study. Applicants are encouraged to list quantitative and analytical classes taken with corresponding course descriptions and grades earned. Applicants may also include information about work or volunteer projects that required significant quantitative analysis or use of programming languages such as Stata, SQL, and Python. Sample quantitative resume Personal Statement Your statement should outline why you have decided to pursue graduate work in policy. Discuss your interest in the policy field with specific focus on the policy area you are most interested in pursuing and how study at Brown will further your professional goals. Your statement should be 600-800 words in length. Mathematical Fluency To ensure your success in the MPA program, and the quantitative core in particular, we strongly encourage students to consider their mathematical fluency and take additional preparatory steps if their undergraduate coursework did not include algebra or pre-calculus. General fluency with the algebraic representation of math will be helpful in letting students focus on new material for the first summer courses. Incoming MPA students should be prepared for a rigorous program with a focus on these three areas: Algebraic manipulation, e.g. knowing that [X/Y + X/(X+Y)] = (X^2 + 2XY)/(Y^2 + XY) Graphing and Data (e.g. histograms, scatterplots) Calculus, with a focus on knowing how to take derivatives of a few simple forms There are many online courses or less-formal YouTube videos (e.g. Khan academy) that go through each of these concepts. The program also has a math prep module in May to help assess student’s math abilities and bring them up to speed. It should be noted, however, that the May module will not focus on algebraic or calculus skills. Finally, it is very useful for students to have an understanding of how to use Excel. The program also has an Excel prep course during orientation week, but it’s more of a refresher, so getting comfortable in this program in advance is useful. Merit-Based Scholarships For full consideration for merit-based financial awards, your application must be complete, including all supplemental materials (unofficial transcripts, and if applicable, GRE and TOEFL scores). International students are eligible for merit awards. There is no additional paperwork required. Most matriculated students receive some level of merit aid. Student loans are also available through our Office of Financial Aid to eligible applicants who submit the FAFSA by April 15. Transcript Verification for International Applicants In order to apply, all applicants must provide, at a minimum, unofficial transcripts of all past or current post-secondary institutions attended. Brown requires verified transcripts if: You have attended or are completing a degree at a post-secondary institution outside of the United States AND You are admitted to the MPA program AND You accept your offer of admission. We only accept WES evaluations. Please request the course-by-course report. Admissions Questions See our frequently asked questions page. Share Contact Master of Public Affairs Program, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1977 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 7742 watsonmpa@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute