Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleAdvisingRequirementsCoursesNewsOpportunitiesResourcesUndergraduateGraduateEvents Menu About Contact Office Hours People Faculty Staff Advising Additional Support Requirements Declaring Capstone Reflection Paper Guidelines Submission Guidelines Honors & Senior Thesis FAQs Courses Core Classes Electives News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight Events Upcoming Events Events Archive 2021 2020 Class of 2020 Senior Theses & Capstone Award Winners Anonymous Feedback Fall 2020 Opportunities Grants & Awards 5th-Year MPA Engaged Scholars Program Brown in D.C. University Opportunities Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight News Archive 2017 Why American doctors keep doing expensive procedures that don't work (written by Eric Patashnik) December 28, 2017 Vox Professor Eric Patashnik in Vox, "Eventually, the war over Obamacare will end. When it does, there may be an opening to have a sensible conversation about ensuring that patients receive treatments grounded in sound science." more What Gujarat means (written by Ashutosh Varshney) December 26, 2017 The Indian Express Professor Ashutosh Varshney in The Indian Express, "As the dust starts to settle, political reactions become clearer, and statistical details recede into the background, it is time to concentrate on the big picture that the recent Gujarat elections present." more 2017's Neediest Cities (comments by Margaret Weir) December 13, 2017 WalletHub Margaret Weir, professor of political science and international and public affairs, comments on WalletHub's roundup for the year's neediest cities. more CVS and Aetna: Will It Work? (research by Jim Morone cited) December 8, 2017 Barron's Research by Jim Morone is cited in an article about the recent announcement that CVS will buy insurance company Aetna. more What A Tax Overhaul Could Mean For Students And Schools (interview with John Friedman) December 7, 2017 NPREd Economist John Friedman joined NPREd to discuss what the tax overhaul could mean for K-12 students and schools. more Political panel (interview with Wendy Schiller) December 4, 2017 NBC 10 Political scientist Wendy Schiller joined NBC 10's political panel for a disussion on the tax bill, and state and local races in 2018. more Ethics complaint against town official to be investigated (comments by Ross Cheit) November 29, 2017 NBC 10 Member of the Rhode Island Ethics Commission and political scientist Ross Cheit comments on a conflict of interest complaint against a Coventry town official. more Don't tell a world class economist what to do (even if she is pregnant) (interview with Emily Oster) November 27, 2017 Baby Talk Economist Emily Oster joined Penny Johnston on Baby Talk podcast, and challenges the traditional pregnancy advice. more The Activist Putting the Heat on Rhode Island's Lefties (comments by Michael Kennedy) November 9, 2017 OZY Michael Kennedy, professor of sociology, comments on Rhode Island state representative Aaron Regunberg '15, who's running for Lieutenant Governor. more The Equality of Educational Opportunity November 8, 2017 Susan Moffitt, Director of the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, and Margot Jackson, Associate Professor of Sociology, recently co-edited a special issue of The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences. more How Bowling Became a Pro-Immigrant Sport in Rhode Island (comments by Michael Kennedy) November 8, 2017 OZY Sociologist Michael Kennedy comments on bowling becoming a pro-immigrant sport in Rhode Island saying the state, "has the conditions to 'become a genuinely exemplary place for how to meet the challenges of our time.'" more Realizing The Promise Of Choosing Wisely Will Require Changes Both In The Culture Of Specialty Societies And In Public Policy (co-written by Eric Patashnik) November 8, 2017 Health Affairs Eric Patashnik in Health Affairs, "Medical societies have a responsibility to educate doctors not only about the financial costs of unnecessary treatments but also about how their own practice styles can lower the quality of care patients receive." more Economist John Friedman breaks down newly released GOP tax plan (interview) November 6, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind John Friedman, associate professor of economics, joined WPRI's Dan Yorke State of Mind to break down the GOP's newly released tax plan. more Security and Russia studies experts dig into implications of Manafort, Gates indictments on State of Mind (interview with Timothy Edgar and Michael Kennedy) November 2, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Senior Fellow Timothy Edgar and sociology professor Michael Kennedy joined WPRI's Dan Yorke State of Mind to discuss the indictments of President Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former business associate Rick Gates. more Can you actually drink while pregnant? (comments by Emily Oster) October 30, 2017 Wine Spectator Economist Emily Oster comments on the rule to not drink while pregnant, saying "...doctors who have expressed the view that whatever the literature says, since we know that drinking a lot of alcohol is bad, we should tell people not to drink at all. They worry that people will overdo it." more Top public universities are shutting out poor students, report says (comments by John Friedman) October 26, 2017 The Washington Post John Friedman, associate professor of economics, comments on an article about the recent trend of selective public universities shutting out low-income students. more High Impact Higher Ed (interview with John Friedman) October 26, 2017 To A Degree Podcast Economist John Friedman joined the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundations' podcast, To a Degree, to discuss the relationship between higher education institutions and low-income students. more Unhealthy politics: The battle over evidence-based medicine (research by Eric Patashnik cited) October 25, 2017 Yale News A book review of "Unhealthy Politics: The Battle over Evidence-Based Medicine" that draws on public opinion surveys, physician surveys, case studies, and political science models to explain how political incentives, polarization, and the misuse of professional authority have undermined efforts to tackle the medical evidence problem and curb wasteful spending. more A Gathering Seeks Levers to Rebuild Public Good (Watson Institute faculty mentioned) October 25, 2017 Nonprofit Quarterly Public Policy Fellow Marc Dunkelman and sociology professor Michael Kennedy are mentioned in an article about a panel they participated in at the inaugural Greater Good Gathering, a conference "aimed to look 'deeply and cross-disciplinarily at how the means for addressing and promoting the Greater Good may be changing in today's world.'" more More work, less pay: Is the UK's low-wage economy working? (comments by Mark Blyth) October 23, 2017 Gears of Biz Mark Blyth, professor of international political economy, comments on the effictiveness of the low-wage economy in the UK. “There’s no way for labor to push up wages since no one goes on strike anymore and the unions are weak." more Political propaganda: then vs. now (interview with Wendy Schiller) October 23, 2017 Marketplace Tech Political Science professor Wendy Schiller joined Molly Wood of Marketplace Tech to discuss the history of political propaganda and how social media has impacted it. more Democracy without equality has led to "Ubermensch Escapism" (written by Michael Kennedy) October 23, 2017 RI Future Sociologist Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "We live in a world, then, of Ubermensch Escapism where we put our faith in a great leader like Trump or Putin or Orban, or in a simple decision, like Brexit. But these choices only make things worse." more Brown U. sociologists analyze NFL, Sen. Corker's dissension tax plan on State of Mind (interview with Michael Kennedy) October 16, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Sociologist Michael Kennedy joined fellow Brown professor Hilary Levey-Friedman on Dan Yorke State of Mind to discuss an array of headlines. more New Research Grant Initiative for Senior Theses and Capstone Projects October 12, 2017 more Political science expert Mark Blyth speaks on politics, economy, world views October 12, 2017 The Daily Nebraskan On Tuesday, October 10th, Political economist Mark Blyth participated in "Why People Vote for Those Who Work Against Their Best Interests," an event at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. more Lessons from the Brookings Institution (Eric Patashnik mentioned) October 6, 2017 Robert Pearl Blog Eric Patashnik is mentioned in a post about a panel discussion he participated in at the Brookings Institute entitled "What Does 21st Century Medicine Look Like?" more Theresa May's horrible, no good, very bad day explains why democracy is better than technocracy (co-authored by Mark Blyth) October 5, 2017 The Washington Post Mark Blyth and Matthias Matthijs examine the "impossible task" British Prime Minister Theresa May has ahead of her. more We know that evidence-based medicine works. So why don't politicians support it? (interview with Eric Patashnik) October 3, 2017 The Washington Post In an interview with Henry Farrell of The Washington Post, political scientist Eric Patashnik discusses his new book Unhealthy Politics: The Battle over Evidence-Based Medicine, and its findings. more Is Trump an asset or a liability for Rhode Island's GOP contenders? (comments by Wendy Schiller) October 2, 2017 The Providence Journal Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, said Republican candidates for governor in Rhode Island will have some challenges ahead of them if they want to unseat Gov. Gina Raimondo. more Of Raimondo, Immigrants and Road Signs (Wendy Schiller mentioned) September 25, 2017 RI NPR Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on when the style of "permanent" political campaigning emerged. more Why We Can't Have Nice Things, Like A More Rational Health Care System (research by Eric Patashnik mentioned) September 15, 2017 WBUR Professor Eric Patashnik spoke with WBUR about his new book, Unhealthy Politics: The Battle over Evidence-Based Medicine. more Why the tax reform crew may target your retirement (John Friedman mentioned) September 13, 2017 Next Avenue An idea by Economist John Friedman is mentioned in this article that examines why the retirement system in America might be in the crosshairs of politicians working on tax reform. more Brown U. Professor Questions Why Bannon Agreed to TV Interview (interview with Michael Kennedy) September 13, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Sociologist Michael Kennedy appeared on Dan Yorke State of Mind to discuss former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon's interview with "60 Minutes." more What America would look like if it guaranteed everyone a job (research by Margaret Weir cited) September 7, 2017 Vox Research by Professor Margaret Weir was mentioned in an article about what the U.S. would look like if everyone who didn't have a job and wanted one, got one. more Harvey caused a chemical plant explosion. Is that the next face of climate change? (written by Jeff Colgan) September 6, 2017 The Washington Post As Texans worry about the potential health effects from the flooded plant that led to a massive fire, political scientist Jeff Colgan wrote in his most recent op-ed that this type of incident is called a 'knock-on' effect of climate change and that political fights are likely to ensue over whose responsible for other 'knock-on' effects as the climate continues to warm. more Children of the 1% are 77 times more likely to attend an Ivy League school than poor Americans (research by John Friedman mentioned) August 17, 2017 Business Insider Children whose parents belong to the top 1 percent of the income ladder are 77 times more likely to attend an Ivy League university, according to a new paper published in the National Bureau for Economic Research. The paper is co-authored by John N. Friedman, an associate professor of international and public affairs, and economics. more Beyond The Streets In America's Postmodern Civil War (written by Michael Kennedy) August 16, 2017 RIOT Material Sociology professor Michael Kennedy in RIOT Material, "We need recognize the times in which we live and articulate a vision that moves us beyond not just this present, but also that past which got us here." more The Nitish echo (written by Ashutosh Varshney) August 3, 2017 The Indian Express Ashutosh Varshney, professor of political science, wrote an op-ed about Nitish Kumar's pragmatic choice to enter an alliance with the BJP political party in India and how it might influence other alliances. more How long can Trump's administration hang on without clear messaging from the President (interview with Timothy Edgar) August 1, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind On Monday, senior fellow Timothy Edgar joined Dan Yorke State of Mind for a discussion on the replacement of Reince Priebus with General John F. Kelly as Whitehouse Chief of Staff as well as the external image the United States is currently projecting. more GOP has been compromised by protectionism, sen. Jeff Flake says (interview by Wendy Schiller) August 1, 2017 Bloomberg Wendy Schiller, chair of political science, joins Bloomberg radio to discuss why established Republicans don’t want to work for Trump. more Of Mass and RI, Raimondo and Baker (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 31, 2017 RI NPR Wendy Schiller comments on a potential reason why Gov. Gina Raimondo's approval rating is lower than Charlie Baker, the Republican governor of Massachusetts. more GOP Should Move On to Taxes (interview with Wendy Schiller) July 31, 2017 Bloomberg Surveillance Political Science Professor Wendy Schiller joins Bloomberg Surveillance to discuss Trump's agenda and how the Republican Party can move forward. more Narendra Modi strengthens hold on India as rival turns into ally (comments by Ashutosh Varshney) July 28, 2017 Financial Times Ashutosh Varshney, professor of political science, commented on the recent political alliance between Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar, essentially dashing hopes of a mounted front against India's BJP party. more The "dos" and "don'ts" of pregnancy are deeply flawed around the world (comments by Emily Oster) July 28, 2017 Quartz Across cultures, women are bombarded with different messages about what's ok to eat during pregnancy. Emily Oster, professor of economics and author of "Expecting Better," said she didn't find any evidence that would suggest drinking alcohol would harm a fetus. more Assessing colleges' contributions to social mobility (research by John Friedman cited) July 25, 2017 Insider Higher Ed A new paper co-authored by Brown economist John Friedman examines the key findings of the Equality of Opportunity Project, which exploits a unique data set to assess the contributions that individual colleges make to intergenerational social mobility. more The meaning of India's "Beef Lynchings" (comments by Ashutosh Varshney) July 25, 2017 The Atlantic This feature on the origins of "beef lynchings" and the political turmoil that has ensued in India after the death of a Muslim boy includes a perspective by Ashutosh Varshney, professor of political science. more The class dynamics of breastfeeding in the United States of America (written by Emily Oster) July 24, 2017 Quartz Observations by Brown economist Emily Oster are mentioned in a feature about how breastfeeding has become a status symbol in American culture. more Political Scene: Topsy-turvy week for Raimondo (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 24, 2017 Providence Journal Wendy Schiller commented on Gov. Gina Raimondo's re-election chances after a tumultuous week that saw the governor featured in the New York Times, but also mentioned in poll tagging her as one of the "most unpopular governors" in the country. more The Trump Administration at 6 months (written by Jeff Colgan) July 18, 2017 Duck of Minerva Jeff Colgan in Duck of Minerva, "Even if Trump never becomes a dictator, he could do an awful lot of damage to US democracy, and potentially pave the way for an autocrat in the future." more Not Even the Art of the Fool: Trump's the Tsar's Dupe (written by Michael Kennedy) July 18, 2017 RIOT Material Sociologist Michael Kennedy in RIOT Material, "Trump’s political foolishness is not meant to clarify a problem; it is designed to mark enemies so that his supporters can enjoy a righteousness regardless of evidence to the contrary." more Senate GOP's healthcare problem is not Trump (comments by Wendy Schiller) July 17, 2017 The Charlotte Observer Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on a possible reason why Republican Sen. Jerry Moran hasn't backed the GOP healthcare bill. more Even the intellectual left is drawn to conspiracy theories about the right. Resist them. (Eric Patashnik mentioned) July 14, 2017 Vox Public Policy professor Eric Patashnik is mentioned in an article about conspiracy theories. more How to describe Trumpism in America: Don't focus on Trump (interview with Mark Blyth) July 14, 2017 CBS News To understand how President Trump rose through the political ranks, one has to step back and see how globalization benefitted the wealthiest not only in the U.S. but throughout the world, Brown economist Mark Blyth discussed during CBS News' The Takeout. more Firebrand Hindu cleric ascends India's political ladder (comments by Ashutosh Varshney) July 13, 2017 The New York Times The appointment of Yogi Adityanath’s to rule India’s most populous state “invests a certain amount of power in Yogi Adityanath that cannot be easily taken away,” said Ashutosh Varshney, professor of political science and international studies. more The economist who predicted Trump and Brexit explains how baby boomers ruined everything (interview with Mark Blyth) July 11, 2017 GQ In a recent GQ interview, Mark Blyth discussed a range of topics that included the rise of "alt-work," his thoughts on universal basic income, and the legacy of the baby boomers. more Researchers say you should go to college in a big city. Here's why (comments by John Friedman) July 11, 2017 Time The economic strength of a city could contribute roughly 15 percent more to the earning power of recent college graduates, economist John Friedman said. more Escape South Florida traffic: Take the train (comments by John Friedman) July 7, 2017 Wall Street Journal Economist John Friedman commented on the financial strain Brightline might experience if it moves forward with a rail service project in South Florida. more Political Notebook: GOP can't resolve health care (interview with Wendy Schiller) June 29, 2017 NBC10 Political analyst Wendy Schiller joined NBC10 to discuss the dilemma Republican's face in trying to "repeal and replace" the Affordable Care Act. more Democrats aim to blast Trump for favoring wealthy (comments by Wendy Schiller) June 27, 2017 The Providence Journal (AP) Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, commented on the Democrats' strategy for turning congressional districts over to their candidates and surrogates. ". . .the big obstacle for them [Democrats] is that the bill’s provisions do not take effect until well after 2018, and not entirely until 2025." more Tuition-free college a partial win for Rhode Island governor (comments by Wendy Schiller) June 26, 2017 U.S. News & World Report (AP) Wendy Schiller, political science professor, said Gov. Gina Raimondo's scaled down version of a tuition-free college proposal that drew national attention is still a positive outcome for Raimondo. more Presidential Scandal is Bad News for Our Healthcare System (co-authored by Jim Morone) June 23, 2017 Pagosa Springs Colorado Political science professor Jim Morone co-authored an op-ed about how the current health care proposal draws some parallels to healthcare reform efforts during the Nixon era. more Neo-racialism: The sociopolitical climate of Trump (The Sociology of Trump series) June 23, 2017 RI Future In this week's post on The Sociology of Trump, Don Riddle discusses President Trump and the conceptions of race in America. more Why you're probably gaining too much (or too little) weight in your pregnancy (Emily Oster mentioned) June 20, 2017 Reader's Digest Economist Emily Oster is quoted from a Time magazine interview that focused on weight gain among expectant mothers. more On the Rule of Law and the Rule of Loyalty: The Political Epistemics of Trump and Communism (written by Michael Kennedy) June 19, 2017 RIOT Material Sociologist Michael Kennedy in RIOT Material, "I have been waiting for President Trump to depart from this approximation of high communism, but in recent weeks, he only moves closer to this system-destructive disposition." more The battle over Medicaid (comments by Jim Morone) June 19, 2017 The Week Political scientist Jim Morone commented on the public support of Medicaid, which was expanded under Obamacare to cover more people and is currently facing deep financial cuts. more Dissecting law versus loyalty in the Trump era (interview with Timothy Edgar and Michael Kennedy) June 16, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Senior Fellow Timothy Edgar and sociology professor Michael Kennedy joined Dan Yorke to discuss this week's happenings in the Trump Administration. more The politics of President Trump's first term (interview with Wendy Schiller) June 14, 2017 Minnesota Public Radio Political scientist Wendy Schiller joined a discussion about President Trump's first 150 days in office and how recent controversies might be affecting his agenda and, more importantly, his ability to govern. more Norm Eisen, the indictment of Trump, and the resilience of America (written by Michael Kennedy) May 30, 2017 RI Future Sociology professor Michael Kennedy reviews the Watson Institute's Commencement Forum with Ambassador (ret.) and former Special Counsel for Ethics and Government Reform, Norm Eisen '85. more The impending Legitimation Crisis in Trump's America (written by Michael Kennedy) May 25, 2017 RI Future Sociology Professor Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "Simply, conflict does not, in and of itself, risk cultural authority. Indeed, others have observed that Trump thrives on crisis and conflict; some conflicts nourish his position and others threaten it." more Analysis on international perspective on Comey firing & Macron's victory (interview with Nick Ziegler) May 11, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Research professor Nick Ziegler joins Dan Yorke's State of Mind to discuss reactions to the firing of FBI Director Comey and to provide analysis on Emmanuel Macron's victory in the French presidential election. more Who says you need tax breaks for retirement saving? (John Friedman quoted) May 11, 2017 Bloomberg An article about how auto-enrollment and payroll deduction can be powerful ways to avert America’s retirement crisis includes quotes from John Friedman, associate professor of economics. more Political Nostradamus from Dundee foresaw the rise of Trump (interview with Mark Blyth) May 9, 2017 Evening Telegraph Professor Mark Blyth has earned a reputation as one of the world’s most respected political economists after predicting the election of Donald Trump and Britain's vote to exit the European Union. more My partner makes twice as much money as I do. What's the best way to split the rent (written by Emily Oster) May 5, 2017 Quartz Emily Oster, associate professor of economics, gives suggestions on the best ways for a couple to split expenses when one partner earns significantly more than the other. more People love to hate Congress. This new book reminds us why we should treasure it. (written by Eric Patashnik) May 1, 2017 The Washington Post Public Policy program Director Eric Patashnik reviews David R. Mayhew's new book The Imprint of Congress. more Brown economist discusses tax reform proposal (interview with John Friedman) April 28, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind John Friedman, associate professor of economics and international and public affairs, discusses President Trump’s proposed tax reform plan. more With New Research 'Lab,' D.C. Aims Big for Better Public Policy (comments by Justine Hastings) April 28, 2017 Governing Magazine Economist Justine Hastings comments on the trend of cities turning to social scientists and research labs to help answer and shape public policy. more Brown U. professors weigh in on French election (comments by Mark Blyth and Nick Ziegler) April 27, 2017 WBRU Professors Mark Blyth and Nick Ziegler comment on the outcome of the first round of the French presidential election that sent Marine Le Pen and Emmanuel Macron on to the next round. more Former National Security Adviser may have broken the law (comments by Jim Morone) April 26, 2017 ABC6 Taubman Center Director Jim Morone comments on the reported revelations that former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn may have received payments from a Russian organization. more The Liberal Order Is Rigged (co-authored by Jeff Colgan) April 19, 2017 Foreign Affairs Political Science professor Jeff Colgan in Foreign Affairs, "Those of us who have not only analyzed globalization and the liberal order but also celebrated them share some responsibility for the rise of populism." more The Raimondo Brand: Nation's top Democrats tout R.I. governor as icon of party's ideals + polls (comments by Wendy Schiller) April 10, 2017 The Providence Journal Wendy Schiller, political science professor, commented on the national attention Gov. Gina Raimondo is attracting from leaders in the Democratic Party. more Foreign-policy experts assess impact of missile strike against Syria (comments by Watson faculty) April 7, 2017 The Providence Journal Professors Michael Kennedy, Jeff Colgan, and Cathy Lutz comment on the impact of the missile strike against Syria in response of a chemical-weapons attack. more '1984' returns to the theaters, but it's not exactly a Trump protest (comments by Jim Morone) April 5, 2017 Fox Business James Morone, director of the Taubman Center for the Study of American Politics and Policy, comments on news of theaters around the country re-screening the 1980s film "1984," a film based on George Orwell’s 1949 novel about a government that manufactures its own facts and demonizes foreign enemies. more Western academics stand up for CEU in open letter to government of Hungary (Michael Kennedy mentioned) April 3, 2017 Budapest Beacon Sociology professor Michael Kennedy joins others in signing a petition to keep Central European University in Hungary open. more The "miracle" of Finnish baby boxes may not be in a box at all (comments by Emily Oster) March 31, 2017 Babble Emily Oster, professor of economics, said the healthcare benefits that come with the Finland-government provided maternity boxes to expectant mothers contributes to the country's low infant mortality rate. more Are we dealing with reality on pensions? (comments by Wendy Schiller) March 31, 2017 Providence Business News Wendy Schiller, chair of political science, commented on Rhode Island's fragile pension fund and the delicate balance the treasurer must achieve so there isn't another pension crisis. more The most useful language for English speakers to learn, according to an economist (written by Emily Oster) March 28, 2017 Quartz Economist Emily Oster took a multi-faceted approach in responding to a letter from a college student, who is undecided about which language to study. "You might also be interested in considering how influential a given language is likely to be in the future, based on an area’s anticipated economic growth." more In health bill's defeat, Medicaid comes of age (comments by Jim Morone) March 28, 2017 The New York Times James A. Morone, professor of political science, commented on impact the proposed health care bill would've had on Medicaid recipients. more Study finds low-income students do well after Vanderbilt, but few attend in the first place (interview with John Friedman) March 27, 2017 Nashville Public Radio Professor John Friedman commented on Vanderbilt University's student demographics and outcomes. Friedman is the co-author of a study that examined the role colleges and universities played in upward mobility. more America in the shadow of Russia (comments by Jeff Colgan) March 27, 2017 The Herald (Scotland) Political science professor Jeff Colgan comments on the Russian interference that plagued the presidential election and continues to trouble the Trump administration. more Story in the Public Square (interview with Michael Kennedy) March 27, 2017 The Pell Center Sociology professor Michael Kennedy joins The Pell Center's "Story in the Public Square" to discuss the role professors and intellectuals play in global change. more John Friedman on pulled healthcare bill (interview) March 24, 2017 WPRO's The Dan Yorke Show Economist John Friedman joins the Dan Yorke Show to discuss President Trump's press conference on the Republican proposed healthcare bill being pulled. more Brown University sociologist questions the moment of President Trump's downfall on State of Mind (interview with Michael Kennedy) March 22, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Professor of Sociology, Michael Kennedy, joins Dan Yorke to discuss the recent hearings with James Comey, Director of the FBI. more Dr. Michael Kennedy asks, "What Does It Mean To Be a White Ally, and Why Does It Matter?" (talk by Michael Kennedy) March 20, 2017 RI Future Sociology Professor Michael Kennedy gave a talk on March 10 entitled "What Does It Mean To Be a White Ally, and Why Does It Matter?" more Plenty of work remains in effort to close higher ed gender pay gap (comments by John Friedman) March 16, 2017 Diverse Issues in Higher Education John Friedman, associate professor of economics, comments on the gender wage gap in some of the most lucrative occupations. more Robots aren't killing the American Dream. Neither is trade. This is the problem. (co-authored by Jeff Colgan) March 10, 2017 The Washington Post Jeff Colgan in The Washington Post, "It does seem that automation has combined with international trade, particularly trade with China, to drive down employment and wages in industries that have traditionally competed with imports." more Conference In Bucks County Aims to Help Those who Help Victims of Child Abuse (Ross Cheit featured) March 8, 2017 CBS Philly Political Science Professor Ross Cheit was the keynote speaker at Buck County's Children's Advocacy Center's annual Conference on Crimes Against Children in Pennsylvania, where he discussed his recent book "Witch-Hunt Narrative." more Trump's articulation of the nation (written by Michael Kennedy) March 3, 2017 RI Future Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "As every nation, our nation is special, but perhaps a bit more special than others." more Donald Trump Learns that Reforming Health Care is Complicated (Jim Morone book quoted) March 1, 2017 The New Yorker Jim Morone's book, "The Heart of Power: Health and Politics in the Oval Office," is quoted in an article about Trump's realization that health care is complicated. more Point: ACA repeal threatens America's rural jobs (written by Margaret Weir) February 28, 2017 Sun Sentinel Margaret Weir, professor of political science and international and public affairs, wrote an opinion piece about health care jobs and related facilities disappearing in rural areas if the Affordable Care Act is repealed. more Teaching Democratic Erosion (written by Jeff Colgan and Rob Blair) February 28, 2017 Duck of Minerva Political Science professors Jeff Colgan and Rob Blair in Duck of Minerva, "Although we do not wish to professionally engage in partisan politics, as scholars we are alarmed by Trump’s willingness to transgress long-standing norms of democracy, tolerance and civility." more House speaker bashes governor over car tax, college tuition (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 27, 2017 The Providence Journal Political scientist Wendy Schiller comments on the timing of House Speaker Nicholas Mattiello's dismissal of Gov. Gina Raimondo's proposed free college tuition and car tax plan. more The conflicts and contradictions shaping Trump's Legitimation Crisis (written by Michael Kennedy) February 21, 2017 RI Future Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "Not all contradictions accompanying President Trump’s governance magnify the legitimation crisis increasingly apparent." more Why Russian spy ship off east coast matters (comments by Michael Kennedy) February 20, 2017 WPRI Sociology professor Michael Kennedy says a Russian spy ship lingering around the east coast of the United States isn't that unusual, but coupled with recent events is significant. more Presidents Day: Americans describe what the day and presidency mean to them (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 20, 2017 The Providence Journal Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on the significance of President's Day in an era with a "very unconventional" president. more Newsmakers: Political Roundtable on President Trump (interview with Michael Kennedy) February 17, 2017 WPRI Michael Kennedy, Professor of Sociology, joined WPRI's Tim White in a roundtable to discuss President Trump. more Maybe college isn't the great equalizer (comments by John Friedman) February 17, 2017 Inside Higher Ed John Friedman, associate professor of economics, critiques the research methodology of a new study that suggests graduating from college is not the economic equalizer many assume. more The looming Legitimation Crisis in Trump's America (written by Michael Kennedy) February 15, 2017 RI Future Michael Kennedy in RI Future, "Of course some believe the presidential election was rigged, but many more people believe that Trump’s legitimacy suffers because his excesses have not been tamed by the awesomeness of the presidential office itself." more Report: Colleges Can Level the Playingfield for Low-Income Students (comments by John Friedman) February 15, 2017 WABE 90.1 Associate Economics Professor John Friedman comments on his recent study on college access and upward mobility, as it relates to schools in Georgia. more El comportamiento errático del magnate no será domesticado (interview with Michael Kennedy) February 14, 2017 Clarin In response to the US correspondent of one of Argentina's leading newspapers, Kennedy acknowledged the difficulty of projecting Trump's likely future, but he said that one must "prepare for the worst." Spanish text. more Raimondo's midterm grades after first two years as R.I. governor (comments by Wendy Schiller) February 13, 2017 The Providence Journal more Trump is not a fluke: Why "Trumpism" is a global phenomenon (Mark Blyth quoted) February 1, 2017 Paste Magazine Before Donald Trump rose to presidency, Mark Blyth, professor of political economy, delivered a lecture on "global Trumpism" that hit several keynotes on the state of foreign and domestic affairs. more Love, Solidarity & the #MuslimBan (written by Michael Kennedy) January 30, 2017 publicseminar.org Michael Kennedy in publicseminar.org, "There is an overwhelming sense of momentum. Although the size of the protest was probably less than half of what it was for the #WomensMarch, many showed up on a chilly overcast day for an event only planned the night before." more Why Cal State L.A. turns most low-income students into top earners (John Friedman study featured) January 25, 2017 Christian Science Monitor More coverage on the in-depth college access and upward mobility study co-authored by John Friedman, associate professor of economics. more The case for Trump being a Marxist (interview with Mark Blyth) January 24, 2017 Marketplace Political economist Mark Blyth sits down with David Brancaccio of Marketplace to argue Trump's Marxist-ways. more Setting the stage for President Trump's first 100 days (interview with Wendy Schiller) January 24, 2017 Minnesota Public Radio Political Science Professor Wendy Schiller joined Kerri Miller of Minnesota Public Radio to discuss President Trump's inauguration address and his first 100 days in office. more First days of Trump era signal America's deepening political divide (comments by Wendy Schiller) January 23, 2017 New Hampshire Union Leader Wendy Schiller, professor of political science, comments on the unfolding political divide following Donald Trump's inaugural speech on Friday. more How Trump's Political Brand Captured the White House (Mark Blyth mentioned) January 23, 2017 International Policy Digest Political economist Mark Blyth is quoted from a lecture that, in part, explains Donald Trump's rise to power. more Can History Prepare Us for the Trump Presidency? (excerpt written by Jim Morone) January 22, 2017 Politico Jim Morone, Director of the Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, explains how the first American election between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson is similar to the present, and what we can learn from it. more Wendy Schiller joins Bloomberg Daybreak (interview) January 20, 2017 Bloomberg Political Science Professor Wendy Schiller joins Bloomberg Daybreak to giver her thoughts on President Trump's first day in office. more America’s Great Working-Class Colleges (John Friedman study featured) January 18, 2017 The New York Times A study co-authored by John Friedman on the role of colleges in upward income mobility is cited in the New York Times. more Saving Liberalism (written by Jeff Colgan) January 17, 2017 Foreign Affairs Jeff Colgan, Political Science Professor, in Foreign Affairs, "But when elites fail to give reasonable cues about who the 'other' is, people decide for themselves." more Chart: The alarming rise in maternal mortality in the US (comments by Emily Oster) January 12, 2017 WEKU With the U.S. being one of the few developed countries with an increasing maternity mortality ratio, Brown associate professor Emily Oster says home visiting programs may play a role. more Brown professor on Obama's farewell and future health care law (interview with John Friedman) January 12, 2017 WPRO Dan Yorke Show John Friedman, professor of economics and international and public affairs, discusses Obama's farewell address, and Trump's plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. more New Public Policy Courses for Spring 2017 January 10, 2017 more Why Republicans Shouldn't Weaken the Filibuster (written by Rich Arenberg) January 4, 2017 The New York Times Richard Arenberg, Adjunct Lecturer for the MPA Program, in The New York Times, "If the Senate is to end gridlock, reduce partisanship and begin to address the nation’s pressing issues, both parties must renew their respect for Senate rules — and the views of the people." more How can the US regain its mojo on R&D? (comments by Mark Blyth) January 3, 2017 Asia Times Brown economist Mark Blyth comments on an article focusing on the staggering U.S. spending on research and development. more Twitter policy transformations and Russian hacking analysis (interview with Michael Kennedy) January 3, 2017 Dan Yorke State of Mind Professor of Sociology Michael Kennedy joined Dan Yorke's State of Mind to discuss President-elect Donald Trump's skepticism toward Russia's involvement in the 2016 election. more BROWN PUBLIC POLICY PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 publicpolicy@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute