Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Affiliated Faculty Africana Studies Geri Augusto, Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs, Director, Undergraduate Development Studies, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Affiliations include Center for Study of Slavery and Justice, Native American and Indigenous Studies, Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Portuguese & Brazilian Studies, Science, Technology & Society. Anthony Bogues, Asa Messer Professor of Humanities and Critical Theory and Professor of Africana Studies. Specializations: Caribbean Studies. Patsy Lewis, CLACS Director and Visiting Professor of Africana Studies. Watson Faculty Fellow. Specializations: Regional integration, small states development, Caribbean. Brian Meeks, Professor of Africana Studies. Specializations: Social and political movements in the Caribbean. Besenia Rodriguez, Associate Dean of the College for Research and Upperclass Studies. Specializations: Black Latin American cultural and political history. American Studies Leticia Alvarado, Assistant Professor of American Studies. Specializations: Political contours of Latino abject aesthetic strategies. Kevin Escudero, Assistant Professor of American Studies. Specializations: Comparative ethnic studies, critical refugee studies, immigration and citizenship, law and society, social movements. Ralph Rodríguez, Associate Professor of American Studies, Ethnic Studies, and English. Director of Graduate Studies. Specializations: Latinx lit. and culture, graphic novels and comic books, queer theory, race and ethnicity. Anthropology Paja Faudree, Assistant Professor of Anthropology. Specializations: Indigenous social movements, language, and politics, ethnicity and nationalism, Mexico, Ecuador. Stephen Houston, Dupee Family Professor of Social Science. Professor of Anthropology and Archaeology. Director of Early Cultures. Specializations: Mesoamerican culture, history, cultural anthropology, Mesoamerican and Mayan art. Ieva Jusionyte is the Watson Family University Associate Professor of International Security and Anthropology at Brown University. Her research and teaching interests lie at the intersection of political-legal and medical anthropology. Jessaca Leinaweaver, Professor of Anthropology, Chair of Anthropology. Specializations: Transnational migration, adoption, child agency in Peru. Andrew Scherer, Associate Professor of Anthropology and Archaeology. Specializations: Archeology of Mesoamerica. Parker VanValkenburgh, Assistant Professor of Anthropology. Specializations: Landscapes, politics and environmental change in the Early Modern World, particularly in late pre-Hispanic and early colonial Peru. Archeology and the Ancient World John Cherry, Professor of Archeology and the Ancient World and Classics. Specializations: Changes in material culture on Crete in the 3rd and 2nd millennium, diachronic field survey project on Montserrat in the Caribbean Lesser Antilles. Classics Andrew Laird, John Rowe Workman Distinguished Professor of Classics and Humanities, Director of the Program in Renaissance and Early Modern Studies, Professor of Classics, Professor of Hispanic Studies. Affiliated with the Cogut Institute for Humanities. Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Scott AnderBois, Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences. Specializations: Semantics, pragmatics, Mayan languages. Joachim I. Krueger is a professor of psychology in the Department of Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences. He specializes in self and social perception as well as strategic interaction. Cogut Institute for the Humanities Comparative Literature Michelle Clayton, Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies and Comaprative Literature. Specializations: Modern and contemportary Latin American and European writing and film, avant-garde aesthetics and poetry, dance, art history, and media studies. Esther Whitfield, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature. Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Contemporary Latin American literature, Cuban culture and literature, Caribbean and transatlantic studies. Computer Science Ernesto R. Zaldivar Adjunct Associate Professor of the Practice of Computer Science and Deputy Director of Graduate Studies for the Master of Science in Cybersecurity. Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Mark Bertness, Robert P. Brown Professor Emeritus of Biology. Specializations: Conservation Biology in South America. Stephen Porder, Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Environment and Society. Co-Director of the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Graduate Program. Specializations: Ecology, biogeochemistry, geology, rainforests, Brazil. Economics Pedro Dal Bó, Professor of Economics. Specializations: Experimental economic game theory, political economy. Andrew Foster, Professor of Economics. Director of Population Studies. Specializations: Demography, development, education, empirical microeconomics. Education Daniel Bisaccio, Lecturer in Education. Director of Science Education. Specializations: Biological diversity education in Central and South America. Andrea Flores, Assistant Professor of Education. Specializations: Latinx youth's educational experiences; immigration, citizenship, and social belonging; Latin American migration to the U.S. Southeast David Rangel, Assistant Professor of Education. Specializations: Latina/os, social inequality, social stratification, immigration, sociology of education. Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Alberto Saal, Associate Professor of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences. Specializations: Continents, crustal rock, lunar magma, ocean islands, volcanic rock. Karen Fischer, Professor of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences. Specialization: the continental lithosphere and its interactions with the deeper mantle, and mantle flow and melting processes in subduction zones. Hispanic Studies Laura Bass, Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies. Associate Professor of History of Art and Architecture. Chair of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Cultural production of early modern Spain and the broader Hispanic world, theater and visual culture, fashion and urbanism, authorship, poetics, and literary canon formation. Michelle Clayton, Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies and Comparative Literature. Specializations: Modern and contemporary Latin American and European writing and film, avant-garde aesthetics and poetry, dance, art history, and media studies. Eva Gómez García, Lecturer in Hispanic Studies. Specializations: collocations and contrastive linguistics, Spanish language acquisition and cognitive linguistics. Adrián Hernández-Acosta, Postdoctoral Fellow in International Humanities in the Department of Hispanic Studies and the Cogut Institute for the Humanities. Specializations: Hispanophone Caribbean literature with a focus on formations of race, gender, and sexuality in the afterlife of racial slavery and under duress of colonial structures. Jill Kuhnheim, Visiting Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Spanish American literature, health care, contemporary representations of gender in Latin America. Felipe Martinez-Pinzon, Assistant Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Latin American literature, Amazon, costumbrismo, romanticism. Iris Montero, Assistant Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: History of science and medicine in the Iberian Atlantic, Mesoamerican visual thinking, colonial Latin American literature Julio Ortega, Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Contemporary Latin American novel and poetry, the theory of Latin American literature, especially Mexico and the Andes. Nidia Schuhmacher, Senior Lecturer in Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Spanish Language. Silvia Sobral, Senior Lecturer in Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Spanish Language. Sarah Thomas, Assistant Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Representation of outsider or marginalized subjects, particularly in the context of civil conflict or dictatorship and its aftermath, in Spanish literature and film. Mercedes Vaquero, Professor of Hispanic Studies. Director of Medieval Studies. Specializations: Medieval Spanish epic, chronicles, ballads, and oral tradition, Spanish philology. Esther Whitfield, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature. Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies. Specializations: Contemporary Latin American literature, Cuban culture and literature, Caribbean and transatlantic studies. History Linford Fisher, Associate Professor of History. Specializations: Cultural and religious history of colonial America and the Atlantic world, including Native Americans, religion, material culture, and Indian and African slavery and servitude. James Green, Carlos Manuel de Cespedes Professor of Modern Latin American History and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Director of the Brazil Initiative. Specializations: Modern Brazil, modern Latin America, gender and sexuality in Latin America. Evelyn Hu-Dehart, Professor of History. Professor of American Studies. Specializations: Modern Mexico, Asian migration to Latin America and the Caribbean. Jennifer Lambe, Associate Professor of Latin American and Caribbean History. Specializations: Mental illness and healing in Cuba, Cuban film. Jeremy Mumford, Assistant professor of History. Specializations: Indigenous movements, the Andean region. Mark Ocegueda, Mellon Gateway Postdoctoral Fellow. Specializations: Latinx History, Mexican American History, Labor, Race, Ethnicity, Recreation, and Public History. Amy Remensnyder, Professor of History. Specializations: Cultural and religious history of medieval Europe. Daniel Rodriguez, Associate Professor of History. Specializations: the history of public health, medicine, and disease in Latin America and the Caribbean. Gabriel de Avilez Rocha, Vasco da Gama Assistant Professor of History and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Specializations: the social and environmental history of colonialism and slavery in the early modern Atlantic world. History of Art and Architecture Itohan Osaiymwese, Associte Professor of History of Art and Architecture. International Advancement Office Joshua Taub, Assistant Vice President for International Advancement. John Carter Brown Library Neil Safier, Associate Professor of History. Director of John Carter Brown Library. John Hay Library Patricia Figueroa, Curator of Iberian and Latin American Collections. Holly Snyder, Curator of American Historical Collections. Specializations: Anglophone Caribbean, scholarly resources. Latin American and Caribbean Studies Erica Durante, Visiting Associate Professor of Latin American and Caribbean Studies (2017-20). Specializations: Spanish, Latin American, Italian, and French literature, from the Middle Ages to the contemporary era, as well as on recent francophone and Hispanophone literature of Africa and the Caribbean. Literary Arts Colin Channer, Assistant Professor of Literary Arts. Specializations: Cinema, fiction, interdisciplinary arts, poetry. Music Joshua Tucker, Assistant Professor of Music. Postdoctoral Research Associate. Specializations: Popular music and social change in Latin America. Political Science Peter Andreas, John Hay Professor of International Studies and Political Science. Specializations: Politics of borders and border controls; politics of transnational crime and crime control; the relationship between transnational crime and conflict. Robert Blair, Joukowsky Family Assistant Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs. Specializations: International intervention and the consolidation of state authority after the civil war, rule of law and security institutions, Colombia. Jeff Colgan, Richard Holbrooke Assistant Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs. Specializations: Geopolitics of energy, Venezuela. Juliet Hooker, Professor of Political Science. Specializations: comparative political theory and critical race theory, include black political thought, Latin American political thought, political solidarity, and multiculturalism, Afro-descendant and indigenous politics and multicultural rights in Latin America. Richard Locke, Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs. Brown University Provost. Specializations: International labor rights, comparative political economy, employment relations, and corporate responsibility. Richard Snyder, Professor of Political Science. Specializations: Comparative politics and political economy, government and politics of Latin America, especially Mexico. Rebecca Weitz-Shapiro, Stanley J. Bernstein '65 P '02 Assistant Professor of Political Science. Specializations: Machine politics in Latin America. Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Onésimo Almeida, Professor of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Specializations: Portuguese and Brazilian intellectual history. Patricia Sobral, Distinguished Senior Lecturer in Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Specializations: Portuguese language, Brazilian cinema, Brazilian literature. Luiz Valente, Professor of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies and Comparative Literature. Specializations: 19th and 20th-century Brazilian literature and intellectual history, comparative literature, the literature of the Americas. Leila Lehnen, Associate Professor of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies, Chair of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Specializations: contemporary Brazilian and Latin American literature, the intersection between social justice and cultural production. Jeremy Lehnen, Associate Professor of Portuguese, Spanish & Latin American Studies, Interim Director of Gender and Sexuality Studies. Specializations: masculinity and identity formation in contemporary Latin American literature, cinema, and electronic cultural production. Public Health Timothy Empkie, Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine. Specializations: Family Medicine in Hispaniola and the Dominican Republic, healthcare in Haiti Omar Galarraga, Associate Professor of Health Economics. Specializations: Comparative health care systems, statistical analysis of population-level datasets, and global health economics. Matthew Mimiaga, Professor of Epidemiology. Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences. Director for the Institute for Community Health Promotion. Specializations: HIV prevention, mental health, and substance use disorders, psychiatric and infectious disease epidemiology, sexual and gender minority health, global health. Religious Studies Thomas Lewis, Associate Professor of Religious Studies. Specializations: Liberation theology in Latin America. Sociology Patrick Heller, Professor of Sociology and International and Public Affairs. Specializations: Inequality and development, urban transformation, democracy, globalization - Brazil, India, South Africa. Paget Henry, Professor of Africana Studies and Sociology. Specializations: Dependency theory, Caribbean political economy, sociology of religion, sociology of art and literature, Africana philosophy and religion, race and ethnic relations, poststructuralism, critical theory. José Itzigsohn, Professor of Sociology. Specializations: Sociology of development, labor markets in the Caribbean, social movements in Argentina. David Lindstrom, Professor of Sociology. Chair of Sociology. Specializations: Demography, migration, reproductive change, Latin America (Mexico and Guatemala), Africa. John Logan, Professor of Sociology. Director of Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences. Specializations: Urban sociology, race, and ethnicity, migration and immigration, family, political sociology. Laura Lopez-Sanders, Assistant Professor of Sociology. Specializations: immigration, social inequality, and race and ethnic relations. Andrew Schrank, Olive C. Watson Professor of Sociology and International Studies. Specializations: Comparative sociology - political, economic, historical. Leah VanWey, Professor of Sociology. Senior Deputy Director (Research) of the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society. Specializations: Migration and household livelihoods in developing countries, community economic development in Oaxaca, Mexico. Theatre Arts and Performance Arts Iván A. Ramos, Assistant Professor of Theater Arts and Performance Studies. Specializations: The links and slippages between transnational Latino/a American aesthetics in relationship to the everydayness of contemporary and historical violence. How the aesthetic provides a way to engage with ethics of difference. Patricia Ybarra, Professor of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. Specializations: Theatre historiography of the Americas, theatre, nationalism, and American identities in North America. Warren Alpert Medical School Christian Arbelaez, Vice-Chair of Academic Affairs at the Department of Emergency Medicine and Associate Professor at the Alpert Medical School. Specializations: international emergency care delivery systems and public health and policy with expertise in Latin America Bruce Becker, Professor of Emergency Medicine. Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences. Specializations: Smoking cessation, refugee medicine, disaster relief, Nicaragua. Joseph Bliss, Associate Professor of Pediatrics. Specializations: Health care in Guatemala. Jeffrey Borkan, Professor of Family Medicine. Chair of Family Medicine. Specializations: Doctor-patient communication and narratives, Dominican Republic. Dr. Benjamin Brown is Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Clinician Educator at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. He is also an attending physician in the Division of Emergency Obstetrics and Gynecology at Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island. Suzanne de la Monte, Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. Professor of Neurosurgery. Specializations: Anatomic pathology, neuropathology, public health. Joseph Diaz, Associate Professor of Medicine. Specializations: Dominican Republic exchange program for medical students. David Egilman, Clinical Professor of Family Medicine. Specializations: Occupational medicine, health, and safety in the workplace, health issues in Latin America, Nicaragua, Cuba. Mark Fagan, Professor of Medicine. Co-Director of the Department of Medicine Dominican Republic Exchange Program. Timothy Flanigan, Professor of Medicine. Professor of Health Services - Policy and Practice. Specializations: HIV and Hepatitis infections in underserved communities. John Foggle, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine. Specializations: Emergency and trauma care, cultural context, Nicaragua. Roberta Goldman, Clinical Professor of Family Medicine. Specializations: Mid-life changes among Spanish-speaking Latinas, barriers to care in U.S. Hispanic communities. Emily Harrison, Clinical Associate Professor of Family Medicine. Specializations: Health care in Honduras. Rami Kantor, Associate Professor of Medicine. Specializations: HIV treatment monitoring, diversity, molecular epidemiology, evolution of resistance to antiretroviral drugs. Michael Lepore, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy, and Practice. Specializations: Medicare, Medicaid, early childhood care. Simin Liu, Professor of Epidemiology. Professor of Medicine. Specializations: Pharmacoepidemiology, aging, cardiovascular disease, clinical trials, diabetes, endocrinology, meta-analysis, molecular genetics, nutrition, obesity, sex hormones. Stephen McGarvey, Professor of Epidemiology. Director of the International Health Institute. Specializations: International health and environmental issues, global health. Katelyn Moretti, Global Emergency Medicine Fellow. Specializations: integration of refugees into the US medical system, access to emergency care in post-conflict Colombia Amy Nunn, Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences. Assistant Professor of Medicine. Specializations: Generic medicines for HIV in Brazil and other developing countries. Pablo Rodriguez, Clinical Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Specializations: Health care in the Dominican Republic. Barbara Stonestreet, Professor of Pediatrics. Specializations: Health care in the Dominican Republic. Patrick Vivier, Royce Family Associate Professor of Teaching Excellence. Associate Professor of Health Services - Policy and Practice. Specializations: Medicaid managed care, childhood obesity, health issues for low-income families, health services research, immunizations, information technology, lead poisoning, preventive services. Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs Andrew Blackadar, Director of Curriculum Development for the Choices Program. Specializations: International topics for high school social studies classrooms, Brazil's transition to democracy. Claudia Elliott, Associate Director of the International Relations Program. Senior Lecturer in International Studies. Faculty Fellow. Specializations: Theory of democracy and democratization, electoral reform, comparative democratization, political representation, Latin America, Venezuela, Mexico. Stephen Kinzer, Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs. Specializations: American foreign policy, journalism, political science, Latin American regime-change Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute