Skip to content Menu About Welcome FAQs People Administration Faculty Staff DUG Student Experience Advising Requirements Declaring IAPA Gateway Tracks Junior Seminar Research Methods Language Opportunities Capstone Honors in International & Public Affairs Courses Electives Courses - Fall 2021/Spring 2022 Student Opportunities Announcements Independent Research Opportunities Student Opportunities See the Watson Institute Undergraduate Student Opportunities page for additional resources. Brown Experiential Learning Opportunity Students complete internships alongside customized coursework for the opportunity to earn 4 and up to 5 credits. Programs run from June through December 2022. More information, including this FAQ, is available at the College's website. The BE Brown Program Application is now available and will remain open until 5:00 pm on Friday March 18th. In addition to completing the application form, applicants are asked to submit one letter of recommendation from a Brown faculty or staff member. Letters and questions about the application can be directed to Experiential_Learning@brown.edu. Programs Berlin: Research & Entrepreneurship Boston: BioTech & Life Sciences US: Campaigns & Social Change Virtual Office Hours will be offered twice weekly through the application deadline: on Tuesdays (March 8, and March 15) 10:00 a.m.-11:30 p.m. and Fridays (March 4, and March 11, and March 18) at 1:00-2:00 p.m. Funding Richard C. Barker '57 LHD'09 hon., P'03, P'05 Award for International and Public Affairs Financial support for undergraduate students concentrating in International and Public Affairs for senior thesis research, research related to independent work, conference participation, internships, and/or travel. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: Concentrators in International and Public Affairs (IAPA) Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds John P Birkelund Fund For Diplomacy The fund will support student internships related to foreign policy and diplomacy, research projects, symposia, and lectures on topics related to diplomacy. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: Concentrators in International and Public Affairs (IAPA) Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Watson Research and Travel Grant Awards that support academic activities for IR students—for example, senior thesis research, research related to independent work, conference participation, internships, and special projects. Students must complete an online application, including resume, transcript, and personal statement, secure an internship that is unpaid or pays $1,000 or less (includes salary, housing, and transportation) if the application is for an internship, and complete post-award requirements. Questions about the application process should be directed to Anita_Nester@brown.edu. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: Undergraduate student concentrating in DEVL, IAPA, IR, or PLCY, in good academic standing, and returning to Brown the following semester. Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Language Study Grants Financial support for off-campus language learning, with priority given to immersive language programs, and with special consideration given to the study of languages not formally offered at Brown. Amount: Up to $10,000 Eligibility: Concentrators in International and Public Affairs (IAPA) Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds KoChon Fund A permanent endowment administered by the Watson Institute, the KoChon fund is utilized for a wide variety of research and academic activities related to Korea. For undergraduates, the Institute accepts applications to advance student research interests on Korean topics, offering one to two awards per year, which include the option of pursuing field research in Korea. Amount: Project-dependent Eligibility: All Brown undergraduates Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds The Marla Ruzicka International Public Service Fellowship The Marla Ruzicka International Fellowship supports the summer plans of one Brown undergraduate who displays the characteristics of compassion, determination, and selflessness in the pursuit of international human rights, post-conflict rehabilitation, or international public service in its most noble spirit, and whose summer plans reflect those traits. Amount: Up to $4,000 Eligibility: All Brown undergraduates Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship The Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship is made possible through the generosity of Jack Ringer '52, who served in Burma after graduating from Brown. The award supports summer travel to Southeast Asia to conduct research or work in an internship. Amount: up to $4,000 Eligibility: All Brown undergraduates Application deadlines: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 To apply: Learn more and apply online via UFunds Conferences Student Conference on United States Affairs (SCUSA) fall semester The Student Conference on US Affairs is an annual four day conference hosted at The United States Military Academy at West Point. The purpose of the conference is to facilitate interaction and constructive discussion between civillian student delegates and West Point cadets in order to better understand the challenges that the United States faces in an increasingly global society. SCUSA delegates attend panel discussions, hear from high-profile keynotes speakers, and develop policy recommendations during roundtable sessions. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference (NAFAC) spring semester The Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference has become a way of bringing together the nation's future Navy and Marine Corps officers with their peers from other colleges and universities, both civilian and military, from across the country and around the world. Participants include prominent politicians, leading academics and public intellectuals, government officials, and foreign dignitaries—providing a unique forum for scholarly discourse. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application United States Air Force Academy Assembly spring semester Convened annually since 1959, the Academy Assembly is an undergraduate student conference held by the United States Air Force Academy, co-sponsored with Columbia University's American Assembly. Held on the Academy grounds at the base of the Rampart Range, this student- planned and executed conference provides a unique opportunity for qualified undergraduates to discuss a topic of contemporary significance. Student delegates are divided into small round tables and moderated by senior representatives from academia and government. Distinguished speakers provide expert perspective and information on the topic at hand. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application Mellon Foundation Crisis Simulation spring semester The Mellon Foundation Project on Civilian-Military Educational Cooperation bridges the worlds of liberal arts and military education to the benefit of both. A five year project funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Project on Civilian-Military Educational Cooperation facilitates joint projects between educational institutions preparing the next generation of leaders in both sectors. The aim is that members of each group should better understand the other, reducing the “civilian-military gap” that could be a problem for U.S. democracy and society. To apply: Log into UFunds and submit application INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 iapaprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute