Skip to content Menu About People Administration Advisory Committee Faculty Faculty Affiliates DS DUG Student Spotlight Student Achievement Advising Requirements Pre-approved courses Language Capstone Study Abroad Timeline for DS Concentrators Declaring DS FAQ Honors Senior Thesis Thesis Writing Guide Thesis Due Dates Thesis Archive Advising Key Dates Resources Alumni & Careers Opportunities Advising Advising Development Studies offers a three-tiered advising system: Concentration Director, Program Manager, and faculty mentor. For concentration-specific questions (i.e., questions about meeting course requirements, certification of progress toward graduation, etc.), students should contact the DS Concentration Director and/or the Academic Program Manager. All DS students will be assigned a faculty advisor who is available to provide general mentorship and scholarly advice. Office Hours Wednesdays.......1:00-4:00p by appointment and upon request Watson Institute 204 +1 401 863 9068 Make appointment Join via ZOOM Concentration Director Geri Augusto Director, Undergraduate Development Studies Concentration Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs Professor Augusto is a leading scholar of human and social development, with a particular emphasis on subjugated knowledge (indigenous knowledges, local knowledge, knowledges of the enslaved); science and technology and higher education policies in the Global South; black transnationalism; and the social and freedom movements of African and Afro-descendent communities, an interest which stretches across the USA, Southern Africa and Brazil. Office Hours Tue.......11-12 Wed........1-2 Thur......12-1 Watson Institute 220 +1 401 863 3244 Make appointment Connect via Zoom Program Manager Anita Nester Undergraduate Concentrations Manager Anita Nester is a resource for all DS students (both current and prospective), and is typically the first stop for inquiries concerning the DS concentration. All new concentrators will file their DS concentration with Anita. She also provides support and answers questions regarding: filing DS DS requirements DS policies processes (e.g., how to file DS, transfer credits, ASK system, CPT applications) course lists general program information funding opportunities DS website Please feel free to contact her with questions about the points above as well as ways to get involved with DS and the Watson Institute. Drop by during open walk-in hours, make an appointment, or request a Zoom videoconference meeting. Office Hours Wednesdays..........1-3 Watson Institute 215 Peer Advisor Cat Maker '21 Cat is a junior concentrating in Development Studies with a regional focus on Latin America. She is particularly interested in the the effects of development on immigration to the US, and spent this past summer in Guatemala at a Spanish language school. In Rhode Island, Cat is a volunteer for workers' rights coalition Fuerza Laboral. Thesis Advising See list of past thesis advisors DEVELOPMENT STUDIES PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 dsprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute