Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Graduate Student Opportunities Sarmiento Research Award for Latin American Studies The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) is accepting applications from Brown University undergraduate students, graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty for Sarmiento Research Awards. Successful applicants receive up to $5,000 to support humanities and social science research in and on Spanish-speaking South America. The funds may be used between July 2022-June 2023 to cover travel and research expenses. The program is funded by the Sarmiento Flexible Fund for Latin American Studies, which was established through the generous support of Alfredo C. Cassiet, M.D. and Maria-Elena Cassiet, and can only accept candidates who are “natives or residents of Spanish-speaking countries south of Panama, not including the Caribbean.” Application and Eligibility Requirements Grant for Pre-Dissertation Field Research in Latin America The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) is accepting applications from Brown University graduate students (pre-candidacy, in any discipline and degree program, including professional degrees) for Field Research Grants. Successful applicants receive up to $4,000 to support research travel during calendar year 2022 to Latin America and the Caribbean, including Brazil. Funding is provided thanks to the generous support of the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Requirements and Submission Details > Certificate Program in Latin American Studies The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies is proud to announce a doctoral specialization certificate program open to enrolled PhD students.This new initiative at Brown is designed to extend expertise into interdisciplinary areas and to certify training beyond the home Ph.D. discipline. It promises to advance student careers as well as promote intellectual exchange and community in these academic areas. For more information on the program offered by CLACS, including admission requirements, click here. Latin American and Caribbean Studies Dissertation Prize The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) accepts submissions for the Latin American and Caribbean Studies Dissertation Prize. Each year, the prize will be awarded to the best dissertation in the area of Latin American and Caribbean Studies written by a current Brown University graduate student from any discipline who will defend and submit the dissertation by April 30, 2022. Check out our announcement for more information. Interdisciplinary Opportunity for CLACS Graduate Affiliates The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) is able to host one fellow, in any humanities or social science discipline, whose dissertation is focused on Latin America, the Caribbean, or Latinx communities around the world, and whose research and writing would benefit from being based in an interdisciplinary area studies center. This opportunity allows dissertating students to determine what academic experience would most benefit them - teaching an independent course on a Latin American or Caribbean topic, designing a workshop, etc. - and engage in it with mentorship and support from CLACS faculty and staff. Information about future award cycles will be posted here. Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) Interdisciplinary Faculty-Student Reading/Writing Groups CLACS regularly awards funding to groups of affiliated graduate students and faculty to form interdisciplinary reading and/or writing groups. The purpose is to enhance learning about a specific topic, country or region from a number of disciplinary perspectives. The deadline for this opportunity has passed. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute