Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleResearchPublicationsFor StudentsCIPNewsExplore WatsonWatson MinuteEventsPartnershipsOpportunities Menu About Director's Message Contact and Directions Get Involved E-News Signup History Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty Watson Faculty Watson Faculty Fellows Senior Fellows Visiting Fellows Faculty Emeriti Military Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Board of Governors Find an Expert For Students Student Experience Undergraduate Master of Public Affairs Graduate Program in Development Student Advisory Council Student Resources Career Resources Student Events Senior Fellow Office Hours News News from Watson 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 In the News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2010 2011 Event Series Webcasts Art at Watson Co-sponsored Events Co-sponsorship Request Space Request Join E-Mail List Research Research Briefs 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Archived Research Find an Expert Publications Research Topics 21st Century Economic Challenges Future of the Welfare State Global Health Industrialization, Governance, and Technology Liberal and Illiberal Democracy Migration and Displacement Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Power Security, Stabilization, and Conflict Avoidance Urban Governance Centers & Programs Africa Initiative Brazil Initiative Center for Contemporary South Asia Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Center for Middle East Studies China Initiative Climate Solutions Lab Costs of War Project JFK Jr. Film Initiative The William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance Postdoctoral Fellows Program Senior Fellows Program Stone Inequality Initiative Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy Opportunities Faculty Graduate Postdoc Undergraduate Employment Opportunities About Director's Message Contact and Directions Get Involved E-News Signup History Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion at the Watson Institute As Brown University’s hub for the study of public affairs in a global, cross-national context, the Watson Institute takes as central to its mission the advancement of knowledge about the interaction of race, ethnicity, and power – and the implications of that interaction for peace and social justice. At one level, the Institute aspires to be a leader in the exploration of how policy and institutions have affected the experience of historically-underrepresented groups in the United States. Such scholarship represents an effort to ensure that the injustices of the past and present do not continue unimpeded into the future. At the same time, the Institute aims to understand the experience of underrepresented groups – be they religious, ethnic, gender-related, sexual preference-based, or any other identity – in other national contexts, so as to explore patterns of privilege, power, and injustice more generally. Moving from what we do to who we are, the Watson Institute embraces Brown’s goal of increasing representation, voice, and participation by members of historically-underrepresented groups, with equal regard to the faculty conducting research and teaching, the staff delivering programming and ensuring smooth operations, the students filling Watson classrooms and imparting fresh ideas, and the members of the local community participating in Watson events. So, too, does the Institute embrace the goal of increasing representation, voice, and participation for all identity groups. Doing so is just as critical for reasons of justice as it is for ensuring the integrity of Watson's scholarly efforts. To the extent that a community excludes people or groups, it fails in its scholarship and its education. Since 2016, a Diversity and Inclusion Committee of faculty, staff, and students has convened regularly to foster the Watson Institute's realization of these values. Only by ensuring that the Watson community itself is fully inclusive – and only by ensuring that all members of this community are fully valued and supported – can the Institute realize its full potential and achieve its global mission. New Diversity and Inclusion Role Beginning June 1, 2020 Melissa Nicholaus' role as MPA Program Manager at Watson expanded to include overseeing and implementing the strategic objectives outlined in the Institute's departmental Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan. Among her responsibilities are to monitor diversity-and-inclusion outcomes and to communicate progress; to plan and coordinate workshops, programs, and meetings; and to serve as Watson's essential point of contact about Watson's climate with regard to diversity-and-inclusion values. Please reach out to Melissa at: melissa_nicholaus@brown.edu. Resources Brown University DIAP Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion: An Action Plan for Brown University outlines a set of concrete, achievable actions to make Brown a more fully diverse and inclusive community. Incident Reporting The bias reporting system is one tool used for collecting information, identifying trends and themes as well as informing future campus climate initiatives. Course Designation DIAP Courses on Race, Gender, and Inequality examine issues of structural inequality, racial formations and/or disparities, and systems of power within a complex, pluralistic world. Learn more about how to find or designate a course. Brown University Land Acknowledgement Brown has developed an official land acknowledgment as part of a set of commitments to build a better understanding of the relationship between the University, the Indigenous peoples of this region, and the land on which Brown is situated. Resources During National Unrest (2020) Brown's Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) has compiled articles and other resources to help faculty, staff, and students expand their knowledge on anti-blackness and systemic racism, look into forms of meaningful allyship, and come to learn some of organizations that are deeply committed to this work (understanding that a number of community members have already been engaging in this work). The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center offers publications and online resources addressing a wide range of teaching and learning topics, including inclusive teaching, writing pedagogy, mentoring, and course design. The Inclusive Teaching section, in particular, covers many topics that Watson faculty and students regularly discuss, including syllabus development, supporting diverse students, and inclusive classroom discussions. Suggestion Box Do you have ideas to enhance Diversity and Inclusion initiatives at Watson? Ideas for student programming, training, or cultural events? Do you have suggestions for how we can make the Watson Institute a more inclusive environment? Let us know. Committee Members: Nadje Al-Ali, co-chair Melissa Nicholaus, co-chair Valerie Aguilar Dellisanti Geri Augusto Jamila Beesley '22 Thasfia Chowdhury MPA '22 Isabel Costa Kathryn Dunkelman Ben Frigon '22.5 Biko Iryumugaba '21 Anushka Kataruka '24 Michael Kennedy Patsy Lewis Benjamin Lopez MPA '22 Alexandra Martinez '22 Adriana Maxwell '22.5 Megan Murphy Barbara Oberkoetter Annette Ogunnaike Daniel Richards Catherine Rodarte Edward Steinfeld Contact: Watson-DIAP@brown.edu Watson DIAP Newsletter: Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Spring 2020 Supporting New Scholarship on Questions of Injustice, Human Rights, and Democracy New Leadership for Watson’s DIAP Committee Seeks to Connect the Dots Out of Frame: Visual Counter-Narratives Reframing Development Studies Student Spotlight: Jamila Beesley ’22 Deconstructing the Concept of Development Share Contact Jobs WATSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 watson_institute@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute