Skip to content Menu About People Administration Advisory Committee Faculty Faculty Affiliates DS DUG Student Spotlight Student Achievement Advising Requirements Pre-approved courses Language Capstone Study Abroad Timeline for DS Concentrators Declaring DS FAQ Honors Senior Thesis Thesis Writing Guide Thesis Due Dates Thesis Archive Advising Key Dates Resources Alumni & Careers Opportunities Opportunities Opportunities ______________________ NOTE The University has temporarily, but formally, suspended all Brown-related undergraduate international travel and programming for Summer 2020. This doesn't mean that students' pursuits of research and internship opportunities need to come to a halt! Students applying for funding are permitted to propose an alternative project that is domestic and/or remote. Please note that a detailed budget outlining all projected expenses is still required. ______________________ This list includes only Brown-sponsored awards. Please visit the Watson Institute Undergraduate Opportunities page and Fellowships at Brown for a more comprehensive list. DO NOT rely on the deadline dates listed here. Verify deadlines with individual grants. Critical Language Scholarships Deadline: Mid November Benefits: Summer abroad to study a critical language. Carnegie Junior Fellowship Deadline: End November Benefits: 3,000 per month for approximately one year. Arthur Liman Public Interest Summer Fellowship Deadline: Mid January Benefits: 3,000 Projects for Peace Deadline: Mid January Benefits: 10,000 in support of winning project Dean's Discretionary Grants Deadline: Rolling The Dean of the College will consider requests to fund undergraduate research projects that fall outside the boundaries of other research award programs. Students will normally have exhausted all other University grant sources before seeking support from the Dean. Special requests of all sorts are considered, but projects that incorporate an international or global component are especially encouraged. Students who wish to request a discretionary grant should write a short proposal that explains the nature of the research, the steps involved in completing the research project, and the grant sources that have already been petitioned. Students should then speak with Dean Bergeron during her open hours on Wednesday afternoon. Research at Brown Grant Deadline: Rolling Benefits: up to $500 Research at Brown (RAB) grants support student-initiated research projects in the sciences, the humanities, and the fine arts. The Program supports student research and travel to present papers at conferences. DS Research and Internship Grant Deadlines: Thesis Research - May 7; Other Capstone Research - March 31; Other Projects - Rolling Award: Up to $2000 Eligibility: Undergraduate student concentrating in Development Studies in good academic standing, and returning to study at Brown the following fall. Complete an application. Jack Ringer Summer in South Asia Fellowship Deadline: End March Benefits: $3500 The award provides Brown students with up to $3,500 to support summer travel to Southeast Asia to conduct research or work in an internship. The Marla Ruzicka International Public Service Fellowship Deadline: End March Benefits: $3500 The award provides $3,500 to support the summer plans of one Brown undergraduate who displays the characteristics of compassion, determination, and selflessness in the pursuit of international human rights, post-conflict rehabilitation, or international public service in its most noble spirit, and whose summer plans reflect those traits. The Cogut Center for the Undergraduate Fellowships Deadline: Mid March The Cogut Center for the Humanities inaugurated academic-year-long Undergraduate Fellowships each year for Brown undergraduate students in the humanities. Rising junior and senior honors students are encouraged to apply. Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Deadline: Spring - Mid November, Summer - Mid February Benefits: $3000 - $4000 Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) support Brown students collaborating with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects during the summer or the academic year. Named for the dean who launched the program in the 1980s, UTRAs provide students with valuable academic experience that prepares them for graduate study and that contributes directly to course development at Brown. Students translate their academic knowledge into hands-on practice that results in the production of new knowledge. Faculty benefit from the assistance and perspectives undergraduates bring to their work. Creative Arts Council Student Grants Deadline: TBD Benefit: $1000 The Student Grant Program supports undergraduate or graduate student projects involved in the study, critique, or production of the creative arts. Grants are offered once per semester for funds available during the current semester. Brown Venture Launch Fund The Brown Venture Launch Fund (BVLF) serves the Brown community by encouraging student entrepreneurs to take their ideas and make them into new ventures. Brown LINK/SEW Deadline: Round 1 - Mid March, Round 2 - Mid April Benefit: $3000 domestic, $5000 international Each year, Brown awards financial assistance to students pursuing unpaid or low-paying summer internships. These awards allow students to explore career options and engage in experiential learning activities outside the classroom. Students must apply for or secure an internship that is unpaid or that pays less than $1,000 before applying for funds. The Brown LINK Award Program is funded by Brown alums and parents, and the Office of Financial Aid and administered by the Center for Careers and Life After Brown. International Affairs Undergraduate Student Fund Deadline: Rolling Benefits: unspecified The International Affairs Undergraduate Student Fund can accommodate many diverse interests and types of projects, on-campus events and short-term travel grants. Please contact Barbara Sardy for more information. DEVELOPMENT STUDIES PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 dsprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute