Skip to content Menu About People Administration Faculty Advisory Committee Alumni IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive Advising Requirements Core Tracks Research Methods Regional Language Capstone Capstone Options Capstone Catalog Capstone Forms Capstone FAQ Double Concentrators Credit Transfer Filing Graduating Forms Program FAQ Honors How to Apply Timeline & Checklist The Thesis Thesis Advising Thesis Awards Testimonials FAQ Thesis Conference Courses Study Abroad Independent Research Opportunities Award Recipients About People IR DUG Student Spotlight Internships and Careers Newsletter Newsletter Archive IR DUG The International Relations Department Undergraduate Group (IR DUG) is an organization consisting of IR concentrators and potential concentrators. The DUG is intended to be both a resource for students exploring the IR concentration and a means of organizing events of interest to IR concentrators or others interested in international relations. IR DUG Leaders Clia Ellwein '22 Hi, I'm Clia and I'm a junior concentrating in International Relations on the Political Economy and Society Track, with a regional focus in Latin America. I have enjoyed the interdisciplinary nature of the concentration, which has allowed me to take courses in a wide variety of subjects, and similarly have taken advantage of access to experts in their fields through Watson Institute events and study groups, which I highly recommend! Outside of the classroom, I love to plan, and am an event planner for Best Buddies and Women in Business Off-Campus Business Education teams. I look forward to planning exciting events and providing informal mentorship this year as part of the IR DUG team! Emma Kumleben '21 I'm a senior on the security and society track, with a regional focus on both Latin America and Africa. My hometown is London, UK, but I've also spent a lot of time in South Africa, and over the past few years have interned and worked in the US, Argentina, Portugal, and Brazil (where I also studied through the Brown OIP program). I'm excited to work with the DUG this year on events and resources to bring concentrators together. I'm always happy to talk about courses and IR in general, and from my own experience can also speak to study abroad options, finding internships abroad, opportunities in politics and foreign policy in the US, gap years, research assistantships, and the honors program. Lachlan MacKenzie '22 I am a junior on the Security and Society track with a regional focus on Russia and Eastern Europe. My current interests center on the use of force in international affairs, and I am particularly interested in the role that coercion and military power play in the relationship between the United States and Russia. To deepen my understanding of the Russian language and the culture of the Caucuses, I studied in Tbilisi and travelled in Georgia and Armenia during the summer of 2019. As a member of the IR DUG, I am excited about providing opportunities for Brown students to further their academic and professional goals by coming together as a group and by interacting with Brown University faculty and alumni. If you have questions or concerns about studying International Relations at Brown, please reach out. IR DUG Activities Annual themed speaker series Concentration information sessions and social events Professor dinners Advising hours Degree days events IR DUG Handbook IR DUG Meetings TBD For more information about the group and its activities, or to be added to the DUG listserv, please contact brownirdug@gmail.com Get on the mailing list! Forms Program FAQ IR DUG INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 irprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute