Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive Webcasts WI Page Events Education Across Borders: Immigration, Race, and Identity in the Classroom Friday, May 13, 2022 12:00pm – 1:30pm Joukowsky Forum, 111 Thayer Street This is a hybrid event. Register here to attend the webinar. WATCH ON YOUTUBE Join us for a book launch featuring two of the authors of this book on educating Haitian and Dominican students in the US. Moderated by Andrea Flores, Department of English. The practices and values in the US educational system position linguistically, culturally, and socioeconomically diverse children and families at a disadvantage. BIPOC dropout rates and levels of stress and anxiety have linked with non-inclusive school environments. In this collection, 3 educators tell and will draw on their experiences as immigrants and educators to address racial inequity in the classroom and provide a thorough analysis of different strategies that create an inclusive classroom environment. White educators that serve BIPOC students will benefit from these reflections on incorporating culturally relevant pedagogies that value the diverse experiences of their students. With a focus on Haitian and Dominican students in the US, the authors will reveal the challenges that immigrant and first-generation students face. They’ll also offer insights about topics such as: • How do language policies and social justice intersect? • How can educators use culturally relevant teaching and community funds of knowledge to enrich school curriculum? • How can educators center the needs of the student within the classroom? • How can educators support Haitian Creole-speaking students? Dr. Jalene Tamerat is the Dean of the Charles Sposato Graduate School of Education, a residency and master's program for aspiring teachers in the Boston area. Prior to coming to Sposato, Jalene worked for three years as the Director of New Teacher Development in Boston Public Schools, where she oversaw the district’s induction and licensure programs for novice teachers. Jalene has served as adjunct faculty at Boston University, teaching methods courses to early career educators as well as graduate-level courses in adolescent development. She is currently a course instructor for The Center for Equity, Leadership and Behavioral Health in Schools at William James College. Jalene began her career in education in 2003 as a classroom educator in BPS, teaching core subjects such as science, mathematics, and social studies at the middle school level. Jalene has published research and led professional development on various topics in education, such as critical consciousness development, global competence development, and funds of knowledge pedagogy. Jalene is co-author of the book Education Across Borders: Immigration, Race & Identity in the Classroom (Beacon Press, 2022). She holds an Ed.D. from Boston University, an Ed.M. from Harvard University, an M.A.T. from Emmanuel College, and a B.A. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Patrick Sylvain is a Haitian-American writer, essayist and poet, and educator. He has been published in several anthologies, magazines and reviews, including African American Review, Agni, American Poetry Review, Callaloo, Crab Orchard Review, Haitian Times and Ploughshares. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute