Skip to content Menu About People Administration Advisory Committee Faculty Faculty Affiliates DS DUG Student Spotlight Student Achievement Advising Requirements Pre-approved courses Language Capstone Study Abroad Timeline for DS Concentrators Declaring DS FAQ Honors Senior Thesis Thesis Writing Guide Thesis Due Dates Thesis Archive Advising Key Dates Resources Alumni & Careers Opportunities About People Student Spotlight Student Achievement Student Achievement 2019 Grant and Prize Winners Academic Excellence in DS Dean of the College award given to students with all A’s in their DS concentration courses taken at Brown, including language study. Katrina Northrop Outstanding Performance in the DS Concentration Louis Epstein Nora Lawrence Rachel McMahon Sarah Tucker Honors in DS Awarded for outstanding performance in the DS concentration, including a mandatory thesis preparation seminar and completion of a thesis with distinction. Brian Elizalde Casey Lingelbach Rachel McMahon Ruth Miller Jessica Murphy Katrina Northrop Mira Reichman Watson Outstanding Thesis Award Awarded for the best thesis related to the Institute’s core research areas of security, development, or governance. Rachel McMahon, Independence in the Interim: Development in the Exile Tibetan Community DS Summer Research and Internship Award Aubrey Calaway, thesis research, Ecuador Ntxheb Chang, thesis research, China Tabitha Paye, thesis research, Cambodia Frishta Qaderi, thesis research, UK Reda Semlani, internship, UK Oriana vanPraag, internship, Washington, D.C. Austin Cole '15 wins Fulbright award (Columbia) David Adler '14 and Rie Ohta '13.5 win Fulbright awards in Mexico and Malaysia, respectively. Hannah Cockrell '13 wins the Anca Romantan Memorial Award for Outstanding Thesis in Development Studies. Kathryn Cohen '13 and Erin Jones '12.5 win the Dean’s Award for Academic Excellence. Hannah Cockrell '13 and Erin Jones 12.5 graduate magna cum laude. Robert Schlaegel '13, Hannah Cockrell '13, Josephine Korijn '13,Kathryn Cohen '13, Erin Jones '12.5, Addie Thompson '12.5 and Dung Nguyen Vu '12.5 are awarded honors in DS. Four DS concentrators were among the 104 members of the class of 2012 elected to Phi Beta Kappa: Sophie Kainen, Colleen McDonald, Sanna Vohra, andAshlie Williams. Isaac Jabola-Carolus '12 article, was accepted for the 2012 publication of the undergrad journal Sociological Insight."[The paper] provides a nice mix of theory and qualitative research illuminating a number of important but neglected issues in social movement studies." Patrick Martin-Tuite '11 article "Whose Science?": AIDS, History, and Public Knowledge in South Africa was published in Intersect: The Stanford Journal of Science, Technology & Society [Vol 4 (2011) 4th Edition]. Masumi Hayashi-Smith '11 article, "Contesting Buddhisms on Conflicted Land: Sarvodaya Shramadana and Buddhist Peacemaking" was published in the June 2011, Volume XXXVIII, Number 2 issue of the Journal of Sociology and Social Welfare. Elizabeth C. Adler '11 won her class's Distinguished Senior Thesis Award for her Development Studies Program thesis on "Practicing Good Medicine: Community-based Diagnosis and Prognosis for Promoting Obstetric Care Access and Use in Rural Nepal." DEVELOPMENT STUDIES PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 dsprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute