Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleResearchPublicationsFor StudentsCIPNewsExplore WatsonWatson MinuteEventsPartnershipsOpportunities Menu About Director's Message Contact and Directions Get Involved E-News Signup History Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty Watson Faculty Watson Faculty Fellows Senior Fellows Visiting Fellows Faculty Emeriti Military Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Board of Governors Find an Expert For Students Student Experience Undergraduate Master of Public Affairs Graduate Program in Development Student Advisory Council Student Resources Career Resources Student Events Senior Fellow Office Hours News News from Watson 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 In the News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2010 2011 Event Series Webcasts Art at Watson Co-sponsored Events Co-sponsorship Request Space Request Join E-Mail List Research Research Briefs 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Archived Research Find an Expert Publications Research Topics 21st Century Economic Challenges Future of the Welfare State Global Health Industrialization, Governance, and Technology Liberal and Illiberal Democracy Migration and Displacement Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Power Security, Stabilization, and Conflict Avoidance Urban Governance Centers & Programs Africa Initiative Brazil Initiative Center for Contemporary South Asia Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Center for Middle East Studies China Initiative Climate Solutions Lab Costs of War Project JFK Jr. Film Initiative The William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance Postdoctoral Fellows Program Senior Fellows Program Stone Inequality Initiative Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy Opportunities Faculty Graduate Postdoc Undergraduate Employment Opportunities Opportunities Faculty Graduate Postdoc Undergraduate Employment Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Funding for Research and Internships Applied Policy Research Internship During the spring semester, The Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy is pleased to provide resources to support one public policy or IAPA concentrator as an Applied Policy Research Intern at The Policy Lab at Brown University. The intern will receive a stipend of $2,500. Successful Applied Policy Research Intern candidates will be intellectually curious and highly-motivated, with strengths in written and verbal communication, research, and quantitative analysis. Skills in one or more of the following are also highly favored: data cleaning, handling, and coding; quantitative analysis; project/time management; stakeholder engagement; policy analysis and report writings. We also require that interns are committed to an environment of diversity and inclusion. Amount: $2,500 Eligibility: PLCY & IAPA Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: December 10 Apply China Initiative Undergraduate Summer Research Awards China Initiative Undergraduate Summer Research Awards support thesis research by Brown undergraduates whose focus of study is Greater China. The awards support archival, library, and on-site field research in Mainland China or Taiwan; in exceptional cases, the awards might be used to research in other global locales relevant to the topic. Amount: Grants of up to $5000 are awarded for one summer. Eligibility: Undergraduate in their junior year (rising seniors) are eligible to apply for this opportunity to fund thesis research in the summer before senior year. Deadline: Monday, April 15, 2022 More Information Governor Frank Licht Internship During the spring semester, two public policy or IAPA concentrators will be named the Governor Frank Licht '38 interns and will work with Rhode Island legislature. The Licht interns will each receive a stipend of $2,500 through an endowment by the family of the late Governor Frank Licht '38. Amount: $2,500 Eligibility: PLCY & IAPA Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: December 10 Apply Happy and John Hazen White, Sr. Internship Stipends are awarded based on academic performance and on the proposed integration of the internship with future academic work. Preference will be given to students who have not already received a White award. You may apply for a White internship without having secured a definite position with an organization (you may list several options on the application). Amount: $4,000 Eligibility: All Watson Concentrators Deadline: Summer term: March 15 Apply Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship The Jack Ringer Summer in Southeast Asia Fellowship is made possible through the generosity of Jack Ringer '52, who served in Burma after graduating from Brown. The award supports summer travel to Southeast Asia to conduct research or work in an internship. Amount: Up to $4,000 Eligibility: All Brown Undergraduates Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply John P Birkelund Fund For Diplomacy The fund will support student internships related to foreign policy and diplomacy, research projects, symposia, and lectures on topics related to diplomacy. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: All Brown Undergraduates Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply KoChon Fund A permanent endowment administered by the Watson Institute, the KoChon fund is utilized for a wide variety of research and academic activities related to Korea. For undergraduates, the Institute accepts applications to advance student research interests on Korean topics, offering one to two awards per year, which include the option of pursuing field research in Korea. Amount: Up to $4,000 Eligibility: All Brown Undergraduates Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Language Study Grants Financial support for off-campus language learning, with priority given to immersive language programs, and with special consideration given to the study of languages not formally offered at Brown. Amount: Up to $10,000 Eligibility: IAPA Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Marla Ruzicka International Public Service Fellowship The Marla Ruzicka International Fellowship supports the summer plans of one Brown undergraduate who displays the characteristics of compassion, determination, and selflessness in the pursuit of international human rights, post-conflict rehabilitation, or international public service in its most noble spirit, and whose summer plans reflect those traits. Amount: up to $4,000 Eligibility: All Brown Undergraduates Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Michael Bhatia Fund for Peace-keeping and Conflict Studies Established in memory of Michael Vinay Bhatia '99, who died in May 2008 in Afghanistan, where he was working as a social scientist in consultation with the U.S. military, the Fund underwrites field work, study abroad, or thesis research by IR concentrators working on peace-keeping and conflict studies. It is awarded to a student who, like Michael Bhatia '99, hopes to deepen his/her understanding of a region or culture by traveling and studying there, with the ultimate goal of helping to promote cross-cultural understanding that might end or avert violence or military conflict. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: IR and IAPA Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Noah Krieger ’93 Internship This award provides a $4,000 stipend for an outstanding public policy concentrator who is particularly interested in public service to pursue an eight-week unpaid summer internship. Eligibility: All Watson Concentrators Deadline: Summer term: March 15 Apply Richard C. Barker '57 LHD'09 hon., P'03, P'05 Award for International and Public Affairs Financial support for undergraduate students concentrating in International and Public Affairs for senior thesis research, research related to independent work, conference participation, internships, and/or travel. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: IAPA Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Stone Inequality Initiative Funding The Stone Inequality Initiative invites undergraduate and graduate proposals for internships, research grants, collaboration with faculty or other student projects. The funds are available to students from any discipline. Work should be focused, broadly, on the issues surrounding great wealth in American society, on the American gilded age(s). Ten awards are available. Please submit a letter in which you describe the proposed project, your proposed budget and the name of a faculty mentor or committee chair. We will accept applications immediately and make the awards on a rolling basis. Please send applications or inquires to alberto_alcaraz_escarcega@brown.edu. Amount: Up to $5,000 Eligibility: Available to students from any discipline. Deadline: We will accept applications immediately and make the awards on a rolling basis. Contact: Alberto Alcaraz Escarcega More Information Watson Research and Travel Grant Awards that support academic activities for IR students—for example, senior thesis research, research related to independent work, conference participation, internships, and special projects. Students must complete an online application, including resume, transcript, and personal statement, secure an internship that is unpaid or pays $1,000 or less (includes salary, housing, and transportation) if the application is for an internship, and complete post-award requirements. Amount: Up to $2,000 Eligibility: All Watson Concentrators Deadline: Spring term: Nov 30; Summer term: Mar 31; Fall term: July 31 Contact: Anita Nester Apply Student Conferences Air Force Academy Assembly Conference Eligibility: IR Concentrator or by Faculty Recommendation Application period: Dec 15-Jan 15 Contact: Anita Nester More Information Mellon Simulation Project Eligibility: IR Concentrator or by Faculty Recommendation Application period: Nov 1-Dec 15 Contact: Anita Nester More Information Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference (NAFAC) Eligibility: IR Concentrator or by Faculty Recommendation Application period: Jan 15-Feb 25 Contact: Anita Nester More Information Student Conference on U.S. Affairs (SCUSA) Eligibility: IR Concentrator or by Faculty Recommendation Application period: Sep 15-Oct 17 Contact: Anita Nester More Information Fellowships Middle East Studies Undergraduate Fellowship Awards Eligibility: Rising Seniors writing a Thesis for MES Concentration Credit Application period: Jan 1-Apr 15 Contact: Barbara Oberkoetter More Information Taubman Center Undergraduate Research Fellowship on Political Underrepresentation The Taubman Center for American Politics and Politics is pleased to provide resources to students interested in research on political underrepresentation at the city, state, or federal level. This fellowship of $2,500 will be awarded to five students per semester, and will provide research funding to undergraduate students who have experience in, or a commitment to, working with issues relating to underserved communities. Application Deadline: February 15th Contact: Samantha Griffin More Information Additional Sources of Information Brown Connect Part of President Paxson’s plan to increase student access to internships and research positions, BrownConnect allows students to search for real-world opportunities while still on campus. By bringing the Brown community together to support students, BrownConnect enables undergraduates to follow their own paths beyond the classroom. Brown in Washington The Brown in Washington Program offers students a semester in Washington, D.C. during their junior or senior year, interning with public and nonprofit sector agencies and completing coursework that complements their internship placements. The program is the product of a partnership between the Swearer Center and the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Co-sponsorship Request The Watson Institute welcomes applications from undergraduates for the Institute's hosting, promotion, or funding of on-campus student activities. Dean's Discretionary Grants The Dean of the College has a small budget to fund undergraduate research projects that fall outside the boundaries of other research award programs. Students will normally have exhausted all other University grant sources before seeking support from the Dean. Special requests of all sorts are considered, but projects that incorporate an international or global component are especially encouraged. Fellowships@Brown Fellowships at Brown represent university-sponsored programs including nationally competitive fellowships that fund faculty-student research collaborations, unpaid internships, independent research and travel, and post-baccalaureate work or study both in the United States and abroad. Here you will find information about the range of opportunities at Brown as well as selected external awards of potential interest to Brown students. Office of Global Engagement Grant Opportunities Priority will be given to requests that demonstrate an effort to advance the inclusion of the international community on campus and beyond, and/or that contribute to academic research and scholarship. UFUNDS UFunds coordinates applications for funding from offices at Brown. You will find opportunities here for members of the Brown community, including undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty. Undergraduate Research Brown sponsors a number of fellowship and grant programs that support undergraduate research during the summer or the academic year. Many of the awards are specifically designed to facilitate faculty-student research collaborations, including Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards and Royce Fellowships. Share Contact Jobs WATSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 watson_institute@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute