Skip to content Menu About Mission Director's Message Contact Newsletter Signup People Faculty Visiting Professors DUG Leaders Undergraduate Fellows Affiliated Scholars About Affiliated Scholars Associated Graduate Students MES Graduate Student Association (MESGSA) Affiliation Request Form Staff Steering Committee Advisory Council Research Initiatives Projects Academics Undergraduate Concentration About the Concentration Arabic@Brown Undergraduate Course Listing Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Spring 2015 Fall 2014 Featured Elective Courses Honors Thesis Featured Honors Theses Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Undergraduate Resources Alumni Pathways Graduate Students The Arts Events Upcoming Events Events by Type Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Webcasts Publications & Media Publications Articles Books Latest Newsletter Student Bulletin Print Media Annual Reports Event Programs Posters Brochures Webcasts CMES Community Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Student Spotlight Other Media Funding Research Travel Awards Undergraduate Research Travel Award Graduate Research Travel Award MES Undergraduate Fellowship Event Cosponsorship Application Project Proposal Form Resources Academics Undergraduate Concentration About the Concentration Undergraduate Course Listing Fall 2022 Featured Elective Courses Honors Thesis Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Undergraduate Resources Graduate Students Featured Elective Courses ANTH 1225 Gendering Migration and Diasporas Wednesday, 3:00 – 5:30 p.m. Professor: Nadje Al-Ali Location TBD This course will employ a decolonial and transnational feminist approach to explore gender and sexuality as central lenses in our understanding of different forms of migration and diasporas. We will address the various ways that experiences, processes and consequences linked to different migrations are gendered. The course will introduce a range of geographical contexts and empirical examples/case studies with the aim to challenge the US centrism existent in many academic debates. We will analyze relevant power relations and forms of oppression, as well as resistance strategies by migrants, asylum seekers and refugees. The course will use an intersectional lens to explore the way different power configurations interplay in specific contexts, paying particular attention to patriarchy, heteronormativity, nationalism, racism, Islamophobia and class-based inequalities. We will engage economic, political, social, and cultural dimensions, but also the politics of non/belonging, and cultural productions. RPP COLT 1310J The Arab Renaissance Wednesday, 3:00 – 5:30 p.m. Professor: Elias Muhanna Location TBD Explores the 19th-century Arabic cultural renaissance known as the Nahda. Topics include intellectual encounters between Europe and the Middle East, the birth of the Arabic novel, and the rise of Islamic modernism. We will read selections from the works of Shidyaq, Tahtawi, Zaydan, Shawqi, Bustani, and others, alongside historiographical and theoretical texts. At least three years of Arabic required. RPP | WRIT ARCH 0440 Archaeologies of the Ancient "Middle East" Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 2:00 – 2:50 p.m. Professor: Nour Munawar Location TBD To understand the tensions of the modern Middle East, it is necessary to understand the region's past. This course will explore the archaeological history of Israel, Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan – not least the political and religious agendas that scholars have brought to the study of these lands. Prehistoric and early historic developments will be emphasized: the earliest human occupation, the origins of cultivation and pastoralism, orientalism, (post-)colonialism, cultural memory, and the rise of social inequality and political complexity. HIST 0244 Understanding the Middle East: 1800s to the Present Tuesday, Thursday, 2:30 – 3:50 p.m. Professor: Sreemati Mitter Location TBD This course is an introduction to the history of the modern Middle East from the mid-19th C to the present. Readings and topics are structured chronologically, and emphasize the key events and turning points in the political and economic history of the region. The goal of the course is to understand how the Middle East, as it is today, has been shaped by the events of the past. RPP HIAA 1440F Architectural Reuse: The Appropriation of the Past Friday, 3:00 – 5:30 p.m. Professor: Sheila Bonde Location TBD This seminar will consider the survival, revival and adaptive reuse of older objects, texts and built spaces in the visual and material culture of successor cultures. We will look critically at the literature on the archaeology of memory, “Renaissance and revival” spolia studies and adaptive reuse. The seminar will examine selected case studies, including the reuse of sculptural elements in the Arch of Constantine, the conversion of the Pantheon into a church and Hagia Sophia into a mosque, appropriated elements in the Qutb mosque in Delhi, and the adaptation of the Bankside Power Station as the Tate Gallery. WRIT IAPA 1904A Iran and the Islamic Revolution Wednesday, 3:00 – 5:30 p.m. Professor: Stephen Kinzer Location TBD Shattering events of 1978-80 in Iran unfolded against the backdrop of the previous decades of Iranian history, knowing that history is essential to understanding the revolution. The revolution cannot be appreciated without studying the enormous effects it's had over the last 35 years. This course places the anti-Shah movement and the rise of religious power in the context of Iran's century of modern history. We conclude by focusing on today's Iran, the upheaval following the 2009 election, reformist president election in 2013, and prospects for reconciliation with the US. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors & seniors. Priority given to IR seniors. WRIT MES 1400 The Middle East in Berlin: Urban Spaces and Voices Thursday, 4:00 – 6:30 p.m. Professor: Katharina Galor Location TBD This seminar explores the physical and human landscapes of post-war Berlin: its steadily expanding urban fabric and how it engages with the rapidly changing population make-up. The focus will be on the tension between past and present histories, new German identities, the recent massive migrations, anti-Semitism and Islamophobia, and how these social and geopolitical phenomena interact with the city’s urban spaces and monuments. As case studies we will explore the relationship among Germans and three other significant communities: Turks, Israelis, and Palestinians. RPP | WRIT TAPS 0800K Islam between Theatre and Performance Wednesday, 1:00 – 3:50 p.m. Professor: Kenneth Molloy Location TBD This course explores the nuanced relationship among concepts of theatre, performance and Islam in diverse texts and contexts. Our readings cut across disciplinary divides, weaving together theatre history, Islamic intellectual-cultural history, theory of performance, and theory of religion to support a dynamic, critical approach to our field of inquiry. We will discuss how attention to theatricality and performance may enrich our understanding of representations of Islam by Muslims, representations of Islam by non-Muslims, and the relationships between these representations. Taking as a point of departure the extreme opposition between “Islam” and “theatre” that contemporary discourse typically supposes when overlapping these topics, we will evaluate this convention and consider the reasons for its long and continuing prevalence. Share Contact CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 6924 cmes@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute