Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS For faculty Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR) Each year, OVPR gives out nearly $1.5 million in all disciplines to support faculty research and scholarship. Visit the OVPR website for the latest news and updated information on opportunities, submission guidelines, and deadlines. Brown Arts Initiative Grants Through its grant programs, the Brown Arts Initiative provides financial and other resources to Brown University faculty, professional staff and students to help realize curriculum, research and practice-based projects in the arts. Click on the website linked above for a detailed description of available grants and their corresponding application deadlines and award cycles. For questions or additional information, please contact Katie Vincelette, who can be reached at Katie_Vincelette@brown.edu. Dean of the Faculty's Lectureship Funds The Lectureships funds are intended to support proposals to bring to the campus outstanding individuals from outside the Brown community. These individuals should present lectures of a broad and interdisciplinary nature or of current interest in a special area not ordinarily available at Brown University. The intent is to introduce people and topics that stimulate thought and discussion. The proposals can be for a single lecture or for a series of lectures that follow a coherent theme. Proposals are typically due by April 15th, and the funds may be used for lectures and events in the following academic year. Award notifications are typically made by mid-May, and the funds will be made available for use after July 1st. Refer to the link above for more information. for students Brown Connect LINK Award Need funding for your unpaid or low-paying summer internship? The BrownConnect LINK program can help! More information linked on their website linked above. LINK is not your only summer funding option through BrownConnect - find information about our BrownConnect funded Signature Programs here. UTRA Karen T. Romer Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards (UTRAs) support Brown students collaborating with Brown faculty on research and teaching projects during the summer or the academic year. Named for the dean who launched the program in the 1980s, UTRAs provide students with a valuable academic experience that prepares them for graduate study and that contributes directly to course development at Brown. More information linked on their website. Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship MMUF is open to sophomores who identify as African American, Latinx, and American Indian, as well as other students with a demonstrated commitment to the goals of the program and to eradicating racial disparities in higher education. Successful applicants show exceptional academic promise and an interest in pursuing an academic career in a Mellon-designated field of study. Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship The Edward Guiliano ‘72 Global Fellowship seeks to provide undergraduate students with transformative opportunities to broaden their perspectives and interact with the world through artistic, academic and cultural experiences outside their current communities. More details can be found in the link to their website. Applications are reviewed and awarded biannually in fall and spring. Brown Arts Initiative Student Grants The Brown Arts Initiative Student Grants Program provides funding to Brown students in support of projects that involve the production, study and/or critique of the creative arts. Any currently enrolled undergraduate or graduate student in good academic standing may apply for BAI student funding. Students who have received past funding for a project may not apply for additional funding for the same project. For example, an undergraduate making a feature-length film may apply for support only once for the film; however, that same student may apply for funding for a different project. Grants of up to $1,000 are awarded each semester for projects that take place during the current or next semester. Still, searching? Visit the Fellowships@Brown Find a Fellowship page to browse all the fellowships available and the Office of Global Engagement's Grant Opportunities page. You may also search for funding on the UFunds page by logging into your Brown account. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute