Skip to content Menu About Mission Director's Message Contact Newsletter Signup People Faculty Visiting Professors DUG Leaders Undergraduate Fellows Affiliated Scholars About Affiliated Scholars Associated Graduate Students MES Graduate Student Association (MESGSA) Affiliation Request Form Staff Steering Committee Advisory Council Research Initiatives Projects Academics Undergraduate Concentration About the Concentration Arabic@Brown Undergraduate Course Listing Fall 2022 Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Spring 2018 Fall 2017 Spring 2017 Fall 2016 Spring 2016 Fall 2015 Spring 2015 Fall 2014 Featured Elective Courses Honors Thesis Featured Honors Theses Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Undergraduate Resources Alumni Pathways Graduate Students The Arts Events Upcoming Events Events by Type Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Webcasts Publications & Media Publications Articles Books Latest Newsletter Student Bulletin Print Media Annual Reports Event Programs Posters Brochures Webcasts CMES Community Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Student Spotlight Other Media Funding Research Travel Awards Undergraduate Research Travel Award Graduate Research Travel Award MES Undergraduate Fellowship Event Cosponsorship Application Project Proposal Form Resources Research Initiatives Projects Research Projects Gender Studies in the Middle East and Beyond This ongoing research project is based on the recognition that a gendered intersectional lens is central, not marginal, to a deeper analysis and understanding of political mobilizations, social developments, and cultural expressions in the Middle East. A gendered lens also allows for a comparative perspective and collaboration with other regional centers and initiatives at Brown University. The project involves panel discussions, lectures, and book talks, as well as relevant research. The project is led by Professor Nadje Al-Ali, Robert Family Professor of International Studies and professor of anthropology and Middle East studies. Racialization and Racism in the Middle East and its Diasporas Within Middle East Studies, we are intimately familiar with grinding generational struggles for dignity and freedom of colonized, occupied, disenfranchised and oppressed people in the Middle East. Yet the history of slavery and racism within the region has remained understudied, and not sufficiently engaged with. The principals are committed to to initiate internal conversations and dialogue within Brown and Middle East Studies more broadly and to organize activities which engage with the global issues of structural racism and exploitation. This initiative is co-organized and led by Professors Nadje Al-Ali and Beshara Doumani, and is supported by Africana Studies. Gender and Body Politics: Arts in the Middle East and its Diasporas In conversation with artists from the Middle East and North Africa as well as its diasporas, the Gender and Body Politics: Arts in the Middle East and its Diasporas series examines intersecting inequalities and body politics expressed, represented and transgressed in both visual and performance art. Against the backdrop of war and conflict, the rise of authoritarian regimes, displacement and diaspora mobilization, Islamophobia, ongoing orientalist depictions, and challenges linked to the Covid 19 pandemic, this series explores the ways in which artists are informed by and/or contribute to anti-racist, transnational feminist, and queer praxis. The Brown University Center for Middle East Studies (CMES) and the Columbia University Middle East Institute (MEI) joint series feature artists online and hosted in-person events. Exhibitions and performances complement the series in locations around New York City and Providence. Kurdish Studies Project Kurdish studies have historically been sidelined within Middle East studies or reduced to the study of Kurdish nationalism. While there has been a proliferation of Kurdish studies across the US and Europe in recent years, there has been only limited engagement with Kurdish society in its complexity. The aim of this project led by Nadje Al-Ali, Robert Family Professor of International Studies, is to support and contribute to critical and original Kurdish studies that combine theoretically cutting-edge and empirically grounded work while highlighting creative approaches (films, art, literature) to the study of Kurds and Kurdish societies. Kurdish Studies Events Arts and Social Change The arts have played a pivotal role in shaping and transforming Middle Eastern and Muslim societies, past and present. Through annual workshops, curated exhibits and performances, as well visiting professorships and lectures, this research initiative cultivates a network of scholars passionate about the relationship between the arts and social agency. The aim is to support, innovate, work, and shape research agendas in the fields of Islamic art and architecture, Middle Eastern cinema and photography, fine arts and visual culture, and music and dance. Israel-Palestine: Lands and Peoples This multi-year project, led by John P. Birkelund Distinguished Professor of European History Omer Bartov, seeks to provide a forum for a deeper understanding of the region and its peoples. The century-long conflict over the land of Israel/Palestine has raised a plethora of questions about historical narratives and rights of possession, the morality of return and the injustice of displacement, the correction of past wrongs and the imponderables of reconciliation, the promises and conundrums of coexistence, and the centrality of self-determination. Precisely because this is a dispute over attachment and belonging to a place that both sides consider to be their historical and spiritual home, it is exceedingly difficult for each of them to recognize the other’s longing for, yet ongoing inability, to feel at home. Israel event series Digital Islamic Humanities The Digital Islamic Humanities Project is a research initiative devoted to supporting data-driven scholarship on the history, literature, and cultures of the Islamic world. Over the past few decades, humanistic inquiry has been problematized and invigorated by technological advances and the emergence of what is referred to as the digital humanities. Across multiple disciplines, from history to literature, religious studies to philosophy, archaeology to music, scholars are tapping the extraordinary power of digital technologies to preserve, curate, analyze, visualize, and reconstruct their research objects. Through the sponsorship of annual gatherings, workshops, symposia, and other kinds of research projects, this initiative aims to support the state of the art in digital scholarship pertaining to Islamic & Middle East Studies. Digital Islamic Humanities Website Displacement Displacement is formative of power relations of inclusion and exclusion. This research initiative pushes at the seams of the humanities, social sciences, and the natural and physical sciences by exploring long-term drivers of displacement. The wager here is that focused interdisciplinary conversation about historical, ecological, and subjective dimensions of displacement as an enduring and global phenomenon, can lay the seeds for imagining alternative futures. MELLON SAWYER SEMINAR ON Displacement: 2016-17 Website DISPLACEMENT SERIES Engaged Scholarship Engaged Scholarship explores the politics and ethics of knowledge production in zones of conflict. The aim is to generate critical conversation among scholars from across the disciplines and area studies around the question of what it means to put intellectual work in the service of the social good, broadly defined. Engaged Scholarship Website Share Contact CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 6924 cmes@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute