Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Our Concentrators CLASS OF 2022 Hallie Fang-Horvath '22 is a senior from Oakland, California studying Environmental Studies and Latin American & Caribbean Studies. Her interests range from food security to immigrant rights and beyond. She loves working closely with people and communities, whether it be through the lens of human rights support, sexual health education, outdoors access empowerment, or one of the many other spheres that bring people together. She hopes to live and work in Latin America in the future, but for now, she's getting involved with the Brown and Providence communities as an interpreter with the RI Free Clinic, an outdoors trip leader, a sexual health peer educator, and a sister and friend. Hallie encourages everyone to take a LACA course, for those have been some of the most intersectional, welcoming, and creative spaces she's encountered at Brown. Heidy Mejia-Puerta (she/her/hers) is a senior from Hermiston, OR concentrating in Latin American and Caribbean Studies and Education. Heidy identifies as a first-generation, low-income, Mexican-American student who seeks to change the way in which Latinx students are taught in the educational system. She works as the Undergraduate Community Engagement Coordinator at the U-FLi Center and was also a member of the LEDA Policy Corp where she worked alongside other students to advocate for educational reform in the U.S. Some of her favorite courses at Brown have been Contemporary Social Justice in Latin Cinema with Professor Sarah Thomas and Modern Latin America with Professor Daniel Rodriguez Nell Salzman '22 is a senior from Denver, Colorado double concentrating in Comparative Literature and Latin American and Caribbean Studies. Nell has worked in Nicaragua and Ecuador and has done translation work with the Rhode Island Center for Justice. Her favorite classes at Brown have been the ones that got her involved with the Latin American community in Providence-- volunteering in ESL kindergarten classes and interviewing Latinx artists/community leaders. She is passionate about telling other peoples' stories and currently writes for the Indy. She hopes to eventually use her language skills to help Spanish-speaking immigrants, either through translation, community organizing, or legal aid. CLASS OF 2023 CLASS OF 2024 Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute