Skip to content Menu About People Administration Advisory Committee Faculty Faculty Affiliates DS DUG Student Spotlight Student Achievement Advising Requirements Pre-approved courses Language Capstone Study Abroad Timeline for DS Concentrators Declaring DS FAQ Honors Senior Thesis Thesis Writing Guide Thesis Due Dates Thesis Archive Advising Key Dates Resources Alumni & Careers Opportunities Honors Senior Thesis Advising Honors Students who demonstrate exceptional scholarship are recommended for honors in the concentration. DS students do not have to apply for honors. Guidelines for Graduating with Honors a grade of "A" in 7 out of the 10 required DS concentration courses. Grades of "S" are equivalent to a "B" a thesis judged by the advisor AND reader as meriting honors (a grade of "A"). Honors will not be awarded by the University retroactively. Therefore, students who do not complete their required work on schedule will not be able to receive honors, even if all requirements are completed at a later time. In addition to graduating with honors, students who receive their degree in Development Studies may be recommended to the Dean of the College to receive special prizes upon graduation, typically consisting of modest monetary awards. These recommendations are made by the DS Advisory Committee on the basis of (1) an evaluation of the overall work of the students in the concentration (especially in the senior seminar), and (2) DS related extracurricular activities. Theses considered for a grade of "A" must follow these guidelines: Systematic and extensive use of primary AND secondary sources. Generally 60-100 pages, double-spaced. Well-written and makes a clear contribution to a debate. The thesis is considered by the committee to make a clear and important theoretical and/or empirical contribution to the field of development studies. Both readers must agree that the thesis deserves a grade of "A". The first thesis draft is sent to the advisor, reader, AND Director by the deadline. The final thesis draft is sent to the advisor, reader, AND Director by the deadline. A bound hard copy must be provided to the Development Studies Program by the deadline. Watson Undergraduate Thesis Conference Monday and Tuesday, May 18-19, 2020 12:00 - 4:30 pm EDT (approximate) Graduating seniors in Development Studies, International Relations, and Public Policy present their senior thesis research findings on pressing global problems. Students are organized into six panels, followed by Q & A. Topics range from Effects of 'Community Schools', to Mexico's Humanitarian Migration Policy, to Queer Cambodians under the Khmer Rouge Regime. Interesting, important, and timely research accomplished by some of our best students! View program >> RESOURCES > Intro to Writing a Thesis > Getting Started > Writing the Proposal > Advisor Agreement and Proposal Form > Funding > IRB Guide DEVELOPMENT STUDIES PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Suite 215 Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 3318 dsprogram@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute