Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleAdvisingRequirementsCoursesNewsOpportunitiesResourcesUndergraduateGraduateEvents Menu About Contact Office Hours People Faculty Staff Advising Additional Support Requirements Declaring Capstone Reflection Paper Guidelines Submission Guidelines Honors & Senior Thesis FAQs Courses Core Classes Electives News Recent News News Archive 2018 2017 2016 2015 Student Spotlight Events Upcoming Events Events Archive 2021 2020 Class of 2020 Senior Theses & Capstone Award Winners Anonymous Feedback Fall 2020 Opportunities Grants & Awards 5th-Year MPA Engaged Scholars Program Brown in D.C. University Opportunities Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) Career Resources Undergraduate Group (DUG) The student-run DUG helps public policy students connect with one another, with faculty and with alumni. 2020 PLCY DUG Leaders: Finn Lowden ‘22 Environmental Policy Track, Economics Lara Kosar ‘22 Health Policy Track Nidhi Bhaskar ‘21 Health Policy Track, Archaeology/PLME program What DUGS do: hold office hours hold an April open house for prospective concentrators (required event) host visiting lecturers organize panel discussions for prospective concentrators and promote the discipline to undergraduates at concentration fairs hold information sessions on capstone options The DUG is expected to hold at least two events each semester and no fewer than four per academic year. Click here for additional DUG event ideas. Funding The DUG is eligible for annual funding of up to $1000: up to $500 from the Taubman Center will be matched by up to $500 from the Office of the Dean of the College. The student leader of the DUG must submit a letter that requests funding (specify amount), lists events and provides a budget for the academic year. The DUG's faculty advisor or department chair must also submit a written request stating the amount of departmental funds for which the DUG is requesting matching funds. Links and Contacts The Curricular Resource Center can assist with the planning and implementation of these events. Visit the Dean of the College page on DUGS for more information. OFFICE HOURS When: TBD - In the meantime, please email one of the leaders to schedule a meeting. Where: TBD Stop by to discuss the concentration or receive advice on courses or internships. Finn Lowden ‘22, finnian_lowden@brown.edu Lara Kosar ‘22, lara_kosar@brown.edu Nidhi Bhaskar ‘21, nidhi_bhaskar@brown.edu BROWN PUBLIC POLICY PROGRAM, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 publicpolicy@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute