Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Contact & Directions Annual Reports People Steering Committee Faculty Visiting Scholars Fellows Meera & Vikram Gandhi Fellows Summer Fellows Visiting Fellows Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Jindal Distinguished Lecturers Staff Research Edited Series Partners Working Papers For Students Concentration Previous SAS Thesis Course Listing Languages Study Abroad Opportunities Student Groups Prizes Prize Recipents 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 News News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Podcasts Faculty Spotlight Fellows 2014 Election Archive Events Upcoming Events Seminar Series Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Webcasts Co-sponsorship Request Opportunities CCSA Fellowship Partner Organizations Past Fellows CCSA Winter Funding Funding@Brown External Funding Resources Digital Collections 2014 Election Archive Home Opportunities CCSA Fellowship Partner Organizations Past Fellows CCSA Winter Funding Funding@Brown External Funding Center for Contemporary South Asia Fellowship Each spring CCSA offers funding for faculty, undergraduate and graduate students of Brown University. The deadline for the 2022-2023 academic year will be Monday, March 13th at noon. All applications are to be submitted via UFUNDS. Student Fellowship Overview Graduate and Undergraduate fellows of the Center for Contemporary South Asia will participate as active members of the CCSA community for a period of one year. The fellowship will commence with a funded research or internship opportunity during the summer in which the fellowship is awarded or in special cases during the academic year. Upon their return to campus student fellows will give a presentation on their summer projects, attend CCSA seminars, and have opportunities to work closely with CCSA faculty, if necessary. Fellows will also receive special invitations to attend lunches and dinners with guest speakers. Limited funding will be available during the academic year for returning fellows to attend conferences and/or organize events. Please contact Stephanie Abbott-Pandey, our program manager with additional questions. Undergraduate Research and Internships The purpose of undergraduate summer funding is to facilitate research for a senior thesis or to provide internship experience with an academic or civil society organization. Students are invited to propose work with any organization or indicate their interest in one of the Center’s partners by contacting our Center Manger. Students who are unsure of where they would like to intern or are interested in one of the initiative's partners are encouraged to discuss their interests with a faculty member as early as possible. Students who already have made contact with an organization are required to attach a letter of interest from the organization. Details about the Center’s partners, such as Janaagraha (Bangalore) and Centre for Policy Research (Delhi), and PRADAN (various) can be found on our partners page. Award: Up to a $5,000 maximum per project Eligibility: Sophomores and Juniors (Brown University Only). Deadline: Monday, March 13, 2023 at NOON Application Requirements: A two page project proposal, unofficial transcript, resume, budget, and a letter from the organization (if proposing an internship). Apply at UFunds Graduate Research, Internships or Language Training Graduate funding can be used for three purposes: research, internships, and language training. Proposals for either exploratory or advanced dissertation research will be considered. The first will cover the early years of graduate program; the second will facilitate completion of the dissertation. Language training will be for accelerated programs of language instruction. The American Institute of Indian Studies (Delhi) can assist in locating a center for specific language training. Other creative ideas are also welcome. Award: Up to a $7,500 maximum per project Eligibility: PhD candidates in all fields dealing with contemporary South Asia can apply (Brown University Only). Deadline: Monday, March 13, 2023 at NOON Application Requirements: A three page project proposal, budget, resume, unofficial transcript, and one letter of recommendation. Apply at UFunds Faculty or Postdoctoral Research or Language Training Applications will be considered from Brown University regular faculty or postdoctoral associates from any field to support research on contemporary South Asia or accelerated language training that is relevant to the region. Proposals will be evaluated based on the quality of the proposed research or training and the potential for the activity to lead to a long-term successful program of research on the region. Special consideration will be given to applications from junior faculty, especially those for whom South Asia is a new area of research. Award: Up to a $10,000 maximum per project Eligibility: Any regular Brown University Faculty Deadline: Monday, March 13, 2023 at NOON Application Requirements: A five page project proposal, budget, CV, and, for junior faculty, two letters of reference. Senior faculty need not send letters of recommendation. Awards are subject to additional university approval due to pandemic restrictions, read more in the travel policies section of the healthy Brown website. Apply at UFunds Share Contact CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY SOUTH ASIA, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 5059 southasia@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute