Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Education Undergraduate Concentration For Graduate Students Education The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies (CLACS) engages with graduate and undergraduate students from across the disciplines working on Latin America and the Caribbean and/or Latinx and Caribbean diasporic communities. CLACS supports graduate students' work on the region through fellowships, grants, and activities. Graduate students from any discipline are invited to become affiliated students. The Center also has a lively and flexible concentration and graduates approximately ten concentrators each year. The CLACS Undergraduate Fellows Program also provides support and opportunities to undergraduates. For more information, please contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Erica Durante, erica_durante@brown.edu. Undergraduate The concentration in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) leads to a strong, interdisciplinary understanding of culture, history, and contemporary issues in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Latino/a and Caribbean diaspora. Requirements are intentionally broad and flexible to accommodate the focused interests of students in understanding the diverse reality of this region. Concentration requirements include four themes: language, area studies, research, and internship/service work. The degree can be obtained with honors. The department also allows students to pursue the Engaged Scholars Program. The Engaged Scholars Program (ESP) in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACA) is designed for LACA concentrators who are especially interested in making deeper connections between their academic work and local communities in Providence and beyond. Engaged Scholars combine hands-on experiences such as internships, public service, humanitarian, and development work with their academic learning in order to develop a deeper understanding of, and appreciation for, social engagement. Graduate CLACS contributes to graduate education and training at Brown by supporting students' development through courses and events and funding opportunities such as the Tinker Field Research Grants, Sarmiento Fellowships, and the Universidad Nacional de San Martín (UNSAM) Exchange Program. The Center also offers a Certificate Program and Interdisciplinary Opportunity through the Graduate School. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute