Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleNewsEventsResearchPolls Menu Home About Director’s Message People Affiliates Staff Poll Advisory Board Student Outreach Team Program Advisory Board Taubman Research Network News Recent News News Archive 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Event Series Webcasts Join our Mailing List Request Event Support Research Research Briefs Research Conferences Taubman Faculty Books Polls All Polls For Students Resources Events Student Experiences Contact News Recent News News Archive 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Recent News Bloomberg daybreak: May 20, 2022 (interview with Wendy J. Schiller) May 25, 2022 Bloomberg Daybreak Podcast In this radio segment, Professor of Political Science Wendy Schiller discusses politics, the economy, and the primary and general elections. more "‘Midland, not Moscow!’ — Texas offers a global antidote to Moscow’s aggression" (written by Deborah Gordon) May 25, 2022 Midland Reporter- Telegram Deborah Gordon writes for Midland Reporter-Telegram, "the U.S. can double down on cleaner energy now. There’s no place better than Texas to make the first move." more Bloomberg Daybreak: May 25, 2022 (interview with Wendy J. Schiller) May 25, 2022 Bloomberg Daybreak Podcast In this radio segment, Professor of Political Science Wendy Schiller discusses gun laws in the U.S and the primary elections in several states. more "Is inequality widening in Poland?" (comments by Anthony Levitas) May 25, 2022 Deutsche Welle Taubman Affiliate Anthony Levitas offered commentary for Deutsche Welle, on the methodology used by a new report that measures social inequality in Europe. more "Q&A: How Measuring the Differences Between Barrels of Oil Improves Climate Policy" (interview with Deborah Gordon) May 23, 2022 The Good Men Project Deborah Gordon joined The Good Men Project for a discussion of her research and its public policy and private sector implications. more "Scottish independence: Andrew Wilson rejects claims by 'doomsayers'" (Mark Blyth comments) May 22, 2022 The National "Independence would be unravelling 300 years of history and would require a 'leap of faith' – but that doesn’t mean it should not be done", Mark Blyth comments in The National. more "The ‘Great Replacement Theory’ Is a Lie. It’s Also a Threat to Schools" (written by Jonathan Collins) May 19, 2022 Education Week Jonathan Collins explains in Education Week, "What the hateful ideology behind the Buffalo shooting means for educators" more "15 months and counting, massive China bill tests ability of a divided US Congress to compromise" (Richard Arenberg comments) May 15, 2022 South China Morning Post Richard Arenberg in South China Morning Post, "It can’t just be the Democrats negotiating with themselves." more "Abortion battle moves to homes of Supreme Court justices" (Rob Blair comments) May 10, 2022 The Hill Rob Blair comments on activists gathering outside the homes of three conservative Supreme Court justices to protest Roe v. Wade’s potential demise. more "Will Trump’s ‘reckless’ endorsements be a referendum on his political power?" (Commentary by Wendy Schiller) April 19, 2022 The Gaurdian Taubman Center Director Dr. Wendy Schiller offers commentary on the numerous endorsements made by former president Donald Trump. more "What’s Happened to the K-12 Education Labor Market During the Pandemic?" (Matthew Kraft and Joshua Bleiberg) April 19, 2022 Future Ed more "Can executive actions save Democrats in the midterms?" (Commentary by Eric Patashnik) April 3, 2022 Vox Julis-Rabinowitz Professor of Public Policy and Chair of Political Science Eric Patashnik in Vox, "It’s possible this could have some influence on vote choices in the midterms, but the impact will be at the margin.” more "The U.S. will ship more liquefied natural gas to Europe starting next winter" (Interview with Jeff Colgan) March 28, 2022 NPR In this interview, Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs Jeff Colgan discusses how the United States plans to help Europe diminish its reliance on Russian natural gas. more "Amid crisis in Ukraine, Brown community unites to provide support, host discussions" (Featuring Anthony Levitas March 21, 2022 Brown University Taubman Affiliate Anthony Levitas helps lead endeavour raising over $42,000 for Ukrainian citizens admist crisis. more Wendy Schiller moderates annual Alexander Meiklejohn lecture, featuring Ana Navarro March 16, 2022 The Brown Daily Herald more "Bloomberg Daybreak: March 8, 2022" (Commentary by Wendy Schiller) March 8, 2022 Bloomberg Director of the Taubman Center Professor Wendy Schiller speaks with Bloomberg News on current events and politics. more "Debunking the myth that teachers stop improving after five years" (Research cited by John Papay and Matthew Kraft) March 7, 2022 The Hechinger Report Studies by Assistant Professors of Education John Papay and Matthew Kraft found more seasoned teachers were continuing to improve at their profession beyond the first five years of their career. more "Whatever His Motives, Putin’s War in Ukraine Is Fueled by Oil and Gas" (Commentary by Jeff Colgan) March 6, 2022 Inside Climate News Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs Jeff Colgan comments on Russia as a "petrostate" and the implications this has on the Ukraine crisis. more "4 priorities for K-12 in Biden's first State of the Union address" (Commentary by Matthew Kraft) March 3, 2022 K12 Dive Associate Professor of Education and Economics Matthew Kraft comments on social-emotional health and mental well-being as national priorities under the Biden administration. more "Updated Chetty study data paints a surprising picture of economic mobility in Mecklenburg County" (Work Featured by John Friedman) March 1, 2022 WFAE 90.7 Associate Professor of Economics and International and Public Affairs John Friedman's study exposes different economic trends across countries in South Carolina. more "There’s a reason Putin can be so aggressive: Oil." (Written by Jeff Colgan) February 27, 2022 The Washington Post Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs, Jeff Colgan co-wrote this piece on how "Russia’s personalist domestic politics and its oil and gas wealth also contributed to [the country's recent] aggression." more "Better teacher feedback can happen outside of the evaluation process" (Written by Matthew Kraft) February 24, 2022 Brookings Institution Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft recently penned this piece on evaluation systems for teachers. more "Watson Fellow’s book ‘No Standard Oil’ addresses climate change" (Deborah Gordon Cited) February 23, 2022 The Brown Daily Herald This article by The Brown Daily Herald covers Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs Deborah Gordon's latest book on the oil and gas industries and climate change policies. more "Nextdoor Publishes First Annual 2021 Transparency Report" (Commentary by Marc Dunkelman) February 23, 2022 Business Wire In this article, Fellow in International and Public Affairs Marc Dunkelman notes, "So frequently left out of the equation when we think about tech is the quality of the relationships formed online — in too many cases they're shallow, temporary, and transactional. Nextdoor is proving that tech can be a gateway to healthier, more meaningful, longer-lasting real ties within a community." more "Bias against boys? The gender gap in schools" (Interview with Jayanti Owens) February 14, 2022 NBC 10 News In this article, Mary Tefft and John Hazen White, Sr. Assistant Professor of Public and International Affairs and Sociology Jayanti Owens says the lack of time for play in many schools can be tougher on boys in particular. more "U. faculty work to accommodate students in isolation" (Commentary by Pierre de Galbert) February 9, 2022 The Brown Daily Herald Visiting Assistant Professor in Education Studies Pierre de Galbert provided commentary in recent article about adapting classes to accomodate students in isolation, “I teach two classes this semester that are very different in size, which changes how I work to accommodate students who are sick or otherwise unable to attend class in person,” de Galbert said. more "Putin Has a Big Piece of Leverage Over Europe. Here’s How to Take It Away" (Written by Jeff Colgan) February 8, 2022 Politico Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs Jeff Colgan in Politico, "Energy crises — whether their causes are natural or geopolitical — shouldn’t become excuses to backpedal on climate goals." more "Professor Andrea Flores and Colleagues from Brown, UConn awarded NSF Grant" (Andrea Flores Cited) February 7, 2022 Brown Department of Education Assistant Professor of Education Andrea Flores, and her colleagues at Brown University and UConn have been awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) grant to address the impact of COVID-19 on first-generation college students and their families in the U.S. more "As schools push for more tutoring, new research points to its effectiveness — and the challenge of scaling it to combat learning loss" (Commentary by Matthew Kraft) February 7, 2022 LA School Report Associate Professor of Education Matthew Kraft, “There’s this explicit interpretation, which I’ve written about in my own work, that higher amounts of tutoring produce better results. What we do see very clearly is this difference across our higher- vs. lower-dosage waves, which were consistent with that pattern.” more "Like it or not, the government needs greater power to fight pandemics" (Written by James Morone) February 6, 2022 The Hill John Hazen White Professor of Public Policy and Professor of Political Science and Urban Studies James Morone co-wrote this piece on the need for "changes in executive authority, Congressional process and bureaucratic capacity." more "HOW BITCOIN ADOPTION COULD BRING MAJOR PROSPERITY TO PUERTO RICO" (Mark Blyth Cited) January 31, 2022 Bitcoin Magazine This article cites Director of the William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance, Mark Blyth's recent book, “Angrynomics.” more "Bloomberg Daybreak: January 27, 2022" (Interview with Wendy Schiller) January 27, 2022 Bloomberg Daybreak Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center, Wendy Schiller, discusses how President Joe Biden will handle a Supreme Court vacancy. more "Schumer Eyes Quick Timeline for Breyer Replacement (Audio)" (Interview with Wendy Schiller) January 27, 2022 Bloomberg In this interview, Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center, Wendy Schiller talks about the Supreme Court with Bloomberg's Nathan Hager. more "Moment Debate | Is the Filibuster Good for Democracy?" (Interview with Richard Arenberg) January 27, 2022 Moment In this debate, Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs and Visiting Professor of the Practice of Political Science Richard Arenberg argues in favor of the fillibuster. more "Democrats Pursue Legislative Wins in Challenging Election Year" (Commentary by Wendy Schiller) January 21, 2022 Bloomberg Government Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center Wendy Schiller provided commentary on what Democrats need to do to push through key legislation and keep control of the House of Representatives in 2022. more "Divorce Is Hard. Here’s How You Can Help Those Going Through One." (Rose McDermott Cited) January 19, 2022 The New York Times This article cites a 2013 longitudinal study headed by David and Marianna Fisher University Professor of International Relations Rose McDermott. more "The Future of Biden's Policy" (Interview with Wendy Schiller) January 11, 2022 Bloomberg Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center Wendy Schiller joined this Bloomberg podcast segment to discuss President Biden's next steps. more "Don't Give Up on Teacher Evaluation Reforms" (Matthew Kraft Cited) January 10, 2022 Aol This article talks cites Associate Professor of Education and Economics Matthew Kraft, and talks about a recently released study by researchers from Brown University, the University of Connecticut, the University of North Carolina and Michigan State that examined the effects of teacher evaluation reforms on student outcomes across the country. more "Casey, Senate hopeful Lamb say end the filibuster. Manchin, Sinema want to protect historic rule" (Commentary by Richard Arenberg) January 9, 2022 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs and Visiting Professor of the Practice of Political Science, Richard Arenberg, provided commentary in this article stating, "It really comes down to this fundamental question of whether or not you think it’s a good thing for a president with a legislative majority to be able to do things without any bipartisan input." more "Could the Republican Party be headed toward a civil war in 2022?" (Commentary by Wendy Schiller) January 4, 2022 Deseret News Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center, Wendy Schiller, provides commentary, sharing her thoughts on whether a "Trump endorsement" helps or hurts the GOP in 2022. more "Ending the filibuster won’t fix the Senate’s dysfunction" (Written by Richard Arenberg) January 4, 2022 The Washington Post Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs and Visiting Professor of the Practice of Political Science, Richard Arenberg, penned this article on the history of the filibuster over the past 40 years. more "How the politics of prosecco explain what took the fizz out of the Democrats" (Written by Mark Blyth) December 31, 2021 The Guardian Director of the William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance, William R. Rhodes ’57 Professor of International Economics, and Professor of International and Public Affairs, Mark Blyth, penned this article on regional growth models and compares carbon states to the rise of the Prosecco industry. more "The best work on political economy in 2021" (Jeff Colgan Cited) December 30, 2021 The Washington Post Richard Holbrooke Associate Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs and Director of Climate Solutions Lab Jeff Colgan's “Asset Revaluation and the Existential Politics of Climate Change," co-written with Jessica Green and Thomas Hale, is honored as one of the best works on political economy in 2021. more "Surveillance: The Bull Case With Armstrong" (Interview with Wendy Schiller) December 28, 2021 Bloomberg Surveillance Royce Family Professor of Teaching Excellence in Political Science and Director of the Taubman Center, Wendy Schiller, appeared on this podcast segment of Bloomberg Surveillance to discuss Biden's plans for 2022. more Share Contact Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 5316 taubman_center@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute