Skip to content - Any -AboutPeopleResearchPublicationsFor StudentsCIPNewsExplore WatsonWatson MinuteEventsPartnershipsOpportunities Menu About Director's Message Contact and Directions Get Involved E-News Signup History Diversity and Inclusion People Faculty Watson Faculty Watson Faculty Fellows Senior Fellows Visiting Fellows Faculty Emeriti Military Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Board of Governors Find an Expert For Students Student Experience Undergraduate Master of Public Affairs Graduate Program in Development Student Advisory Council Student Resources Career Resources Student Events Senior Fellow Office Hours News News from Watson 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2012 2016 2015 2014 2013 In the News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics Events Upcoming Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2010 2011 Event Series Webcasts Art at Watson Co-sponsored Events Co-sponsorship Request Space Request Join E-Mail List Research Research Briefs 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Archived Research Find an Expert Publications Research Topics 21st Century Economic Challenges Future of the Welfare State Global Health Industrialization, Governance, and Technology Liberal and Illiberal Democracy Migration and Displacement Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Power Security, Stabilization, and Conflict Avoidance Urban Governance Centers & Programs Africa Initiative Brazil Initiative Center for Contemporary South Asia Center for Human Rights and Humanitarian Studies Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies Center for Middle East Studies China Initiative Climate Solutions Lab Costs of War Project JFK Jr. Film Initiative The William R. Rhodes Center for International Economics and Finance Postdoctoral Fellows Program Senior Fellows Program Stone Inequality Initiative Taubman Center for American Politics and Policy Opportunities Faculty Graduate Postdoc Undergraduate Employment Opportunities News News from Watson In the News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Q&A Podcasts Student Experience Trending Topics News Archive 2010 And the Word of the Year is ... Austerity December 21, 2010 Merriam-Webster yesterday declared “austerity” the US word of the year for 2010. Earlier this year, Faculty Fellow Mark Blyth was featured in an Institute-produced animated video short of the same name. In it, he describes the thinking behind austerity policies being pursued in many countries as inherently flawed. Then again, as Blyth recounts in a new interview on Open Source, 2011 will be worse... and life will go on. more In Memoriam: Richard Holbrooke, Peace Negotiator December 14, 2010 Ambassador Richard Holbrooke is being remembered at Brown and around the world today for his wide-ranging diplomatic achievements, following his death yesterday at the age of 69. University President Ruth Simmons issued a statement last night mourning the loss of a man who was a commanding figure on the world stage but also an engaged member of the Brown community, as a graduate of the University’s class of ’62, former editor of the Brown Daily Herald, honorary Brown doctor of law, former member of the Watson Institute’s board of overseers, and most recently, Brown professor at large based at the Institute. more Video Captures Bot?n Scholars at Brown December 13, 2010 Forty top students from Latin America recently completed a 10-week program to strengthen their vocation for public service, under a program designed by the Fondación Marcelino Botín in collaboration with Brown University. more Leading Journalist Discusses Regional Implications of Afghan Conflict December 9, 2010 The situation in Afghanistan “is a daunting challenge, and talk of American withdrawal is not going to help,” said Pakistani journalist and news editor Najam Sethi during a recent talk at the Institute. Sethi intertwined political commentary with personal stories of imprisonment and close shaves in the strongholds of terrorist leaders. Ultimately, he painted a nightmarish vision of Pakistan’s entanglement with the Afghani Taliban. more Lutz Wins Anthropology Prize, Posts New Video on Nation's Mounting Car Debt December 8, 2010 Institute Professor Catherine Lutz was recently awarded the Society for the Anthropology of North America’s prize for distinguished achievement in the critical study of North America. The co-author most recently of Carjacked: The Culture of the Automobile and its Effects on Our Lives (Palgrave Macmillan, 2010), Lutz has been particularly vocal recently about car loans – “a massive load of debt … that has grown to become a larger component of national household debt than credit cards, itself a crushing $800 billion dollars,” as she writes this week on the Huffington Post. A video inspired by her book accompanies her opinion piece. more Video Describes Watson Work with AGORA Network on Global Economic Policy December 6, 2010 In recent months, the Watson Institute has been working with the Alliance for Governance Research and Analysis (AGORA), formed by Watson, Warwick University’s Centre for the Study of Globalisation and Regionalisation, the Global Governance program at the Robert S. Strauss Center at the University of Texas at Austin, the Norwegian Institute for International Affairs (NUPI), the International Center for Business and Politics (CBP) at the Copenhagen Business School, and the Centre for Governance and Public Policy (CGPP) at Griffith University, Queensland. more Blogging the Cancun Climate Change Talks December 3, 2010 Ten Brown students and J. Timmons Roberts, director of the Center for Environmental Studies, are blogging developments at the global climate talks this week in Cancun, Mexico, supported in part by the Watson Institute. The talks are part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, established in 1992 as an attempt to limit the man-made emissions that are contributing to global warming. more Participatory Budgeting on League of Cities Agenda December 3, 2010 The Participatory Budgeting Project co-hosted a workshop in Denver this week at the 2010 Congress of the National League of Cities, the annual gathering of municipal government officials. more Brown Afghanistan Working Group Hosts UN Official November 29, 2010 The Brown Afghanistan Working Group is co-hosting a public lecture at the Watson Institute this week featuring Richard Barrett, the United Nations Coordinator of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Implementation Monitoring Team (also known as the Al-Qaeda/Taliban Monitoring Team). His Thursday 4pm talk on “Al-Qaeda and the Taliban: Common Threat or Separable Challenges?” continues a long-running collaboration between the Institute and the UN on counter-terrorism. more Alvarez Calls for New US-Mexico Relationship November 28, 2010 When the United States enjoys economic expansion, the boom also profits Mexican industry, exports, and migrants. But when the northern neighbor stumbles – as during the 2008 financial crisis – Mexico suffers devastating losses, according to Alejandro Alvarez, professor of economics at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). “We have interconnected stories,” said Alvarez during a recent talk at the Institute. “If you take a picture of North America today, it’s a social disaster,” he said, attributing many of the region’s problems to unregulated globalization. more Analyzing Enlightenment and Change in the Middle East November 10, 2010 The concept of “enlightenment” suggests the possibility to challenge one’s assumptions and gain new perspective. However, in an area as troubled as the Middle East, what does it mean to “become enlightened?” Can intellectual enlightenment effect concrete change? In her recent talk at the Institute, Elizabeth Kassab explored how Arab thinkers have understood enlightenment from the mid-19th century to the present. more Workshop: Elections Highlight Brazil's Transformation November 10, 2010 The recent presidential election in booming Brazil broke racial, media, and gender barriers, according to a workshop hosted recently at the Institute. more Conference on Pius XI Debates Papal Role in WWII November 10, 2010 A two-day conference, “Pius XI and America,” recently brought international scholars to Brown to discuss newly released documents from the Vatican archives. They discussed the papacy of Pope Pius XI and his relationship with the United States and Nazi and fascist leaders in Europe. more Theidon: Former Combatants Test Colombia as a Post-Conflict State November 9, 2010 The shaky reinsertion of former combatants in Colombia highlights the elusiveness of reconciliation after more than four decades of violent civil war, according to medical anthropologist Kimberly Theidon. “Reconciliation is very elusive as both a concept and a goal,” said Theidon, the John L. Loeb Associate Professor of the Social Sciences at Harvard University, in a recent talk at the Institute. more Nigerian Festival Portrays Conflict November 9, 2010 In September of 2001, New York was not the only city to shake with violence. Between September 7th and September 13th, the city of Jos in Plateau State, Nigeria, became the scene of mass killings between Christians and Muslims. On September 11th, several Muslims celebrated. On September 12th, Christians retaliated. Houses were burned. Stores looted. Outlying villages razed. According to Human Rights Watch, as many as 1,000 people lost their lives. These are the events that inspired The Rocks Cry Out, an anthology of non-fiction and poetry edited by Deborah Kline, a writer and former professor of English who lives in Plateau State, Nigeria. As part of a festival of Nigerian literature and film of the same name, Klein joined Dul Johnson, Nigerian author, filmmaker, and one of Brown University’s current International Writers Project fellows, to read selections from the anthology. more In FT: Varshney Urges New US-India Relationship November 5, 2010 As President Obama starts his visit to India on Saturday, how will he frame the two powers' relationship? Will he present the India-US friendship as an expression of core political values – freedom to vote, speak, move and worship, and tolerance of religious and ethnic diversity – that they share? Will he present that bond as a cornerstone of a new order, especially given the absence of political freedoms in a rising China? Will he even take the momentous step of endorsing India's bid for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council? He should," Faculty Fellow Ashutosh Varshney writes today in an op-ed in the Financial Times. more Authors Tell the Stories of Anti-War Vets November 4, 2010 In a new video, Brown Vice President for International Affairs Matthew Gutmann and Institute Professor Catherine Lutz describe their experience interviewing dozens of anti-war veterans and compiling the results into their book, Breaking Ranks: Iraq Veterans Speak Out against the War (University of California Press, 2010). “As anthropologists, we approached these veterans as people who were American, who grew up in the late 20th and early 21st century, and are really products of that society and its values about masculinity, nation, and the individual — and we focused on how they think about their experience from that perspective,” said Lutz. “These are not universal, natural, inevitable kinds of soldiers. They are very much American soldiers.” more Environmentalists Assemble at Institute November 4, 2010 Representatives of more than 25 institutional recipients of grants from the Luce Foundation’s environmental initiative are assembling at the Institute on Friday and Saturday to discuss "The Environment and Higher Education: Past, Present, and Future." more Grassroots Democracy Project Highlighted on Election Day November 3, 2010 How does participatory budgeting work? How well does it work? Institute Associate Professor Gianpaolo Baiocchi and Chicago City Alderman Joe Moore reflected on WBEZ Radio recently on this grassroots democratic process in the city’s 49th Ward. more In the Atlantic: Andreas Describes Potential Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Mexico November 3, 2010 Institute Professor Peter Andreas is cited by Atlantic Monthly in one of “Five Expert Takes on How US Marijuana Legalization Would Affect Mexico.” Among his remarks: “Colombia was ground zero for the international drug war 25 years ago and now Mexico is, and they're getting all the attention. They're very apprehensive about the analogy. Colombia had no hesitation about Americanizing their war on drugs – accepting US advisors and aide and technology and so on. Mexico is much more reluctant to embrace a similar relationship." more Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next › last » Share Contact Jobs WATSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2809 watson_institute@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute