Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Contact & Directions Annual Reports People Steering Committee Faculty Visiting Scholars Fellows Meera & Vikram Gandhi Fellows Summer Fellows Visiting Fellows Postdoctoral Associates Graduate Students Jindal Distinguished Lecturers Staff Research Edited Series Partners Working Papers For Students Concentration Previous SAS Thesis Course Listing Languages Study Abroad Opportunities Student Groups Prizes Prize Recipents 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 News News 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Podcasts Faculty Spotlight Fellows 2014 Election Archive Events Upcoming Events Seminar Series Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Webcasts Co-sponsorship Request Opportunities CCSA Fellowship Partner Organizations Past Fellows CCSA Winter Funding Funding@Brown External Funding Resources Digital Collections 2014 Election Archive Home Opportunities CCSA Fellowship CCSA Winter Funding Funding@Brown External Funding External Funding American India Foundation William J. Clinton Fellowship for Service in India The American India Foundation (AIF) William J. Clinton Fellowship for Service in India is a ten month long fellowship that pairs young professionals with leading NGos and social enterprises in India. MORE INFORMATION American Institute of Bangladesh Studies In 1993, AIBS became a member of the Council of American Overseas Research Centers (CAORC) and since then has received funds from CAORC to continue these programs. Founded in 1981, CAORC is a private not-for-profit federation of 22 independent overseas research centers that promote advanced research, particularly in the humanities and social sciences, with focus on the conservation and recording of cultural heritage and the understanding and interpretation of modern societies. CAORC fosters research projects across national boundaries, encourages collaborative research and programmatic and administrative coherence among member centers, and works to expand their resource base and service capacity. AIBS launched the Dhaka Center in 2010, which facilitates AIBS Fellows, hosts a montly lecture series, and hosts a JSTOR access computer for scholarly research. MORE INFORMATION American Institute of Indian Studies American Institute of Indian Studies has opportunities for undergraduates, graduate students, and faculty to conduct language study, research, and educational courses in India. Language courses are offered in the summer, for a semester, or for one academic year. There are research fellowship opportunities in all fields, ranging from anthropoogy to urban planning, ethnomusicology to political science. Fellowship opportunities are located around India. MORE INFORMATION American Institute of Pakistan Studies The American Institute of Pakistan Studies (AIPS), established in 1973, is a bi-national research and education organization with a mission to promote academic study of Pakistan in the US and to encourage scholarly exchange between the US and Pakistan. MORE INFORMATION Centre for the Study of Developing Societies Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) has several opportunities to study in India. CSDS has two year doctoral fellowships, writing fellowships for activists, study abroad visits for university professors, and an internship program. CSDS is located in Delhi, India. MORE INFORMATION Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellowship in India The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) has an opportunity for an International Affairs Fellowship in India for individuals to conduct independent foreign policy analysis in India. MORE INFORMATION Fulbright Fellowships The U.S. Department of State has opportunities for individuals to conduct research or English teaching in India under the Fulbright-Nehru Fellowship. MORE INFORMATION Indian Institute of Advanced Study Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS) has opportunities for fellows to conduct research int he humanities, social sciences, and natural and life sciences. IIAS is located in Shimla, India. MORE INFORMATION Inclusive Media for Change Inclusive Media for Change (im4change) provides a fellowship opportunity for journalists working in English and Hindi to produce a series of stories, radio, or television programs engaging with rural communities in India. MORE INFORMATION Indian Council of Social Science Research Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) has opportunities for prominent social scientists, young scholars, and doctoral studients to conduct social science research related to India. MORE INFORMATION Indo-US Science and Technology Forum Indo-US Science and Technology Forum offers funding for activities and initiatives that engage the scientific and research communities in India and the US. MORE INFORMATION Jawaharlal Nehru University Institute of Advanced Study Jawaharlal Nehru University Institute of Advanced Study (JNIAS) has fellowship opportunities for scholars, activists, or professionals working in JNIAS fields of study, including: life sciences and human interaction, sustainable development, social movements, globalization studies, and more. MORE INFORMATION Social Science Research Council Social science Research Council (SSRC), housed in Brooklyn, NY, has information on social science fellowships and grants for social scientists conducting innovative research on public issues. MORE INFORMATION Taraknath Das Foundation The Taraknath Das Foundation offers grants averaging $3000 to $7000 to graduate students holding Indian passports and enrolled in American universities in any field of study. Applicants should have completed one year of graduate work in the United States.To apply, please go to the following website and apply on line. MORE INFORMATION U.S. Department of State Franklin Fellowship The U.S. Department of State's Franklin Fellowship provides an opportunity for academic experts and private sector individuals to spend at least one year applying their knowledge to foreign policy at the U.S. Department of State. MORE INFORMATION Share Contact CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY SOUTH ASIA, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 111 Thayer Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 5059 southasia@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute