Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Education Undergraduate Concentration For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award CLACS Certificate Program The Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies is proud to announce a doctoral specialization certificate program open to enrolled PhD students. Brown University currently offers several such programs, which are designed to extend expertise into interdisciplinary areas and to certify training beyond the home Ph.D. discipline. They promise to advance student careers as well as promote intellectual exchange and community in these academic areas. The CLACS Certificate Program requirements are listed below: 1) Pre-requisite certification of language ability if applicable. Students whose native language is English and who are researching in English do not require a language certificate. 2) Students will be required to pass four graduate courses focusing on the region, including Latinx populations and the Caribbean diaspora.. The courses must be in at least three different departments (one of these courses may be taken in the student’s home department) and must be approved by the CLACS Director; approval after the fact is possible. Only one may be a language course. A minimum grade of either Satisfactory or C in a 1000 or 2000 level course carries credit toward all advanced degrees. There are no restrictions on whether the courses are graded or S/NC. 3) Students will be required to write a short (3-5 pages double spaced) narrative rationale of how those classes cohere into an advanced interdisciplinary course of study. Please submit the rationale to clacs@brown.edu. 4) Students will be required to formally present their Latin American/Caribbean related research to CLACS at some point during their affiliation. 5) Students should submit a PDF of their transcript to clacs@brown.edu Successful completion of the requirements of the certificate program will be recognized on the Brown University transcript with a notation indicating the field of advanced specialization. Although approved programs may be informally described as “certificates,” no separate document will be awarded by the Registrar. Students may apply to the certificate program at any point, including after the requirements have been met. Click here for the application. For more information, or to apply to this program, please contact Center Manager Kate Goldman at kate_goldman@brown.edu. Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute