Skip to content Menu About Director's Message Visitor Logistics People Director, Faculty, and Staff Affiliated Faculty Visiting Faculty Affiliated Graduate Students Our Concentrators Advisory Committee Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Dissertations CLACS Certificate Program Sarmiento Research Award Events Upcoming Events Community Events Events from our Partners Sawyer Seminar Events Event Archive 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Webcasts Publications Annual Reports Focus on Faculty Reports Affiliated Faculty Publications CLACS Letters from our Director Archive CLACS Newsletter Archive News Recent News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Announcements CLACS Spotlight Sawyer Seminar News Opportunities CLACS Fellowships and Professorships Graduate Student Opportunities Undergraduate Opportunities Co-Sponsorship Requests Funding Opportunities Beyond CLACS Home Education Undergraduate Concentration Concentration Padlet Capstone Project Departmental Undergraduate Group (DUG) Forms Requirements Engaged Scholars Certificate Honors Courses Theses Index For Graduate Students Honors in Latin American and Caribbean Studies Honors Qualified undergraduates may work towards the A.B. in Latin American and Caribbean Studies with Honors. Requirements to graduate with Honors: Maintenance of at least an A- average in the ten courses counting for the Latin American and Caribbean Studies concentration Maintenance of at least a B+ average in all course work at Brown Completion of a senior honors thesis or project with a grade of A Grades of S do not negatively affect the eligibility for honors. Graduating seniors with Honors in Latin American and Caribbean Studies are eligible for an award administered by the concentration for Outstanding Senior Thesis or Project. Senior Honors Thesis or Project Timeline: For Senior-Year Students- By the end of sixth semester: Students fill and submit a one page proposal to the concentration advisor the Honors Thesis Declaration Form available online in the LACA Undergraduate Concentration webpage (https://watson.brown.edu/clacs/education/undergraduate). In the form, they are expected to indicate their thesis or project title and short description. The Honors Thesis Declaration Form must be signed by a primary advisor. Students who study abroad spring semester junior year may apply for admission to the Honors Program but must meet the application deadline. Students in this position should start thinking about a proposal and contact advisors well in advance. By January 15: Students submit the first section of their thesis or project to their research advisor for review. They should agree with their advisor on the schedule for the remaining portions. By March 15: A draft of the entire thesis or project is due to the primary advisor and the secondary reader for review and feedback. By 5 pm EST on April 15: The final, complete senior honors thesis or project is due. Students submit one copy each to the primary advisor and the secondary reader. Students submit one paper copy and one electronic copy to the concentration advisor and one electronic copy to the Brown Library Digital Repository (BDR). For Mid-Year Completors: Mid-year completors must apply for the Honors Program their 6th semester, as 2nd semester Juniors. They undertake the thesis in their 7th and 8th semesters, allowing them to complete the following Honors course sequence: By the end of the 6th semester: Students fill and submit to the concentration advisor the Honors Thesis Declaration Form available online in the LACA Undergraduate Concentration webpage (https://watson.brown.edu/clacs/education/undergraduate). In the form, they are expected to indicate their thesis or project title and short description. The Honors Thesis Declaration Form must be signed by a primary advisor. By September 15: Students submit the first section of their thesis or project to their research advisor for review. They should agree with their advisor on the schedule for the remaining portions. By October 15: A draft of the entire thesis or project is due to the primary advisor and the secondary reader for review and feedback. By 5 pm on November 15: The final, complete senior honors thesis or project is due. Students submit one cooy each to the primary advisor and the secondary reader. Students submit one paper copy and one electronic copy to the concentration advisor and one electronic copy to the Brown Library Digital Repository (BDR). Share Contact CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN STUDIES, Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs 59 Charlesfield Street, Brown University, Box 1970 Providence, RI USA 02912-1970 P +1 401 863 2645 clacs@brown.edu © 2022 Watson Institute