Skip to main content School of Undergraduate Studies The Unversity of Texas at Austin Wayfinder Home Assess Your Strengths Explore Degrees Gain Experience My Dashboard Open Secondary Menu Open Search Career Fields Career Stories For Parents Get Advice Talk to an academic advisor or career counselor Find a job or internship Stay current with major and career-related news Career Fields Career Stories For Parents My Dashboard Search the Wayfinder Site Get Advice Talk to an academic advisor or career counselor Find a job or internship Stay current with major and career-related news Latest from @Wayfinder_UT An update! The spring 2022 application deadline has been extended to March 11 by 8:00 a.m. The fall 2022 deadline w… https://t.co/CTAeICDqLD If you are interesting in spending your summer session 1 in New York City 🗽 make sure to check the application for… https://t.co/fZYCQxjdTn RT @LiberalArtsUT: The March 1st UTNY deadline is closer than you might think. Apply now to explore the Big Apple while still working towar… Find your Major. Create Your Future. Assess Your Strengths Discover who you are and where your interests lie Get started Explore Degrees Learn about the majors, minors, and certificates offered at UT Start exploring Gain Experience Enhance your degree with opportunities outside the classroom Discover how Let's Figure This Out Where Are You Headed? Use Wayfinder to choose an academic path and explore career opportunities Don’t know what you want to do with the rest of your life? Don’t worry—you’re not alone. A lot of University of Texas students come to college undecided, and it’s common for students to change majors. Uncertainty is normal! Wayfinder can help you explore your options and move you toward a first career you’ll love. Source: The Atlantic 63% of paid interns get job offers following their internships Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, April 2008 3 - 5 Avg. No. of Times American workers switch jobs by age 38 Source: Gordon, V. N. (1995). The undecided college student: An academic and career advising challenge (2nd. ed.). Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas. 65% of students change majors at least once in college What’s My Dashboard? Your Dashboard is where you can complete Wayfinder’s self-assessment activities, and review your saved degrees and career stories. The activities won’t give you career suggestions, but will help you assess your strengths. Visit Your Dashboard Goings On Latest from Wayfinder Success Starts Here: College is About Learning How to Think Former UT Student Body President Kevin Helgren reflects on his time at UT to share his experiences with undergraduates across the Forty Acres. Explore Degrees UT in New York Summer Session 1 Application Deadline If you are interesting in spending your summer session 1 in New York City, make sure to check the application for UT in New [...] Read the latest Announcement Emily Judas Occupational Therapist Working @ Illinois Bone and Joint Institute I work as an OT in an orthopedic outpatient clinic. I treat patients with injury or pain throughout the upper [...] Get inspired with the latest Career Story Assess Your Strengths Explore Degrees Gain Experience About Career Fields Career Stories For Parents Announcements Contact Us School of Undergraduate Studies ©2022 Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy