Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Womens Community Center Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About Us History WCC Professional Staff WCC Student Staff WCC Student Interns Women's Voluntary Student Organizations WCC Logo WCC Programs Events & Programs Pathways Program Feminist Narratives Feminist Discussions Program Stanford Gender, Equity, and Justice Summit WCC STEM Program Get Involved Work at the WCC Intern at the WCC Advancing Gender Equity Fellowship Men at the WCC About the Men & Masculinities Project Events with the Masculinities Project Recommended Resources from the Masculinities Project Resources Feminist Websites, Blogs, and Resources How to Help a Friend Grad Women Alumni The WCC Space COVID-19 Update Main content start Welcome to the Women's Community Center Come check out our NEW WCC ONLINE website and follow us on Instagram where you can find the most up to date info, opportunities, and resources from the Stanford Women's Community Center! COVID-19 Update for Fall 2021: In accordance with safety precautions issued by Santa Clara County and Stanford University, the Centers for Equity Community and Leadership (ECL) are looking forward to a safe and responsible reopening in Fall 2021. We will continue to prioritize safety, community-building, and diversity and equity and are working actively to determine the details of our Fall plans. Stay tuned! Come visit the WCC on the first floor of the Fire Truck House and check out... • Comfy couches & big community tables – great spots to study or hang out • “Of Course I’m a Feminist” stickers (sparkly, rainbow, or black & white) • Programming & events (or sign up for our mailing list, which includes our weekly "Love Notes from the WCC" email) • WCC Feminist Library • Info about the 40+ Gender Equity focused student organizations on campus . . . and more! Can't visit the space? Check out our Feminist Voices Podcast, our Feminist Narratives Zine, and our Femtastic Blog from anywhere in the world! We welcome those of all genders, identities, and backgrounds. Our Mission The Women's Community Center exists to facilitate growth and engagement for Stanford students around issues of gender, equity, identity, and justice. We do this by building community and providing innovative opportunities to explore scholarship, leadership, and activism. Our approach is inclusive, intersectional, and welcoming of people of any background or level of prior engagement with these issues. More about the WCC Would you like to make a donation to the WCC? Thinking of donating to the WCC? We’d love your support in our programs and offerings to provide opportunities to engage around issues of gender, equity, identity, and justice. Please click on the link below and select “Other Stanford Designation” and type in Stanford Women’s Community Center. If you have any questions, please feel free to let us know! Donate to the WCC Stanford Womens Community Center Web Login Address Fire Truck House, First Floor 433 Santa Teresa Street Stanford, CA 94305 United States *New Stanford WCC ONLINE site Campus Map Contact Us Stanford WCC Facebook Stanford WCC Instagram Stanford WCC Youtube Channel Helpful Links Well-Being at Stanford View the Stanford non-discrimination policy Student Affairs supports accessibility Report a website problem Student Affairs The Women's Community Center is proud to be part of the Centers for Equity, Community, and Leadership (ECL) within Student Affairs, which educates students to make meaningful contributions as citizens of a complex world. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top