Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Web Developer Network Menu Search Log In About Us Meeting Notes Announcements Analytics Board Get Involved Register Chat Room Contribute The Framework Starting a Site Terms of Use Standards Guide Information for Site Users Framework Roadmap Changelog Domain Name Policy Documentation 5.0 Framework Documentation 4.1 Framework Documentation UNLcms Documentation Public Info Apps Recent Documentation Governance Board Quality Assurance QA Review Rubric Suggestion Box Blog Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Web Developer Network Welcome Dreamers Wanted Working on websites can be daunting and even lonely at times. We are here as a community to help each other with ideas, solutions, and feedback. Whether you are maintaining content or coding up a site, the Web Developer Network is here for you. You can contribute! Ways to Participate Monthly Meetings The Web Developer Network holds a monthly meeting that provides the opportunity for all university website stakeholders to get together, network, and learn about upcoming changes to the university Web Framework and CMS. The group also discusses upcoming web trends and share knowledge and best practices about maintaining websites. Meeting agendas are often mailed out a day before the meeting. We also encourage topic inclusions and presentation suggestions using the suggestion form. Stay Notified. Join Our Mailing List. WDN monthly meetings take place on the second Tuesday of every month. Governance Board meetings are on the first and third Thursdays. Upcoming Meeting Dates Governance Board The WDN Shared Governance Board administers and guides the development of the UNL Web Framework, Standards Guide and public information management systems in an environment of respect, collaboration, and outreach. Their goal: to improve user experience, solicit user feedback, and encourage good stewardship of all university websites. Board meetings are held on the first and third Thursday every month, at 2:30 p.m. on Zoom. University staff participation at these board meetings is welcome. Learn More About the Board Sub-committees There are also 3 different sub-committees each with a different focus that meets to discuss, solicit feedback, and form recommendations to the Shared Governance Board. These sub-committees include the UX (User Experience) Sub-committee, QA (Quality Assurance) Sub-committee, and the Public Information Applications User Group. Meetings are open to anyone who are interested or have questions and feedback. Learn More About These Sub-committees Code Contributions Our university's Web Framework is publicly available on GitHub. Improvements and new features are welcomed through submitted pull requests. If you have any questions about how to implement a feature or change, please hop in our chat room. If you are not familiar with Git, but still wish to contribute, the Framework documentation might be a good opportunity. You can add examples, fix errors, and improve content in our documentation. Contribute on Github Feature Requests If you do not have the time or resources to implement a feature yourself, please submit a feature request. You can also use the feature request form or the chat to let us know about bugs that you have discovered. We always welcome opportunities to improve the tools that we bring to you. Request a Feature Resources Recent Blog Articles WDN Community Makes Accessibility Final Four By Bob Crisler Login User Interface Updates By Ryan Dee Using DCF Classes to Develop for 5 in 4.1 By Aaron Coleman Preventing Google Analytics Spam using Views and Filters By Jian Huar Lock Moving Forward with UNLedu 5.0 By Bob Crisler Live Chat Join the chatroom Chat with other campus web developers and get your questions answered. Documentation UNLedu Web Framework Documentation Find useful code snippets for grid, styles, widgets, and more UNLcms Documentation View documentation on utilizing the Drupal content management system Framework Standards Guide Read up on standards guidelines for our web framework Changelog View recent web framework changes Roadmap See what changes we have in mind for future releases The Web Developer Network is coordinated by Digital Experience Group, a partnership of University Communication and Information Technology Services at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. The Web Developer Network is coordinated by Digital Experience Group, a partnership of University Communication and Information Technology Services at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1217 Q St. Lincoln, NE 68588 US Related Links UNLcms Content Management System Digital Experience Group University Communication Information Technology Services Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.