Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame We Are ND Menu About Stories Domer Diaries Subscribe Suggest a Story Search myND We Are ND ThinkND FaithND IrishCompass Search Search DeJorie Monroe '16 Alumna Pursues Passions from Fellowship to Foreign Service 2022 Mother's Day Postcards to Mom Each year, the Notre Dame Alumni Association distributes free postcards for students, faculty, and staff to write and send messages to the mother figures in their lives. This year, we asked five students to write and narrate their cards on camera. 2022 Mother's Day Sharing Our Mothers' Stories This Mother’s Day, the Notre Dame Alumni Association has compiled past We Are ND stories from mothers and mother figures in the Notre Dame community. Emily Rupchock '20EMNA Alumna Embraces Motherhood and Connection with Chosen Family Working with under-resourced children and families has brought Emily Rupchock EMNA ’20 a lot of satisfaction over the years, but that wasn’t the only outcome. Her work with these communities brought another beautiful — if unexpected — gift: a daughter. The Moguls of MOGL Dr. Jon Olansen A Gateway to the Moon Bob Kruse The '74 Duster Returns to ND Annie Johnson Taking Care of Students and South Bend Reed Gregory '21 & John Mahoney '21 A Sideline View to History Evelyn Huang A Med Student and Advocate Mandie Landry The First-Time Candidate Peter Flach (and Slater) The Sunglasses-Wearing Chihuahua Making Sick Kids Smile Ashley Cavuto Bursts of Inspiration Nick Nissen, M.D. '16 Advocating for Access and Empathy in Mental Health Care As a psychiatry resident, podcast host, ABC News medical correspondent, children's book author, and mental health advocate, Nick Nissen M.D. '16 is working to destigmatize mental health struggles and to teach emotional intelligence and empathy. Joan Mileski '79 Setting the Next Generation Up For Success As the first in her family to graduate college, Joan Mileski '79 now works to support today's first-generation students as a professor and head of the Department of Maritime Business Administration at Texas A&M-Galveston. Krystal Hardy Allen ’07 Educating Beyond the Classroom In 2017, former teacher and principal Krystal Hardy Allen ’07 founded K. Allen Consulting, an educational and management consulting firm that supports a variety of organizations in diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. Subscribe to We Are ND Sign up for a weekly email to receive the latest story from We Are ND. Subscribe Kelechi Ndukwe '02 Naval Commander Driven to Lead by Example Tia B. Paulette '18 J.D. An Advocate for the Innocent As a Notre Dame law student, Tia B. Paulette '18 J.D., resurrected a latent Innocence Project chapter and helped turn it into the Notre Dame Exoneration Justice Clinic, which seeks to correct the miscarriage of justice for the wrongfully convicted. Jessica Pedroza ’17 Working for Equity in Education Jessica Pedroza ’17, a 2021 Domer Dozen honoree, is working to increase equity in the U.S. education system through legislative action. Rene Bermea '12 Improving Lives in the Clinic and the Lab His sister's experience fighting cancer lead Dr. Rene Bermea '12 to a career in medicine. Now, the lung transplantation specialist not only treats patients, but continues to pursue research in an effort to understand and better treat interstitial lung disease. Maria Hinson Tobin '14 M.S. Empowering Women and Girls Around the World Through Partnership “Whether it’s an unjust food system or healthcare system inequalities or social determinants of health, I think partnership and policy are the best ways for us to achieve the scale of change that’s actually needed for it to be felt broadly,” Maria Hinson Tobin ’14 M.S. said. Zoe (Rote) Kourajian ’16 Teaching to Reflect the Experiences of All Students Domer Dozen honoree Zoe (Rote) Kourajian ’16 teaches her middle school history students history through a lens that reflects their own experiences. Lisa Herb '88 A Champion of a Generation of Afghan Women Lisa Herb '88 founded the Alliance for International Women's Rights to support women in developing countries. Until August 2021 when the country fell back under Taliban rule, AIWR focused its efforts in Afghanistan and is now working with other groups to help Afghan women leaders flee the country for their safety. Greg Bourke '82 M.A. Embracing a Marriage of Faith and Identity Sr. Corinne Florek '80 M.B.A. Investing for the Common Good Sr. Corinne Florek '80 M.B.A. is revolutionizing how women's religious communities invest for the common good. Tyler Greenberg ’19, Brett Segobiano ’20, & Chris Finke ’19 Maximizing the Potential of Creatives of all Abilities Tyler Greenberg ’19, Brett Segobiano ’20, and Chris Finke ’19 marry art and entrepreneurship to empower artists of all abilities through their apparel company, Jake Max. Stay Connected For regular updates on Domers doing good in the world, follow @WeAreNDprofiles on Twitter. Follow @WeAreNDprofiles Tony Karrat '67 “Using the Law to Help People” Claire Sloss '09 Combating Homelessness Through Communications and Service Claire Sloss '09 has made a career serving the people experiencing homelessness in Chicago. Will Maloney ’95 & Chad Sutcliffe ’95 Mentoring Young Leaders Through the Power of Hoops Engineering alums create lasting impact teaching children in Jamaica and Haiti self-esteem, leadership, and character at summer basketball camp. Alexandria Kristensen-Cabrera '16 Advocating for Health Care Equity and Improved Maternal Outcomes Alumna combines passions for health care and social justice as a dual medical and PhD student. Milton H. Jones Jr. '74 Striving to Make a ‘Better World’ Alum strives to make the world a better place as the first African American chair of the United Negro College Fund. Meg Scharle ’95 Turning Contemplation into Action to Improve Vaccine Access Alumna develops toolkit to help seniors and the underserved in her Portland community overcome barriers to access the COVID-19 vaccine. Jasmin (Simmons) Tow '11 Bridging Cultural Divides, Improving Educational Outcomes Alumna creates culturally responsive classrooms to meet the needs of students from every background. Rev. John Mennell '87 Answering the Call, Feeding the People Katie Broussard '04, '06 M.Ed Reaching Children Through Art and Faith Alumna reaches children through art as a Catholic children's book illustrator. View More About Stories Domer Diaries Subscribe Suggest a Story Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame We Are ND 100 Eck Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone 574-631-6000 ndalumni@nd.edu Accessibility Information