Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Research Centers and Programs Faculty and Scholarship Research Centers and Programs Columbia Law School’s research centers and programs reflect the breadth of our faculty’s expertise and the exceptional quality of their scholarship. Through their rigorous research, faculty experts explore foundational, emerging, and interdisciplinary areas of the law. In addition to convening academics, policymakers, judges, and business leaders from around the globe, centers and programs offer students valuable opportunities to collaborate with experienced scholars and researchers. Find a Center or Program Search by Name or Description Filter by Areas of Study All Areas of StudyConstitutional Law, Regulation, and Public PolicyCorporate, Business, and Transactional LawCriminal JusticeData AnalyticsEnvironment and EnergyFamily, Gender, and SexualityIntellectual Property and TechnologyInternational and Comparative LawLaw of the WorkplaceLeadershipLegal History Litigation and Dispute ResolutionNational Security and PrivacySocial Justice and Human Rights Center for Constitutional Governance The Center for Constitutional Governance (CCG) is a nonpartisan legal and policy organization devoted to the study of constitutional structure and authority. CCG invites academics, students, government officials, practitioners, and community members to engage with major constitutional and governance issues of the day, from health care to civil rights, immigration, financial regulation, and national security. Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Center for Contract and Economic Organization The Center for Contract and Economic Organization capitalizes on the synergies between the Law School’s experts in contracts, commercial transactions, and business organizations and scholars throughout Columbia University who study contract theory and the economics of information. Through scholarly collaboration, the center contributes to existing knowledge and sponsors a host of ongoing initiatives, including visiting fellowships, workshops, and conferences. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Center for Gender and Sexuality Law Columbia Law School established the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law as an incubator for bold new approaches to complex issues facing gender and sexual justice movements. The center is home to research projects and initiatives focused on gender, sexuality, reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, and gender identity and expression across law, policy, and professional practice. Students can supplement coursework with lectures, panel discussions, conferences, and guest speaker series on contemporary issues. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Center for Institutional and Social Change The Center for Institutional and Social Change facilitates collaboration between scholars, practitioners, and students striving to address structural inequality through institutional transformation. Participants use brainstorming, strategic analysis, and empirical and field research to develop new frameworks, strategies, and roles for effective institutional and social change. Areas of Study Leadership Litigation and Dispute Resolution Social Justice and Human Rights Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration The Center for International Commercial & Investment Arbitration furthers the teaching and study of international arbitration. Through research and collaborations with other like-minded institutions worldwide, the center develops effective methods of resolving international disputes and encouraging international commerce and exchange. The center also prepares students and young professionals interested in arbitration and dispute resolution for careers in the field. Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law International and Comparative Law Litigation and Dispute Resolution Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies The Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies examines how social structures and related identity categories, such as gender, race, and class, interact to create social inequality. Its interdisciplinary and innovative research projects and initiatives unite a diverse group of academics and advocates interested in developing effective solutions to institutional inequality. Areas of Study Family, Gender, and Sexuality Legal History Social Justice and Human Rights Center for Israeli Legal Studies The Center for Israeli Legal Studies brings together Israeli and U.S. scholars and practitioners to discuss noteworthy legal issues in Israeli society. The center sponsors lectures, seminars, and conferences; creates fellowship opportunities for LL.M. and J.S.D. students; and creates exchange opportunities for Law School students to pursue research or internships in Israel. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center for Japanese Legal Studies The Center for Japanese Legal Studies is the first and only center in the United States devoted exclusively to Japanese law. Bolstered by a premier private collection of Japanese law materials, the center facilitates understanding of the Japanese legal system through teaching and research. Through robust programs and events, course and speaker series, and faculty and student exchanges, the center promotes intellectual exchange between American and Japanese students and scholars. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center for Korean Legal Studies The Center for Korean Legal Studies supports research, education, and debate on a broad range of law and policy issues impacting the Korean Peninsula. The first of its kind in the United States, the center hosts programs, events, visiting scholars opportunities, and initiatives that engage leading practitioners and scholars. Areas of Study International and Comparative Law Center for Law and Economic Studies The Center for Law and Economic Studies’ basic mandate is to develop interdisciplinary research and teaching programs in order to shed new light on the “fundamental economic and legal problems of the modern industrial society.” Areas of Study Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page ›› Last page Last » Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.