Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Projects | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter Recent Projects ALAI Questionnaire 2018 ALAI Questionnaire 2017 Kernochan Center Initial Comments on the Copyright Office Study on the Moral Rights of Attribution and Integrity Kernochan Center Reply Comments on the Copyright Office Study on the Moral Rights of Attribution and Integrity Kernochan Center Initial Comments on the Copyright Office Study on the Revision of Section 512 Kernochan Center Reply Comments on the Copyright Office Study on the Revision of Section 512 Kernochan Center Comments Submitted in Response to Copyright Office NOI on Revising Section 1201 Jane Ginsburg: Follow-up Comments re Restatement of Copyright, Preliminary Draft No. 1 Jane Ginsburg: Comments to ALI Proposed Restatement of Copyright Draft Kernochan Center Comments Submitted in Response to Copyright Office NOI on Copyright Protection for Certain Visual Arts Kernochan Center Comments Submitted in Response to Copyright Office NOI on Mass Digitization Google Books and Fair Use: From Implausible to Inevitable? Published by the Media Institute, 10/19/15 Center hosts Annual Symposium on "Copyright Outside the Box" Impact of intellectual property regimes on the enjoyment of right to science and culture Survey of U.S. Law concerning remuneration rights, in connection with the 2015 international meeting of ALAI in Bonn. Survey of U.S. Law concerning moral rights, in connection with the 2014 international meeting of ALAI (Association Litteraire et Artistique Internationale) Comments submitted to the U.S. Copyright Office in response to its Notice of Inquiry on the Making Available Right, and participation in roundtable discussions hosted by the Copyright Office Comments submitted to the U.S. Copyright Office in response to its Notice of Inquiry on Orphan Works and Mass Digitization, and participation in roundtable discussions hosted by the Copyright Office Comments submitted to the U.S. Copyright Office in response to its Notice of Inquiry on a Resale Royalty, and participation in roundtable discussions hosted by the Copyright Office Hosted and participated in U.S. Copyright Office roundtable discussion on reengineering the functionof recording documents pertaining to copyright Comments submitted to the Department of Commerce's Internet Policy Tax Force on its Green Paper on Copyright Policy, Creativity and Innovation in the Digital Economy Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.