Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Symposium Schedule | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter Creation is Not Its Own Reward: Making Copyright Work for Authors and Performers October 10, 2014 Materials are available here The Kernochan Center’s 2014 Symposium looked at the ongoing review of the Copyright Act, with a focus on the concerns of professional authors, artists and performers. We considered what changes to law and practice would benefit authors and encourage creativity. 9:00-9:15 A.M. Welcome and Introductions: June M. Besek, Executive Director, Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts 9:15-10:05 A.M. Keynote Addresses T.J. Stiles Pulitzer-Prize and National Book Award-winning author of The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt Doug Wright Pulitzer-Prize winning playwright for "I Am My Own Wife" Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 10:25 A.M. - 12:00 P.M. Authors’ Perspectives: Part I Moderator: June M. Besek Rick Carnes Songwriter and President, Songwriters Guild of America Eugene Mopsik American Society of Media Photographers David Hajdu Author and Professor, Columbia Graduate School of Journalism David Lowery Musician and Lecturer, University of Georgia, Terry College of Business Lisa Shaftel Graphic Artist and National Advocacy Liaison, Graphic Artists Guild Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 1:00-2:00 P.M. Authors’ Perspectives: Part II Moderator: Pippa Loengard, Assistant Director, Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts Richard Masur Actor Eddie Schwartz President, Songwriters Association of Canada Sandra Aistars Chief Executive Officer, Copyright Alliance Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 2:00-3:10 P.M. Industry Perspectives Moderator: Bart Szewczyk, Kernochan Center Fellow, Columbia Law School Joseph Gratz Partner, Durie Tangri Scott Martin Executive VP, Intellectual Property and Associate General Counsel Paramount Pictures Christian Genetski General Counsel, Entertainment Software Association Jay Rosenthal Senior VP and General Counsel, National Music Publishers Association (NMPA) Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 3:30-4:25 P.M. Academic Perspectives Moderator: Jane C. Ginsburg, Professor, Columbia Law School Eva Subotnik Asst. Professor, St. John’s University Law School Molly van Houweling Professor of Law, Berkeley Law and Co-Director, Berkeley Center for Law & Technology Daniel Gervais Professor of Law, Vanderbilt Law School and Director, Vanderbilt Intellectual Property Program Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 4:25-5:15 P.M. Government Perspectives Moderator: Brad Greenberg, Kernochan Center Fellow, Columbia Law School Sy Damle Special Advisor, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Copyright Office Shira Perlmutter Chief Policy Officer and Director for International Affairs, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Closing Remarks Your browser doesn't support video. Please download the file: video/mp4 Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.