Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Admissions Future students Apply Cost of attendance Financial aid Request information Visit Academics Colleges, departments and schools Library Research Global programs Graduate programs Distance education Undergrad majors Students Info for students Academic support Schedule of classes University catalog Health and wellness Student organizations Safety Info for Students Faculty & staff Parents & families Alumni Business & industry Giving to ISU About Extension & outreach Information technology Employment Diversity and inclusion Arts and attractions Athletics Cyclone athletics Sports schedules Tickets Directions, parking, maps CyRide buses provide more than 7 million rides annually to ISU students and community members. Maps Interactive campus map Look up buildings Find parking lots View accessibility features Parking Parking division Parking lots Visitor parking CyRide The CyRide bus system serves the Iowa State campus and city of Ames. ISU students and children 5 and under ride free. Regular fare is $1.25, with reduced fare (60 cents) for seniors, K-12 students and those with disabilities. SafeRide ISU Students, visitors and others concerned about walking on campus (6 p.m. to 6 a.m.) can summon rides by calling 294-4444. A ride-requesting app is available for students and staff. Help Van Need a jump-start? Tools to change a flat? A ride to a service station for a can of gas? Call the Help Van at 294-4444. Directions from I-35 From I-35, take exit 111B, merging onto US-30 W toward Ames/Iowa State (3.4 miles) From US 30, take exit 146, merging right onto University Boulevard at the end of the exit ramp Drive north past Jack Trice Stadium and Hilton Coliseum to Lincoln Way Turn left (west) on Lincoln Way Continue on Lincoln Way through three stoplights (Beach Ave. Union Drive, Ash Ave., then turn right into the Memorial Union parking lot Des Moines airport Des Moines International Airport is 40 miles south of Ames. Airport transportation to Ames Executive Express shuttle Airport ground transportation Google driving directions Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2020 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information