Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Organizations, Regulations, & Courses ORC Computer Science Share Courses Undergraduate Courses For brief descriptions of courses and scheduled instructors, please consult the official Dartmouth Course Descriptions and Requirements published by the Office of the Registrar. For detailed information about the terms and times that courses will be offered, the most reliable source is the Timetables page on the Registrar's site. (Click on Subject Area(s), then search for COSC courses.) Course Dependency Graph The graph below provides a visual representation of the courses we offer and the prerequisite relationships between them. Click the image below to open an interactive version where each node is a clickable link to the corresponding ORC entry. Last updated Fall 2020. curriculum-dag-fa20.png COSC 94 and 99 COSC 94: Reading Course COSC 94 is an independent study of a certain subject and can be taken any term. It is a custom-designed, faculty-guided, independently operated, course in computer science - and its topic and nature can be drawn from the wide range of course topics and types you see in the curriculum. Examples include reading textbooks, research literature, and tutorial material; watching online lectures from other universities or programs; developing code; designing algorithms; analyzing data; and more. You need Instructor Permission to enroll for these courses. This is given by the Undergraduate Program Director. To get this permission, you need to follow the following steps: First, you need to identify an advisor who will guide and evaluate your independent study. This person must be a CS faculty member. This includes regular faculty members (tenure track / instructors) and adjunct faculty members. Approach the professor early; at least one or two terms in advance is recommended. Together with the faculty member you need to create a proposal. The proposal must describe the material being learned, and the planned approach. A typical proposal is 1.5-2 pages long comprising of- Course goals and objectives + a personal rationale you to pursue this independent study. Materials : Textbooks, Notes, Websites, Videos, etc. A Semi-detailed Schedule. For each of the 9-10 weeks, you should point to the material you will be studying. At the very least, the topic. Description of evaluation procedure : assignments/labs/projects, etc + when they will be due. The workload should be equivalent to a regular course. You need to submit the proposal to the Undergraduate Program Director, cc-ing your advisor. The advisor must confirm that they have approved the proposal and that they will indeed be supervising, and at the termination of the course, grading the student. COSC 99: Thesis Research COSC 99.01 and COSC 99.02 is individual research on a topic carried out with a thesis advisor. This is open only to COSC majors or COSC modified majors with CS as the primary part. COSC 99.01 and 99.02 constitute a two-course sequence and must be taken in two consecutive terms, either fall/winter or winter/spring, normally in the senior year. In order to receive credit for COSC 99.01 and 99.02, a written thesis must be approved by the thesis advisor. You need Instructor Permission to enroll for these courses. This is given by the Undergraduate Program Director. To get this permission, you need to follow the following steps: First, you need to identify a thesis advisor and ask them to commit to being your advisor. This person must be a CS faculty member. This includes regular faculty members (tenure track / instructors) and adjunct faculty members. Approach the professor early; at least one or two terms in advance is recommended. Along with your advisor you must draft a thesis proposal which should be 1-2 pages long. It should contain a tentative title, the proposed problem of research, and an outline of some approaches to tackle these problems. You need to submit the proposal to the Undergraduate Program Director, cc-ing your advisor. The advisor must confirm that they have approved the proposal and that they will indeed be supervising, and at the termination of the course, grading the student. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback