Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share HackDartmouth Draws 80 Students Seeking Tech Solutions Posted on April 20, 2022 by Harini Barath News subtitle The weekend coding competition focused on such subjects as health and clean tech. Image Image Computer science professor Xia Zhou, left, judges students competing in HackDartmouth on the Diversifi team. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Body The seventh edition of HackDartmouth, an annual coding competition, was held at the MacLean Engineering Sciences Center this past weekend. Around 80 students gathered to brainstorm ideas and create innovative technology solutions that address issues in a variety of sectors—health care, climate, education and more. The 24-hour event, themed “Hack on your wild side,” had five categories for participating programmers to choose from: health and recovery, empowerment, augmented reality/virtual reality, cultural revitalization and clean tech. “This is the first in-person hackathon we’ve had in three years,” says Katherine Lasonde ’23, director of HackDartmouth, a student-led program. The event was cancelled in 2020 and held virtually last year owing to COVID-19 concerns. The contest usually welcomes participants across the country, but, out of an abundance of caution, was limited to Dartmouth students this year. Prizes, worth more than $10,000 in all, ranged from smart speakers and tablets to swag boxes from sponsors. The health and recovery stream was the most competitive category, says Lasonde. “A lot of people ended up gravitating towards mental wellness because it’s such a pertinent issue at this current time, especially among college students,” she says. This was evidenced in the entries that placed first and second in this category. Sadbird, created by Matthew Timofeev ’25, Eric Lu ’25, Aneesh Patnaik ’25, and Rishav Chakravarty ’25, flags negative and emotionally confusing tweets that users can choose to avoid. Elizabeth Frey ’24, Russell Chai ’24, and Annie Qiu ’24 designed WellBuddies, a digital buddy that provides customized suggestions to encourage students to prioritize their well-being. Ziray Hao ’22, Vivek Hazari ’22, Daniel DiPietro ’22, and John McCambridge ’22 bagged the prize in clean tech for Canary, a mobile app that promotes socially responsible investing by assessing the carbon footprint of a user’s investment portfolio. Plant Buddy and Greenlight were awarded first and second place in the empowerment category. The former, developed by Sherry Liu ’22, Ashna Kumar ’24, Madeleine Bernardeau ’22, and Chavin Udomwongsa ’24, helps users care for their plants better. The latter, made by Steven Mendley ’24, Jackson Desmond ’24, Tucker Simpson ’24, and Michael Mauricio ’24 is an app for Apple iPhones that manages entry of guests into Greek spaces on campus. The prize-winning entry in the AR/VR category was RemembVR, a virtual reality experience that builds nostalgic timelines for users from their photos and audio playlists. It was built by Julian Wu ’22, Brandy Zhang ’22, and Macy Toppan ’22. Benedict Tedjokusumo ’23 created Why We Eat, an app that provides customized local dining options. The app won second prize in the cultural revitalization category. The top winner in that category was Diversifi, a web app built by Ravin Anderson ’24, Julian George ’24, Andrew Chen ’24, and Alphonso Bradham ’24, that introduces users to new music from other cultures, using playlists to gauge their musical tastes. Many participants did not have a background in computer science, Lasonde notes. She hopes to see a bigger turnout at next year’s event, tentatively scheduled on April 15-16, 2023. Image Teams competed in HackDartmouth VII as students created projects over a 24-hour period. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback