Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Admissions Future students Apply Cost of attendance Financial aid Request information Visit Academics Colleges, departments and schools Library Research Global programs Graduate programs Distance education Undergrad majors Students Info for students Academic support Schedule of classes University catalog Health and wellness Student organizations Safety Info for Students Faculty & staff Parents & families Alumni Business & industry Giving to ISU About Extension & outreach Information technology Employment Diversity and inclusion Arts and attractions Athletics Cyclone athletics Sports schedules Tickets Arts and attractions Fountain of the Four Seasons sculpture by Christian Petersen. Exhibits Calendar Anderson Sculpture Garden | contact South of Morrill Hall, free "Ginnever: Transforming Perspectives," through fall 2022 Brunnier Art Museum | contact Mondays and Tuesday: curriculum tours by appointment only; 10 a.m.- 4 p.m. Wednesday-Friday; 1 p.m.-4 p.m. Saturday-Sunday; closed on university holidays and during break, $8 suggested donation "Mythical Bounty," Glass sculptures by Amber Cowan, through May 15 "Studio to Contemporary Glass: 1960s to Today," through July 2022 Christian Petersen Art Museum | contact 10 a.m.- 4 p.m. Monday-Friday; 1 p.m.-4 p.m. Saturday-Sunday, closed on university holidays and during break, $8 suggested donation "Vibrant Matter," featuring works by Julie Chang, through July 22 "All the Evils... Christian Petersen and the Art of War," through July 22 Farm House Museum | contact Central campus, noon-4 p.m. Monday-Friday when ISU is in session, $8 suggested donation "Arts and Craftsman: Simplicity, Honesty, and Truth to Materials," through Oct. 2022 Gallery 181 | 515-294-7428 College of Design, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday, free Memorial Union | contact Memorial Union Art Gallery, 1568 Memorial Union, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday-Friday, 1-4 p.m. Sunday "Focus Grant Exhibit," the culmination of funded projects by students who demonstrate imagination, creativity, and development in the arts, through April 25. Parks Library | contact Special Collections and University Archives, 403 Parks Library, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Thursday (reading room is closed Fridays as of Oct. 11), free "A Home Away From Home: The George A. Jackson Black Cultural Center," an exhibition to recognize the 2020 50th Anniversary of the George A. Jackson Black Cultural Center Online exhibits: archives.lib.iastate.edu Throughout Parks Library "Art in Parks," features contemporary women artists, ongoing Reiman Gardens | contact 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. daily (Oct. 1-April 30), $11 (youth $6, free for members) "Lewis & Art," exhibition featuring large-scale mixed-media sculptures by artist Dale Lewis, through Oct. 9 Garden Room Gallery "Hygge Pix," photography by Linda Wendt, Winner of the 2021 Volunteer Photography Contest Hughes Conservatory "The Botanical Boudoir," through May 21 Textiles and Clothing Museum, Mary Alice Gallery | contact 1015 Morrill Hall, 11 a.m.-4 p.m., Monday-Friday, free "Fashion and Womanhood: A History of Agency, Oppression, and Intersectionality," opens April 2022 Reiman Gardens Campus attractions The Brunnier Art Museum Christian Petersen Art Museum Farm House Museum The Gentle Doctor sculpture Grant Wood murals Hilton Coliseum Iowa State Center Iowa State University Research Park Jack Trice Stadium Reiman Gardens Stanton Memorial Carillon Veenker Memorial Golf Course C6 Virtual Reality Applications Center Highlights Best public rose garden Iowa State's Reiman Gardens has been named the best public rose garden in the U.S. Most beautiful campus Iowa State's campus includes over 2,500 public works of art and was rated as one of America's 25 most beautiful in the book, The Campus as a Work of Art. The Stanton Memorial Carillon The 10-bell carillon chime installed in the Campanile in 1899 was the first scientifically tuned bell chime outside of England; the carillon has 50 bells today. Building of the 20th Century Iowa State's Stephens Auditorium was named Iowa's "Building of the 20th Century" by the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Iowa Chapter. Most Grant Wood murals Iowa State has the largest Grant Wood murals in the nation, including two WPA projects located in Parks Library -- "Breaking the Sod" and "When Tillage Begins, Other Arts Follow." Seamless curtain The main stage curtain in Stephens Auditorium is seamless, made entirely of silk, measures 85 by 35 feet and weighs 3,000 pounds. It was woven in Kyoto, Japan, on the world's largest continuous loom. Accredited museum The University Museums at Iowa State is one of only 10 percent of museums in the nation to be accredited by the American Association of Museums. Medallion site Iowa State's central campus was one of only three university campuses to make the American Society of Landscape Architect's 1999 centennial listing of "Medallion Sites." Most Christian Petersen sculptures Iowa State holds the nation's largest campus public collection of sculptures by Christian Petersen, who was artist-in-residence from 1934 to 1955. University Museums' Collection You can take a virtual look at the University Museums’ Collection of over 30,000 objects Digital Art on Campus project. Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2020 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information