Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials For Students Student-Curated Exhibits at Yale Library in the Sterling Memorial Library Exhibition Corridor Learn how to present your research using the unique narrative form of an exhibit. The library’s exhibit staff will assist you to choose, describe, sequence, and arrange objects from the library’s diverse collections. Our primary student-curated exhibit opportunities are: Student Research at Yale Library Open to Yale College Class of ’23 and ’24, graduate and professional students. Senior Exhibit Fellowship at Yale Library Open to Yale College Class of ’23. Student Research at Yale Library - Proposal deadline has passed (February 14, 2022) Through this opportunity two students are selected to curate two exhibit cases each, based on a completed paper or research project, using materials from the Yale Libraries. The selected students will learn how to transform their completed paper or research project into a physical exhibit utilizing production tools, templates, technical expertise, and guidance from Yale Library’s exhibit professionals. The majority of the curatorial work occurs in the spring semester with an exhibition opening the following fall. Exhibit staff coordinate schedules, deadlines, and management of collections materials. Proposal submission: Proposal submissions are currently closed. Eligibility: Yale College Class of ’23 and ’24, graduate and professional students. Timeline: Proposals due: February 14, 2022 Selected students notified February 21, 2022 Exhibition development and production: March – May 2022 Opening reception and exhibit tour: October 2022 Exhibition on view: October 2022 through May 2023 If you are considering this opportunity: Review the guide for submitting proposals for the Student Research at YUL exhibit and production deadlines. Select a librarian or faculty member who has reviewed the Exhibit Advisor responsibilities and has agreed to work with you to review your item selection and final exhibit text. If you don’t already have a faculty member or librarian you are currently working with, the exhibit committee can help you connect with one. To learn more about this opportunity, visit the past exhibit Web page. Listen to past Student Research at YUL curators: Senior Exhibit Fellowship at Yale Library - Proposal deadline has passed (March 7, 2022) Yale Library is introducing a new fellowship beginning with the Class of 2023, designed to provide one rising senior with training in curatorial skills and culminating in the production of a library exhibition based on the student’s senior essay topic using materials from the Yale Library collections. One Yale College junior will be selected to receive library funding, mentoring, and exhibit production support over the course of nine months to research, create and curate a professional-quality exhibit opening in spring of their senior year. The selected student will be awarded a $4,200 stipend to subsidize a five-week summer research fellowship to be completed the summer between their junior and senior years. This research, which must be completed on Yale campus using YUL collections, will become the foundation for the content of the exhibit. Fellowship duration is from Summer 2022 (five-week research fellowship) through Spring 2023 (senior year research and production). This opportunity is perfect for students who have experience researching with primary source materials, are curious about the curatorial process, enjoy working collaboratively, and whose senior essay subject can be strongly represented by physical objects from the YUL collections. Proposal submission: Proposal submissions are currently closed. Eligibility: Yale College Class of ’23. Timeline: Proposals due: March 7, 2022 Selected students notified April 25, 2022 Summer internship: Curator selects five weeks between June and September Exhibition development and production: September – April of senior year Opening reception: April 2023. On view: May – October 2023 If you are considering this opportunity: Review fellowship recipient roles and responsibilites, as well as deadlines and workflows. Discuss the opportunity with a Faculty Advisor and a Librarian Exhibit Advisor. Your selected advisors must agree to work with and advise you throughout the year-long project. Listen to past Senior Exhibit curators: If you are just getting started... Learning how to do research in the collections is the first step toward any exhibit opportunity. Start by getting to know your Personal Librarian or subject specialist, as well as archivists and collection specialists. Explore and discover the collections at Archives at Yale. Get ideas by looking at previous years' exhibits via the SML Exhibits LibGuide. Learn about opportunities to create online exhibits at Yale University Library. Send questions to kerri.sancomb@yale.edu. ‹ SML Exhibition Committee up For Faculty › Printer-friendly version PDF version Top SML Exhibition Committee For Students For Faculty For Library Staff Sterling Memorial Library Exhibit Spaces Forms SML Exhibition Committee Membership Information Sessions Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility