Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Courses Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Share Lovelace Research Program About This program provides funding to support undergraduate students in conducting research with a computer-science faculty advisor. The Lovelace Scholars funded by this program will be paid a stipend of $1200 and are expected to dedicate about 10 hours/week to research during the academic term. The funding may be renewed for a second term upon mutual agreement between the student and advisor. Lovelace Scholars also have the opportunity to apply for up to $500 in funds for any equipment, supplies, or travel necessary for the research project. Who is eligible? Any Dartmouth undergraduate student who has completed at least two terms at Dartmouth, does not have other research funding (e.g., from UGAR), is not receiving credit for the research (e.g., senior thesis CS99), and has identified a CS professor as advisor for a research project. Any professor affiliated with the Department of Computer Science (including adjuncts, as shown here) is eligible to serve as an advisor. No prior research experience is required! What projects are possible? Students are encouraged to contact CS faculty to inquire about possible projects – faculty usually have new or ongoing projects that are suitable for undergraduate students, and many are also open to students proposing their own project. A starting place to look for opportunities includes reviewing the Faculty Research Areas and Research Groups & Labs pages, both on the department's website. In addition, UGAR lists some CS projects and tips for finding a faculty advisor. Remote work is possible for many projects, depending on the nature of the project and current College guidelines for undergraduate research; students should discuss work arrangements with their proposed advisor. Expectations Students are expected to dedicate about 10 hours/week to research during the academic term.> At the end of their final term as a Lovelace Scholar, students are expected to present their work in a poster presentation at the department's Technigala (held every term) or at the annual Karen Wetterhahn Science Symposium (held at the end of Spring term). How to apply Applications are now open for Spring term 2022. Once you have found a faculty research mentor and agreed on a research project, please fill out this Google Form. Deadline The deadline for the applications for Spring 2022 is on March 4 (Friday) at 6pm ET. The decision will be made by March 15 (Tuesday). Contact For questions about this program, please contact the current CS prizes and fellowships committee: Tim Pierson, Hsien-Chih Chang, and Bo Zhu. Acknowledgements The Department of Computer Science is grateful to an anonymous donor for the funding that enabled this program. The department named this program in honor of Ada Lovelace, considered by many to be the world's first programmer. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback