Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs Courses Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Share Declaring your CS Major/Minor How to declare a Computer Science major, a modified major involving Computer Science, a Computer Science minor, or a Digital Arts minor You need to list courses in specific terms. The courses you list should be all those for the major and minor—courses you have taken, courses you are currently taking, and courses that you will take in the future—and only the courses for the major or minor (we don't need to see Writing 5, for example). Every course you list must be listed in the current ORC or have been listed in the ORC at the time you took it. (Students have been known to list nonexistent courses.) Make sure that you list courses in the correct terms. For courses you have taken, you can look up when you took them. For courses that you will take in the future, consult the Upcoming Class Schedule page on the Computer Science website for our most complete schedule. If you are listing courses for terms after those listed on that page, take the last year of the schedule and project it forward one year; it will probably be around 80% correct. The courses you choose must conform to the requirements for the major, modified major, or minor as laid out in the ORC. You may use certain courses in Mathematics as one elective in the standard Computer Science major, but only with the permission of the Computer Science Undergraduate Program Director. For a modified major involving Computer Science, all courses in the Computer Science side must be listed as COSC courses. For a Computer Science minor, all courses must be listed as COSC courses. Check the course prerequisites in the ORC for each course you include. Make sure that either you take the course prerequisites before taking the course, or that you obtain permission from the course instructor in advance to waive a prerequisite. Although the Registrar does not require you to include the prerequisites for the major, modified major, or minor in the list of courses, we ask that you include these prerequisites in the list. You must also include your culminating experience in the list. The culminating experience is two consecutive terms in your senior year of COSC 98.01 and COSC 98.02 or of COSC 99.01 and COSC 99.02. There are three modified majors involving Computer Science that are prespecified in the ORC: Computer Science modified with Engineering Sciences Computer Science modified with Digital Arts Engineering Sciences modified with Computer Science For these three modified majors, you do not need to supply a rationale. For all other modified majors, regardless of whether Computer Science is the primary part or the secondary part, and regardless of what the other department requires, you must provide a rationale that discusses the reason for your modified major and discusses how each of the major courses—in both the primary and secondary parts—fits into the overall plan. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback