Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs Courses Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Share Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities There are several avenues for requesting funding/sponsorship for official College-related activities. Funding through the CS Department Research funding Our Lovelace Research Program provides funding to support undergraduate students in conducting research with a computer-science faculty advisor. Travel/event funding We also occasionally sponsor travel or campus events. Students should send an email to the Department Chair, Professor Balkcom: Devin.Balkcom@dartmouth.edu, with a cc to the Department Administrator, Susan Perry Cable: Susan.Perry.Cable@dartmouth.edu. The email should include a description of the event, estimated budget, a brief explanation as to how the sponsorship will be beneficial to you as a Dartmouth student, and the source of any other funds available. Approved expenses will be reimbursed once the trip or event is complete. Original receipts are required for all reimbursable expenditures. Our office is happy to help you with accessing the reimbursement form and submitting it to the appropriate Finance Center. Susan Perry Cable should be listed as the approver. For the events that the department provides full or partial funding, please send a brief report after the event that states, for each part of the event, what it is and how many attended (number of undergrads, grads, and others). Other funding resources at Dartmouth Beyond sponsorship by the CS department, there are various College-wide funding opportunities for undergraduates. Please see the the following pages at the UGAR office for a list of available options: Dartmouth Funding Conference Travel Awards External funding opportunities There are also many external funding opportunities available to Dartmouth students. Dartboard and UGAR both maintain lists of external funding opportunities. Here is just a small sampling of additional opportunities: Bold.org, a student scholarship platform, offers $1,000 scholarships for male or female African-American students who are current or aspiring entrepreneurs. The African-American Entrepreneurs Grants aim to help close the funding gap for African-American entrepreneurs (current or aspiring). Students in any undergraduate or graduate field are welcome to apply for the award. Students don't need to have already started a business to apply. WiseGeek Mental Health Wellbeing Scholarship is a $500 scholarship for college students who have experienced challenges with mental health or had those close to them who have. WiseGeek Recent Immigrants Scholarship is a $500 scholarship for students who have immigrated to the United States on or after January 1, 2010. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback