Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search 2021 Symposium: NFTs: Future or Fad? | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter NFTS: Future or Fad? Nov 19, 2021 9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Online Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) are a point of confusion and controversy in the contemporary art world. Beeple's NFT “Everydays – The First 5000 Days” sold for $69 million at Christie's this March, but many people struggle even to define the term. Lawyers, creators and investors are navigating smart contracts, negotiating additional terms and wondering what the future holds. The Kernochan Center Symposium, "NFTs: Future or Fad?" will serve as a guide to this growing, creative, and potentially lucrative, market, and will discuss what role copyright can play in protecting these assets. Our first panel will provide an overview of NFTs and will look at how current IP law is meeting - and being challenged by - this new avenue of commerce. We'll also discuss whether NFTs have the staying power to propel long-term legal change. The symposium's second half will focus on the visual arts and will discuss the unique issues NFTs pose for artists and their attorneys. Please join us as we explore the legal complexities of NFTs. 9:00-9:15 Welcome remarks 9:15- 9:45 Keynote – Introduction to NFTs Stuart D. Levi, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP 9:45 – 11:00 Session I: The Intersection of NFTs and Copyright Brian Frye, Spears-Gilbert Associate Professor of Law, Rosenberg College of Law, University of Kentucky Andres Guadamuz, Senior Lecturer in Intellectual Property Law (Law), School of Law, Politics and Sociology, University of Sussex Sean Sullivan, Davis Wright Tremaine Adrian Perry, Covington & Burling LLP 11:15-11:45 Keynote - NFTs and the Art Market Kevin McCoy, Associate Professor of Art and Art Education, NYU 11:45-1:00 Session II – NFTs and the Art Market Megan Noh, Pryor Cashman LLP Sarah Odenkirk, Cowan, DeBaets, Abrahams & Sheppard LLP Yayoi Shionoiri, Executive Director for the Chris Burden Estate and the Nancy Rubins Studio Readings NFTs & the Death of Art — Brian Frye From the Artist’s Contract to the Blockchain Ledger: New Forms of Artists’ Funding Using NFTs, Fractional Equity, and Resale Royalties — Lauren van Haaften-Schick, Amy Whitaker What NFTs Mean for Contemporary Art — Seth Price, Michelle Kuo How Are NFTs Changing the Art World? — Paulina Okunytė NFTs: Legal Risks from “Minting” Art and Collectibles on Blockchain — Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, LLP Why Did Someone Pay $560,000 for a Picture of My Column? — Kevin Roose NFTs and the Definition of Art — Shinobi The Need for Insurance Options to Protect NFT Owners — Richard Giller NFTs: Key U.S. Legal Considerations for an Emerging Asset Class — An P. Doan, Mark W. Rasmussen, Courtney Lyons Snyder, Joshua B. Sterling, D. Grayson Yeargin Are Nonfungible Tokens Securities? — Joseph Hall Please note that the CLE verification format for this event has changed. Attendance will be verified using Zoom polls, so no form is required. We apologize for any confusion. Information Regarding New York CLE Credits: Columbia Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education (CLE) Board as an Accredited Provider of CLE programs. Under New York State CLE regulations, this live simultaneous transmission transitional and non-transitional CLE Program will provide 3.5 hours of New York CLE credit in Areas of Professional Practice. This CLE credit is awarded to New York attorneys for full attendance of the Program. Attendance is determined by an attorney's completion of polls during the live webinar. Attorneys also should submit their completed Evaluation Form, provided by the program organizers. Please note the NYS Certificates of Attendance will be sent to the email address as it appears in the register unless otherwise noted there. Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.