Inside Iowa State for faculty and staff May 26, 2022 Inside news 'Roll out the cardinal carpet' as orientation returns in full Student orientation is returning to its usual form this year for the first time since 2019, offering Cyclones-to-be an opportunity for a two-day in-person introduction to Iowa State. Leaders to propose strategic plans, building project to regents An Iowa State nine-year strategic plan, 30-year strategic facilities plan and proposal for a new engineering building on the west side of campus are on the agenda when the state Board of Regents meets May 31-June 2. Welcome Carl Wells is in his second week as director of equal opportunity and Title IX coordinator. He joins the university from a 20+ year career at the University of South Carolina, Columbia. Summer projects on (or near) your corner Inside offers a quick look at some campus road and building projects happening -- or wrapping up -- this summer. Senior VP Cain will retire this fall The operations and finance division leader's 42-year career included stops at the state auditor's office, state Board of Regents and Iowa State. A national search will be announced in a few weeks. Support grows for responding to student well-being needs Faculty and staff have a new resource for helping the growing number of students struggling with well-being issues, one of a variety of training opportunities this summer focused on identifying and addressing mental health and wellness concerns. Training available as New Quizzes set to launch in Canvas Starting next week, all instructors will have access to New Quizzes, the updated quiz engine in Canvas. Numerous training and learning opportunities are available this summer for those ready to try it out. Changes ahead for sharing COVID-19 info, data Over the summer, Iowa State's public health team will implement a series of changes related to COVID-19 information and resources for the campus community. View Inside Iowa State Announcements The following announcements were added this week: COVID-19: By the numbers May 30 is university holiday WorkFlex application window opens June 6 for fall Ames Lab innovation is focus of ISU's state fair exhibit Flags temporarily removed from central campus pole Roundtable assists employees who supervise volunteers COACHE faculty survey data available online Creamery adds ice cream sandwiches Extension, Iowa Public Radio collaborate on gardening podcast College Creek cleanup is June 18 New name: Military-Affiliated Student Center June 16 extension retirement workshop is free for ISU employees Paid mentors needed for 4-H Career Pathways Academy View all announcements Around campus Ames Lab celebrates 75 years of materials and energy solutions An integral part of Iowa State's legacy of science, engineering and innovation, Ames Laboratory celebrates 75 years in 2022. The national laboratory is shaping its future much like it shaped its past: by being first, forging new ground and using science to meet national and global challenges. (At an anniversary picnic last week, lab employees celebrated with their own ice cream, "Materials Masterpiece.") Taxes can tip the scale for startups near state lines A study led by University Professor of economics Peter Orazem found that notably different state tax rates affect where new businesses set up shop near state lines. Property tax rates have the greatest adverse effect since businesses pay property taxes even if they're not generating revenue. Culturally tailored dietary education proves promising A multi-state study involving an ISU researcher and Iowa families found kids with Mexican roots consumed fewer sugary beverages, french fries and fast food and ate more vegetables after participating in a six-week, culturally tailored education program with their families. Appointments Caroline Hayes, Lynn Gleason Professor of Interdisciplinary Engineering and chair of the mechanical engineering department, reappointed to a five-year term as chair, effective July 1 Dr. Suzanne Millman, professor of veterinary diagnostics and production animal medicine and biomedical sciences, as the Scott and Nancy Armbrust Professor in Veterinary Medicine Sarah Francis, associate professor of food science and human nutrition, as the Jane Armstrong Endowed Chair of Food Science and Human Nutrition Open houses and receptions Next week Celebration of life and reception, Dennis Peterson, past director of international students and scholars, May 29 (2 p.m. Garden Room, Reiman Gardens) Retirement, Lynn Laws, Agriculture Experiment Station administration, May 31 (1-2:30 p.m., 142 Curtiss), RSVP requested Upcoming Carnival-themed open house, 50th anniversary of Environmental Health & Safety, June 10 (1-3 p.m., EH&S Services Building) Retirement, Lisa Eslinger, ISU Foundation administration, June 22 (3:30-5 p.m., MU Campanile Room), post well wishes to her Kudoboard, retiring July 1 Retirement, Sheri Alcott, ISU Foundation donor compliance services, July 1 (no public event), post well wishes to her Kudoboard Employees, their colleagues or supervisors are invited to submit retirements and departures to inside@iastate.edu. University human resources doesn't provide them for publication. Arts and events Return to in-person events brings summer visitors Students, faculty and staff will again share campus this summer with thousands of visitors attending camps, conferences, competitions and other gatherings. Here's a list of who's coming. Recently deceased retirees, spouses, remembered in ceremony The ISU Retirees Association will host an online Memorial Day ceremony Monday, May 30 (9 a.m. CST, via Zoom). The event honors all ISU retirees and spouses or partners who have died since the previous Memorial Day ceremony. The names of deceased individuals will be read, and then family and friends will have an opportunity to say a few words. View events calendar Previous Inside coverage Inside Iowa State editions Inside Update archive Board of Regents meeting summaries Faculty Senate, P&S Council meeting summaries About us Inside Update is published Thursday mornings by Strategic Relations and Communications. Questions may be directed to 515-294-7065. Visit our website Send your news ‌