Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Bass Library Library Website Location Physical Location is 110 Wall Street Mail to Yale University - Bass Library c/o Access Services 344 Winchester Avenue (Docks 7/8) New Haven, CT 06511-1918 askyalelibrary@yale.edu 203-432-1874 The newly renovated Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Library is the starting point for undergraduate research support and library instruction as well as a popular student workspace. Through its staff, services, and a print collection of 61,000 volumes, Bass Library supports the Yale College curriculum across all subject areas. Bass Library staff work with faculty and other Yale Library staff to introduce students to the full range of Yale University Library collections, resources, and services. Originally called Cross-Campus Library, Bass Library is adjacent and connected to Sterling Memorial Library via the Wright Reading Room below Sterling Library’s Gothic Nave. What's Available: Outdoor Space Printer Public Computer Natural Light Monitor/Projector Individual Tables Large Tables Scanner Tech/Media Equipment Loans Individual Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Chalk Board/White Board Coffee/Snacks Nearby ATM Machine Color Printer Eli Express Delivery Location Electrical Outlets Couches Conversation Allowed Hours Location Phone Email Media Equipment Checkout Circulation Desk 203-432-1874 Technology Troubleshooting Office Office closed—call for drop off 203-432-5242 Accessibility The building is wheelchair-accessible. An outside elevator (located in the pavilion entrance to the Thain Family Cafe and the Bass Library) will take the reader directly to the Bass Library. To get to the Sterling Memorial Library from the Bass Library, readers with wheelchairs should take the elevator one level up to the tunnel connecting Bass Library and Sterling Memorial Library. Once through the tunnel, in the Wright Reading Room, turn left to the elevator and proceed up to the main level and the Sterling Memorial Library nave. Classrooms are available on a scheduled basis for persons with reading assistants. All individual study rooms are wheelchair-accessible and sound-proof for persons requiring space to work with reading assistants, play audiotapes, take oral examinations, etc. Access A valid Yale ID with swipe access is required for entry after 6 pm. See updates and visitor requirements at bit.ly/YaleLibraryCovid19. Directions From the New Haven Green or Phelps Gate on Old Campus, take College Street north to Elm Street. Make a left onto Elm Street. Go past Hopper College and Berkeley College (on your right). At High Street, turn right and follow the cement pathway. Sterling Memorial Library will be to the left; and the Women's Table sculpture on your right. Turn right and walk down the stairs. Enter the Bass Library from the pavilion on your left. Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility