Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Giving | Columbia Law School Giving Make a Gift Home The Annual Fund Reunion Giving Bequests and Planned Giving Naming Opportunities and Leadership Gifts Recognition Societies Your Impact How to Give Annual Report 2018 Class Gift FAQs Contact Us « Go back to the Alumni homepage Giving to Columbia Law School Much of what we do as a community begins with you—our alumni and friends. Your support touches every part of our students’ Columbia Law School experience. Your gifts have helped to fund faculty hiring and research, curricular development and engagement, and student recruitment and support. If you need further assistance, please contact the Development team at 212-854-2680. Click here for important 2019 tax information. Make a Gift The Annual Fund Gifts to the Annual Fund enable the dean to address immediate, high-priority needs and act on key opportunities as they arise. Learn more. Reunion Giving Your reunion year is an excellent time to make a special gift or pledge. All gifts received by June 30 count toward class totals and participation. Learn more. Bequests and Planned Giving Many alumni choose to create an enduring legacy of support by including the Law School in a bequest or planned gift. Learn more. Naming Opportunities Endowment gifts for specific scholarships or faculty positions can be named and will provide significant benefits for years to come. Learn more. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - “The greatness of Columbia is known by the whole world. It is an internationally renowned university. To continue to be, it requires financial support from those who received their education here.” —Gerry Lenfest ’58 Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.