Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Symposium 2018: Owning Personality: The Expanding Right of Publicity | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter This year’s Kernochan Center symposium focused on the right of publicity. This right has a complex history, and the patchwork of state laws currently in place do not provide clarity. In addition, many states which have had no such right, or a limited right, are now contemplating more extensive legislation in this area. Our full-day conference looked not only at the historical contours of the right of publicity, but also at its normative goals. Panels focused on how such a right is best crafted, including what uses should be exempted from its scope, and delved into other areas of the law implicated by publicity and privacy statutes. To read our Related Materials, please go here. Information Regarding New York CLE Credits: Columbia Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education (CLE) Board as an Accredited Provider of CLE programs. Under New York State CLE regulations, this live transitional and non-transitional CLE Program will provide 7 credit hours that can be applied toward the Areas of Professional Practice requirement. This CLE credit is awarded only to New York attorneys for full attendance of the Program in its entirety. Attorneys attending only part of the program are not eligible for partial credit. Attendance is determined by an attorney's sign-in and sign-out, as shown in the Conference registers. On final sign-out, attorneys should also submit their completed Evaluation Form, provided at the Conference. Please note the NYS Certificates of Attendance will be sent to the email address as it appears in the register unless otherwise noted there. Please see the bottom of the page for our Financial Hardship Policy. 9:00-9:15 Welcome 9:15- 10:45 Session I: Keynote and Commentary Keynote: Jennifer Rothman Professor of Law and Joseph Scott Fellow, Loyola Law School Commentary: Stacey Dogan Professor of Law, BU School of Law 10:45-11:00 Break 11:00-12:30 Session II: Term, Breadth and Waivability Moderator: June Besek, Esq. Executive Director, Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts Panel: Mark Roesler, Esq. CEO, CMG Worldwide Jeremy Sheff Professor of Law and Director, Intellectual Property Law Center, St. John’s University Mark McKenna John P. Murphy Foundation Professor of Law, Notre Dame University Law School Ben Sheffner, Esq. MPAA, Senior Vice President & Associate General Counsel for Copyright & Legal Affairs Sarah Howes, Esq. Director and Counsel, Government Affairs and Public Policy at SAG-AFTRA 12:30-1:30 Lunch (Provided) 1:30-3:00 Session III: Exemptions, Limitations and Territoriality Moderator: Pippa Loengard, Esq. Deputy Director, Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts Panel: Jessica Silbey Professor of Law and Co-Director, Center for Law, Innovation and Creativity, Northeastern University School of Law David G. Post I. Herman Stern Professor of Law, Beasley School of Law, Temple University (Ret.) Frederick Sperling, Esq. Partner, Schiff Hardin LLP Patrick Kabat, Esq. Director, First Amendment, Media, & Entertainment-Law Practicum, Cleveland-Marshall College of Law 3:00-3:15 Break 3:15-4:45 Session IV: Overlap with Other Areas of Law Moderator: Jane Ginsburg, Faculty Director, Kernochan Center and Morton Janklow Professor of Literary and Artistic Property Panel: Cynthia Arato, Esq. Partner, Shapiro Arato LLP Danielle Citron Morton & Sophia Macht Professor of Law, University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law Barton Beebe John M. Desmarais Professor of Intellectual Property Law, NYU Mitchell Gans Rivkin Radler Distinguished Professor of Law, Hofstra Law School Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.