Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Admissions More in this Section Explore Admissions: Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions The benefits of a legal education from Columbia Law School are endless: exceptional training from world-class faculty, access to a wide-ranging and progressive curriculum, hands-on legal experience, unrivaled career opportunities, and more, all set against the dynamic backdrop of New York City. Our students are highly diverse in background and experience, adding unique and expansive dimensions to our community’s social and intellectual life. They are engaged global citizens, bold and inquisitive thinkers, and relentlessly supportive peers—and they are dedicated to making an impact as leaders in the law and civic life. Why Columbia Our commitment to excellence extends far beyond the classroom. Learn more about what makes Columbia Law School the right fit for highly accomplished applicants. Learn more J.D. Admissions Become part of a remarkable community of aspiring lawyers preparing to lead the world forward. Learn More LL.M. Admissions Elevate your career to new heights in just one year with this fully customizable program. Learn More Executive LL.M. Admissions Join the ranks of tomorrow’s global business lawyers with this accelerated six-month training program. Learn More J.S.D. Admissions Leverage the Law School’s extensive support and resources to jump-start your career in legal academia. Learn More Graduation J.D., LL.M., J.S.D., and Executive LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Antony J. Blinken ’88, U.S. Secretary of State, delivering the keynote address during the online graduation ceremony on April 29, 2021. Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video Inside 1L Year With the Class of 2024 Making friends, handling the workload, navigating career paths and the subway: Four members of the Class of 2024 talk about their first-year experience so far. Students Video A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.