How to Make Changes to Worker Locator Data | Emergency Contact | Export List | Login First Name: Last Name: Supervisor Name: Job Family Group: Select All Job Family Group Academic Faculty Administrative Faculty Classified Classified (Hourly) Postdoctoral Scholar Resident Start Over | Search Look Up Workers The online locator is a searchable tool of UNLV worker's primary position attributes within the Workday Job Family Groups: Academic Faculty, Administrative Faculty, Classified Staff, Post-doctoral Scholars and Residents. The supervisor detail and the job detail is extracted from Workday's Human Capital Management module at the end of each business day. The directory detail, shared in this online locator, is integrated into Workday from the UNLV Archibus Space Planning tools (each worker's workspace, each worker's primary work phone, and each worker's mailstop). Search Instruction: To search for a UNLV Worker, use the control panel to the left. Enter specific or "wildcard" information as search criteria and click on the "Search" link. If you are looking for the additional information about the worker, click on the worker's name on the search result, the worker detail information will appear below the control panel. If you wish to clear previous information, click on the "Start Over" link. Corrections to the information associated with each employee can be accomplished in one of the following manners: Departments can submit a title change through this email address titlechg@unlv.edu and attaching an updated PDQ or submitting in Workday an Edit Position or Edit Position Restrictions business process and also attaching an updated PDQ. Changes to Worker Workspace, Worker Primary Work Phone, Worker Mailstop must be completed by contacting your departments Administrative Assistant, authorized Archibus user or contact the Office of Space Management at (702)895-0484. Changes to personal data; Name (may require additional “proof” to be submitted to HR), Email, Phone and Address (home / personal only) must be completed in Workday. Please log in to Workday: https://www.unlv.edu/workday