Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Library Website Location 121 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 beinecke.library@yale.edu 203-432-2972 The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library is one of the world's largest buildings devoted entirely to rare books and manuscripts and is Yale's principal repository for literary archives, early manuscripts, and rare books. The Beinecke Library's robust collections are used to create new scholarship by researchers from around the world. What's Available: Public Computer Natural Light Individual Tables Large Tables Tech/Media Equipment Loans Chalk Board/White Board Cell Phone Service Electrical Outlets Couches Hours Accessibility There is an accessible entrance on the side of the building facing Wall Street. This entrance is normally locked but is in sight view of the front desk attendant. The elevator is located near the main desk. Research areas and public exhibition spaces are accessible to the handicapped via elevator. Accessible men's and women's bathrooms are located on the bottom floor. Researchers requiring special accommodations are encouraged to email beinecke.library@yale.edu prior to their visit. Metered parking for the handicapped is available on High St. between Wall St. and Grove St. Access The Beinecke exhibition hall is open to members of the public in compliance with University requirements for vaccination.The reading room is open to non-Yale researchers who have completed the University vaccination attestation process in advance of their visit. See updates and requirements for visitors at bit.ly/YaleLibraryCovid19. Directions The Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library is located in the Beinecke Plaza or Hewitt Quadrangle. To enter the building, use the revolving door entrance across from Woolsey Hall. Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility