Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Lewis Walpole Library Library Website Location 154 Main Street Farmington, CT 06032 walpole@yale.edu 860-677-2140 The Lewis Walpole Library is an internationally recognized research collection in the field of British eighteenth-century studies. Its unrivaled collection of Walpoliana includes half the traceable volumes from Horace Walpole's famous library at Strawberry Hill and many letters and other manuscripts by him. The Library's book and manuscript collections, numbering over 32,000 volumes, cover all aspects of eighteenth-century British culture. The Library is also home to the largest and finest collection of eighteenth-century British graphic art outside the British Museum; its 35,000 satirical prints, portraits, and topographical views are an incomparable resource for visual material on many facets of English life of the period. Located in Farmington, Connecticut, the Lewis Walpole Library's collections also include drawings, paintings, and furniture, all housed on a 14-acre campus with four historically important structures and extensive grounds. The Library runs an active fellowship program and sponsors conferences, lectures, and exhibitions in cooperation with other Yale libraries and departments. The Lewis Walpole Library is a non-circulating, closed-stack library. Rare books, manuscripts, prints, and drawings may be consulted only in the Reading Room. Visitors are encouraged to view the Reader Guidelines before visiting the library. What's Available: Printer Public Computer Large Tables Absolute Quiet Hours Access The Lewis Walpole Library is open by appointment only to Yale students, faculty and staff with a valid Yale ID who are authorized to be on campus. Masks are required in library spaces. Directions The Library is typically about fifty minutes from the New Haven campus and about twenty minutes from Hartford by car. The Library is about a forty-minute drive from the nearest airport, which is Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks. Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility