Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Capturing the Eyes of the Beholder Posted on May 09, 2022 by Harini Barath News subtitle DALI Lab undertakes eye-tracking of digital images. Image Image DALI at Dalí: (left to right) Julian Wu ’22, Donia Tung ’22, Jennifer Xu ’23, Tatum Teodori ’22, Isabella Hochschild ’25, and Devon Starr ’25 (Photo by Julian Wu ’22) Body A digital, interactive museum experience designed by the Digital Applied Learning and Innovation (DALI) Lab is attracting eyeballs. Working in conjunction with The Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Fla., a team of Dartmouth students has used eye-tracking technology to create a computer program that captures the viewer’s gaze as they view artwork by Salvador Dalí, a leading figure in the Surrealist movement. The program examines how people look at paintings, says Tim Tregubov, director and co-founder of the DALI Lab, and aims to enhance their understanding and experience of the art. As viewers take in the details of a Dalí painting of their choice, the app follows and records their wandering eyes. This offers a rare window into how people look at paintings—which themes or colors draw the most attention, where the eyes linger and for how long. After a year of research, software development, and digital design, the program had its first test run over spring break. Project manager Donia Tung ’22, software engineers Julian Wu ’22, Devon Starr ’25, and Isabella Hochschild ’25, and user experience designers Jennifer Xu ’23 and Tatum Teodori ’22 traveled to The Dalí to continue finessing the program alongside the museum staff they have been working with virtually to-date. Every term at the DALI Lab, more than 85 students work on projects in teams of designers, software engineers, and a project manager. Student mentors and staff provide an exciting, fast-paced, and supportive learning environment where students create digital solutions for partners around the world. “It was exciting and very gratifying to watch our partners at the museum test out the project for the very first time,” says Tung. A major in computer science and history modified with women, gender, and sexuality studies, Tung is interested in exploring how computer science and emerging technologies can be used to facilitate storytelling, and describes the project as “a culmination of everything that I’ve ever been interested in.” Teodori, an engineering and studio art major, was also drawn to the project because it blended technology and art. She worked on the project from the start, from conducting preliminary research on digital exhibits to creating the look and feel of the experience with the other designers on the team. It was rewarding, she says, and a valuable lesson on how to work with clients. Interactive exhibits at natural history and science museums were always a big draw for Wu, a computer science and economics major. The opportunity to build a personalized experience for museumgoers was what attracted the computer science and economics major to the project. He hopes that visitors enjoy giving the eye-tracking technology a whirl as they learn about art. Besides sharpening students’ technical and design skills, the project also enabled them to acquire a rich amount of domain knowledge about the physiology of vision, Dalí’s art, and museum curation to create a compelling digital design solution, says Tregubov. It was challenging to develop code for a new, cutting-edge hardware, which didn’t come with a ton of documentation, says Wu. What was more daunting, he says, “was building something that hundreds or thousands of people will see and use someday. Everything has to be pixel perfect.” The Dalí was introduced to Dartmouth’s DALI Lab when the museum hosted Eric Fossum, the vice provost for entrepreneurship and technology transfer, for a talk in 2019. It’s not a coincidence the two entities share a similar name, though. The choice of the acronym for the digital arts lab was deliberate, a hat-tip to Dalí and the avant-garde. The museum was intrigued by the DALI Lab’s work and mission and began discussing collaboration ideas, ultimately landing on the eye-tracking project. The Dalí is more than a museum; it is a laboratory in which to experiment with new ways of thinking, says Dalí Museum Executive Director Hank Hine. “This collaboration with Dartmouth’s DALI Lab program and students provided an avenue to begin studying a topic we’ve long been interested in exploring,” he says. “And it paired harmoniously with our dedication to both education and to developing experiences that blend art and technology.” Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback