Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Admissions Future students Apply Cost of attendance Financial aid Request information Visit Academics Colleges, departments and schools Library Research Global programs Graduate programs Distance education Undergrad majors Students Info for students Academic support Schedule of classes University catalog Health and wellness Student organizations Safety Info for Students Faculty & staff Parents & families Alumni Business & industry Giving to ISU About Extension & outreach Information technology Employment Diversity and inclusion Arts and attractions Athletics Cyclone athletics Sports schedules Tickets COVID-19 Vaccinations Moving Forward COVID-19 Testing Cyclones Care Iowa State strongly encourages students, faculty and staff to get vaccinated against COVID-19. The Iowa Board of Regents announced in April that the regent universities will not mandate vaccinations for any student or employee for the 2021-22 academic year. Update (Nov. 10, 2021): Board of Regents President Michael Richards has directed the regent institutions to make vaccination verification and accommodation systems available to all campus employees on a voluntary basis. Read more in his letter to the campus community. If you have questions, please access this COVID-19 Vaccination Verification FAQ. Iowa State vaccination clinics Iowa State’s Thielen Student Health Center (TSHC) offers free COVID-19 vaccination clinics for students. Students should schedule an appointment online or call 515-294-5801 and bring their ISUCard to the clinic. TSHC has the Pfizer vaccine available. Clinic hours: 9 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., Monday-Friday at TSHC Clinic Pharmacy Pfizer booster shots also are available for students who meet the CDC guidelines (more detail below). Students who received Pfizer for their primary vaccine series must wait at least six months after their primary vaccine (six months starts two weeks after second dose) before receiving a booster. Students who received Johnson & Johnson as their primary vaccine series are eligible at least two months after their shot. Employees who need their initial vaccine series or a booster are encouraged to contact their medical provider. For additional vaccine options: Search vaccines.gov, text your ZIP code to 438829, or call 1-800-232-0233 to find locations near you. Who’s eligible for a booster? Anyone 18 years or older is now eligible for a booster shoot. If you received the two-dose Pfizer or Moderna vaccine for your primary series, you must wait at least six months before getting a booster. If you received Johnson & Johnson as your primary vaccine, you must wait at least two months. The CDC recommends all authorized vaccines for a booster, regardless of which one you received for your primary series. Vaccination FAQ Find answers to questions about vaccines and vaccination distribution at Iowa State. Area and statewide vaccination information McFarland Clinic (Ames and area locations) Story County Public Health State of Iowa public health agencies VaccineFinder.org (via CDC.gov) Avoid vaccine scams: ISU Extension and Outreach resources to protect yourself and loved ones Get the facts About the COVID-19 vaccine Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) COVID-19 vaccine information Vaccination dashboard Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 vaccine information and chatbot Vaccine facts Vaccination tracker Authorized vaccines Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, safety data (PDF) (approved for age 12 and above) FDA granted full approval on Aug. 23, 2021 Moderna COVID-19 vaccine, safety data (PDF) (approved for age 18 and above) Johnson & Johnson (Janssen), fact sheet (PDF) (approved for age 18 and above) What to expect After receiving a COVID-19 vaccine Possible side effects, adverse events Reporting V-safe: The CDC's smartphone-based, after-vaccination health checker for people who receive COVID-19 vaccines. V-safe uses text messaging and web surveys from the CDC to check in with vaccine recipients following COVID-19 vaccination. V-safe also provides second vaccine dose reminders if needed, and follow-up calls to anyone who reports medically significant adverse events. Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS): The national system that collects reports from healthcare professionals, vaccine manufacturers, and the public of adverse events that happen after vaccination; reports of adverse events that are unexpected, appear to happen more often than expected, or have unusual patterns are followed up with specific studies. Vaccination FAQ Updates will be provided here and on the COVID-19 updates and resources website. Avoid misinformation by consulting reliable sources, including health care experts, agencies and organizations. The university is following guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Iowa Department of Public Health. Why vaccinate? Vaccines help prevent deadly and dangerous diseases by working with the body's natural defenses to provide immunity. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccinations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): How vaccines work Understanding mRNA vaccines Ensuring vaccine safety Vaccination FAQ Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2020 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information