Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Academics Columbia Law provides you with unmatched opportunities to study and engage in the law. Explore Columbia Law's curriculum, courses, and academic calendar. More in this Section Explore Academics: J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education A pioneering force in legal education for more than 160 years, Columbia Law School provides you with unmatched opportunities to study and engage in the law. Study with world-renowned faculty who are leading authorities in their fields, and collaborate with them on projects that tackle some of the most challenging issues of our time. Gain real-world lawyering experience by participating in clinics, externships, simulations, policy labs, workshops, and moot court programs. Learn to think critically and responsibly about the law and its impact on individual lives, judicial institutions, and global affairs. J.D. Program and Curriculum Build a strong intellectual foundation as you prepare to launch your legal career. Learn More LL.M. Program and Curriculum In one year, broaden your perspective and understanding of the law, your network, and your career potential. Learn More Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum Grow from an accomplished professional to a leader in international business law through Columbia Law School’s accelerated hybrid program. Learn More J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Columbia Law School’s most advanced law degree program prepares you for a career in legal scholarship. Learn More Public Interest: Pro Bono Stats and Facts Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law 88% of the Class of 2021 exceeded Columbia's pro bono requirement. Learn more. 17 remote spring break pro bono caravans throughout the U.S. and overseas in 2021 35,526 hours of pro bono service performed by Class of 2021 students. Explore Public Interest and Public Service at Columbia Law Registration Services Learn More International Programs Learn More Dual and Joint Degrees Learn More Experiential Learning Offerings Discover Experiential Learning at Columbia Law 30+ externships Learn more. 30+ policy labs and simulations Learn more. 8 clinics Learn more. Discover Experiential Learning at Columbia Law Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video What the Law Means to Me: Members of the Class of 2021 Share Their Stories Seven members of the Class of 2021 reflect on their Columbia Law School experiences and what they hope to achieve next. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent In The Press Who Should Regulate? A Review of “The Chevron Doctrine” Thomas W. Merrill | New York Review of Books In The Press Is Musk Getting Cold Feet About Acquiring Twitter? Eric Talley | Bloomberg Law Podcast Graduation J.D., LL.M., J.S.D., and Executive LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Antony J. Blinken ’88, U.S. Secretary of State, delivering the keynote address during the online graduation ceremony on April 29, 2021. Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.