Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Applying Courses Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Share Transferring Courses from Elsewhere into the CS Graduate Programs at Dartmouth The policies that follow are about (1) substituting courses but without being granted credit and (2-5) being granted credit for courses taken before entering the degree program at Dartmouth. 1. Substituting courses without credit If a particular course is required for a student's degree, but the student feels he or she already knows this material (e.g., from a previous course somewhere else—even if it was for another degree—or from life experience), he or she may, with the approval of the professor teaching the required course, petition the Graduate Committee to substitute a different course. (Note that such substitution does not reduce the number of required courses.) 2. Transferring course credit, from external courses If a student has taken courses elsewhere of rigor and subject matter comparable to or exceeding those of our graduate courses, she or he may petition the Graduate Committee to transfer credit, reducing the number of courses required for her or his graduate degree here at Dartmouth. To pursue this option, the student should: Prepare an exhaustive dossier describing the external course (e.g., syllabus, textbook information, assignments, exams, and the student's grade). Obtain approval from the relevant subject matter experts at Dartmouth. (E.g., for an advanced OS course, having one of our OS professors say "yes, this equals our 258.") The Graduate Committee will consider each request on a case-by-case basis, in the context of the student's performance in the previous course, the student's graduate program and the policies established by the Graduate Office. Per Grad Office rules, at most 3 credits may be transferred into the MS program and at most 6 into the PhD. For approved courses, the student must then obtain and complete a "Transfer Credit" form from the Graduate Office. 3. Course credit, from Dartmouth courses outside the department Students currently enrolled in our graduate programs may take courses outside the department for graduate credit, provided that they first receive approval from their program advisor. Normally, the department will allow at most two such courses for PhD students, and at most one for MS students. (Students are still free to take courses outside the department—but, like additional undergraduate courses, these will not count for graduate credit.) 4. Course credit, from Dartmouth COSC MS to COSC PhD A PhD student who has completed his or her MS in our department may draw upon the non-research courses he or she took as an MS student to satisfy his or her PhD course requirements. 5. Course credit, from Dartmouth Undergrad PhD students who were Dartmouth undergrads may count up to 6 courses they have taken as undergrads for PhD course requirements, provided the student earned a B+ or better. MS students who were Dartmouth undergrads may count up to 5 course that have taken as undergrads for MS course requirements, provided the student earned a B+ or better in three, and earned an A in the other two. In both cases, the courses must be regular courses from Dartmouth (that is: they cannot be from a different institution and cannot be research credits). Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback