Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Share Information about AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students For information about AIT that is not on this page, visit the AIT website. The Design Room, where the Design Workshop course takes place. (photo by Dave Kotz) The AIT student lounge. (photo by Dave Kotz) Dávid Szeszlér teaching the course in Combinatorial Optimization. (photo by Dave Kotz) A Rubik’s cube signed by Ernő Rubik. (photo by Dave Kotz) The lobby area of AIT. (photo by Dave Kotz) PreviousNext General Information About AIT-Budapest AIT-Budapest was founded in 2007 by Gábor Bojár, “the Bill Gates of Hungary.” Bojár is a physicist and entrepreneur who founded Graphisoft in the early 1980s. Graphisoft made software for computer-aided design, targeting 3D architectural design. The company did very well after communism fell, and Bojár sold the company in 2007 to open up AIT. Although AIT is affiliated with the Budapest University of Technology and Economics (BUTE), it does not grant degrees. AIT offers individual courses for U.S. and Hungarian students in Computer Science, Mathematics, Design, Entrepreneurship, and Hungarian Culture (such as language, cinema, and music). The instructors come, for the most part, from BUTE. Transcripts come from BUTE with grades on a scale of 1 to 5. Letter grades map to numbers; a 5 could mean A-, A, or A+. All instruction is in English, and the quality of instruction varies. Because Bojár has free rein to run AIT as he sees fit, subpar instructors either improve or are replaced. Our students who have been to AIT report that several of the courses have been excellent. Classes are small, typically 10 to 20 students. The two largest classrooms hold about 40 students. Only 90 to 100 students are present in each semester. U.S. students come from top universities and liberal-arts colleges. One course of note is the Design Workshop course, in which students make physical objects from simple materials. The founder of this course, who occasionally still stops by, is Ernő Rubik, the inventor of Rubik’s Cube. AIT operates out of its own building in Graphisoft Park, a research park on the west bank of the Danube River in the northern section of Budapest. Graphisoft Park tenants include Microsoft and SAP. The AIT building has classrooms, a kitchen, a shower, and a student lounge. There are cafeterias in the park where you can get meals. Dartmouth has sent dozens of students to AIT. The AIT academic staff, headed by Andras Recski, has been eager to work with Dartmouth. For example, they modified the syllabus for their Algorithms course so that we could approve it for transfer credit. The non-academic support staff is superb. AIT will help you arrange for housing in an apartment. AIT tuition does not include rent. The Official Stuff If you attend AIT, it is on a transfer term. AIT is not an FSP. Dartmouth has no official connection with AIT, other than that Professor Cormen is on the AIT Advisory Council. Along with applying to AIT, you need to apply to Dartmouth for a transfer term. Transfer term requests are decided by the Committee on Instruction. They do not approve all transfer term requests and limit the number of students going to the same school in the same term to five; therefore, we have requested to AIT that they accept no more than five students per term. Dartmouth charges a fee for taking a transfer term, but the fee is currently $0 for the fall term. Dartmouth limits the number of post-matriculation courses for transfer credit to four, lifetime. Transfer courses may count toward graduation and major requirements, but grades in transfer courses do not affect your Dartmouth GPA. In order to receive transfer credit for each course, it must be approved in advance. Below is a table of AIT courses and the corresponding Dartmouth courses for which transfer credit will be approved. You still must get the appropriate faculty member to sign off on each course, however. In Computer Science, this faculty member is the Undergraduate Program Director. AIT Course Title Our Equivalent Advanced Applications Applied Cryptography COSC 62 Deep Learning COSC 78 Mobile Software Development COSC 65 Structure and Dynamics of Complex Networks MATH 76 Creative Design and Entrepreneurship Design Workshop COSC 29 Foundational Courses in Computer Science Algorithms and Data Structures COSC 31 Combinatorial Optimization COSC 84 Computer Graphics COSC 77 Data Mining 1: Models and Algorithms + Data Mining 2: Applications COSC 74 Graph Theory MATH 38 Quantum Probability and Quantum Logic PHYS 75 Semantic and Declarative Technologies COSC 69 Theory of Computing COSC 39 Note that AIT will charge you tuition directly. No financial aid is available. AIT operates on a semester system. AIT’s fall semester overlaps only our fall term, beginning very shortly after our summer term ends, and ending in December. AIT’s spring semester overlaps both our winter and spring terms. Therefore, most Dartmouth students who attend AIT do so during the fall of their junior year. Because AIT operates on a semester system, you must take courses on a semester system. You must take at least four courses at AIT, for at least 16 credits. Not all four need to be technical. If you want to drop a course, Professor Cormen must approve it, and if dropping takes you below 16 credits, he will deny your request. Applying to AIT You can find the application on the AIT website. Although AIT’s deadline for fall-semester applications is in March, there is an internal Dartmouth deadline of February 1 of the year for which you are applying, starting with applications for Fall 2019. (If you are applying for a semester other than the fall, the AIT deadline is the Dartmouth deadline.) When you apply, you need to list a contact at Dartmouth who verifies that you are eligible for AIT; that contact is Professor Cormen (not the Registrar). If you are considering applying, you must let Professor Cormen know before you apply; a simple email suffices. Starting with Fall 2019 applications, if you apply after February 1, he will not verify that you are eligible. You will need two recommendation letters. They should be from professors in Computer Science, Mathematics, or Engineering Sciences who know you and can write good things about you. You should make sure that your recommendation letters are submitted soon after you have applied. Admission decisions are made by the AIT North American office, based at Harvey Mudd College. They are made on a rolling basis, which is why we want all applications in by February 1. You must have taken COSC 50 before arriving at AIT. (You may take it after applying, however, as long as you have taken it before going.) You will need to know how to code in C on UNIX systems at AIT. We recommend that you also have taken COSC 30 before arriving at AIT, though that is not required. Budapest and Hungary Budapest (pronounced as if it were spelled “Budapesht”) is a beautiful city with a rich history. It was formed when two cities on opposite sides of the Danube River merged. Pest, on the eastern side, is flatter and skews younger demographically. It’s where most of the student apartments are located. Because you’ll be crossing the Danube and then going north to get to AIT, your commute on trains and/or buses could take up to an hour. Pest is also where you’ll find most of the nightlife, including the ruin pubs (bars built in bombed-out building ruins). Buda, on the western side of the Danube, is hillier and skews older demographically. The old castle sits on the Buda side, overlooking the Danube. Several majestic bridges cross the river. You will find many marks of Budapest’s history throughout the city. Remnants of communism and Soviet occupation persist, including the House of Terror, now a museum. Harking back further is Heroes Square, with statues of Hungarian heroes going back over 1000 years. Budapest is built on hot springs, and the city contains many public baths. The Hungarian language, though it uses the Roman alphabet with unusual accent marks, is not Indo-European. You will not find many words that are cognates to English words. Fortunately, most people under 30 in Budapest speak English. Even if you don’t learn any Hungarian, you’ll want to learn the place names. Vegetarians, be warned: the Hungarian diet is heavily meat based. We’ve had vegetarians who went to AIT and survived, but finding food was a bit of a challenge. To everyone: if you see a vegetable, eat it, because it might be a while before you see another one. Although Hungary is in the EU, it is not in the Eurozone. Hungary has its own currency, the forint (like the start of a loop in Java or C++). The exchange rate is approximately 250 forint per U.S. dollar. Hungary currently has a rightist government. Our students report that the political situation in Hungary has little impact on U.S. students. Because Hungary is centrally located in Europe, if you plan your time well, you will be able visit many other European locales easily and inexpensively. Get your homework done before the weekend, and head to Prague, Vienna, or Berlin! Further Information For further information about AIT-Budapest, visit the AIT website or make an appointment to see Professor Cormen. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback