Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Accessibility Services Request Materials via Eli Express HathiTrust Access for Yale Users with Print Disabilities Library Assistance for Persons with Disabilities Physical Accessibility Information Other Resources Available on Campus Contact the Library Library Assistance for Persons with Disabilities The Yale University Library serves as an important research and educational resource for the students, faculty, and staff of the Yale community. In order to ensure all users equitable access to the library's collections, public services, and web resources, the library has developed a program of services that enable users with disabilities to take full advantage of its offerings. The following services will be available to persons with disabilities upon request: Finding and Using Library Materials Assistance to facilitate the use of finding aids (online and physical) Paging of books from stacks and shelf areas (may be on a delayed basis) Assistance in ascertaining the availability of books and periodicals housed in Yale libraries Extension of reserves or loan periods or modification of other lending rules on an individual basis when possible Telephone assistance with finding out the status of an item on Orbis, the online catalog. On an individual basis, library staff will check to see if an item is on the shelf (may be on a delayed basis) Ensuring of access to microform readers, computers, and other pieces of information technology Assistance with photocopying of a limited number of pages from books and journals (may be on a delayed basis) Reference Assistance Advice about access to specialized online information sources Explanations and descriptions of sources of specialized information Help with numerous bibliographic citations Instruction on how to use available library technologies located at adaptive workstations Proxy Cards Users with disabilities are eligible to obtain a proxy borrower's card from the Sterling Memorial Library Service Desk for a specified friend or attendant to borrow library materials on their behalf. Proxy cards for non-students/staff will be determined on a case-by-case basis depending on an applicant's particular circumstances. For more information on university-level assistance for Yale students and staff with disabilities, contact the Office of Institutional Equity and Access Physical Accessibility Information Service animals are allowed in all libraries; this includes dogs and miniature horses only. Support animals such as birds and pigs are not allowed in libraries. Haas Family Arts Library The Haas Arts Library, including study rooms and classrooms, is wheelchair accessible. Bass Library The building is wheelchair-accessible. An outside elevator (located in the pavilion entrance to the Thain Family Cafe and the Bass Library) will take the reader directly to the Bass Library. To get to the Sterling Memorial Library from the Bass Library, readers with wheelchairs should take the elevator one level up to the tunnel connecting Bass Library and Sterling Memorial Library. Once through the tunnel, in the Wright Reading Room, turn left to the elevator and proceed up to the main level and the Sterling Memorial Library nave. Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library The building is wheelchair-accessible via the doorway on its south side. The guards, who are on duty during library hours at the desk on the street-floor level, will assist anyone needing to use the elevator to reach the exhibition floor or readers' services on the court level. The restrooms, on the court level, are wheelchair-accessible according to current codes. Marx Science and Social Science Library Wheelchair access via the southeast entrance of Yale Science Building (YSB) located across from the Kline Geology Laboratory (KGL). Once inside YSB, take the elevator up to the concourse level. Pass the OC Marsh Lecture Hall and continue through the concourse until YSB connects to Kline Tower. The Marx Library entrance will be located on the right-hand side Wheelchair access is to the concourse level of Marx Library only; no elevator to lower level. Staff are available to page materials from book stacks on lower level; please request paging at the Information Desk or request through the online catalog. Study rooms, classroom, Mac and PC workstations, restrooms are accessible on the concourse level. Classics Library Persons with wheelchairs must call the desk (432-8054); the elevator goes to the fifth floor only with a key. Divinity Library The library is wheelchair-accessible via the main entrance of the Yale Divinity School. Inside the library, an elevator gives access to the second and ground floors. Mathematics Library One of the 3 rooms of the Mathematics Library (LOM 223) is wheelchair-accessible. Library readers can use an elevator in Dunham Lab and take it to the 4th floor, proceed down the corridor, and over the bridge to reach the Math Library. Medical Library The library is wheelchair-accessible via the entrance on 333 Cedar Street. Elevator access to the basement collections is available. Sterling Memorial Library The building is wheelchair-accessible via the High Street entrance. Readers who require assistance to get into the Sterling Memorial Library should press the blue door operator button located to the right of the entrance door. When exiting the blue door operator button is located on the stanchion on the right just past the High Street security post. Contact the Library For assistance with library services, please contact: Katy Webb Director of Yale Library Access Services and Bass Library kathryn.webb@yale.edu Yale University Resources Office of Institutional Equity and Access Student Accessibility Services For inquiries regarding this page, please contact Sara Machowski, Senior Executive Assistant. Tel. 203-432-8600 Last modified: Tuesday, July 13, 2021 - 4:49pm Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility