Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Showcase | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter Showcase At the Kernochan Center, faculty and staff produce original scholarship in the field of intellectual property. We involve our students in our research and we also strive to recognize their excellent scholarship in their own endeavors. From time to time, we will highlight some of that scholarship on our website. Unspoken Criticism: Audiovisual Forms of Critique as Fair Use by Alec Fisher, JD 2021 Winner of the 2021 Andrew D. Fried Memorial Prize, awarded annually for the best student essay on a subject in the field of intellectual property and related law published in the Columbia Journal of Law and the Arts during the preceding year. Copyright infringement liability of online content sharing platforms in the US and in the EU after the Digital Single Market Directive: a case study by Teresa Garcia-Barrero, LLM 2020 Chosen for showcase by Prof. Jane Ginsburg and Visiting Prof. Barton Beebe. Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.