Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Sterling Memorial Library Stacks Guide History Location Physical location is 120 High Street. Mail to Yale University - Sterling Memorial Library c/o Access Services 344 Winchester Avenue (Docks 7/8) New Haven, CT 06511-1918 askyalelibrary@yale.edu 203-432-1775 In the heart of central campus, Sterling Memorial Library is Yale’s largest library and one of the University’s most iconic buildings. Completed in 1930, it houses more than 2.5 million volumes, with a focus on humanities and area studies, on 14 floors of book stacks. Designed by architect James Gamble Rogers (Yale Class of 1889) and later named for its benefactor, John William Sterling (Yale Class of 1864), the library is built in the Collegiate Gothic style to resemble a European cathedral. The main entrance, known as the Nave, has a 60-foot ceiling, cloisters, clerestory windows, side chapels, and a circulation desk altar. Stained glass windows throughout the building—3,300 in all—were designed by artist G. Owen Bonawit. In addition to reading rooms and library departments, Sterling encompasses Gilmore Music Library, Manuscripts and Archives, the Franke Family Digital Humanities Lab, the Yale Film Archive, the Poorvu Center for Teaching and Learning, and the new Hanke Exhibition Gallery (to be completed in 2021). What's Available: Outdoor Space Printer Public Computer Natural Light Individual Tables Large Tables Scanner Individual Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Chalk Board/White Board Absolute Quiet Eli Express Delivery Location Electrical Outlets Couches Conversation Allowed Hours Location Phone Email Babylonian Collection Rooms 318 - 327 203-432-1837 agnete.lassen@yale.edu Benjamin Franklin Collection & Papers Rooms 230 - 232 203-432-1814 amy.jacaruso@yale.edu Accessibility An accessible entrance faces Cross Campus. Please ring doorbell for assistance. An elevator is located straight back from the main entrance. Men's and women's accessible bathrooms are on the ground floor in the Music Library and downstairs in the Wright Reading Room. Access A valid Yale ID with activated swipe access is required for entry after 6 pm. The Manuscripts and Archives reading room is open to non-Yale researchers with advance attestation of vaccination. See visitor information, including vaccination requirements, at bit.ly/YaleLibraryCovid19. Directions From the New Haven Green or Phelps Gate on Old Campus, take College Street north to Elm Street. Make a left onto Elm Street. Go past Hopper College and Berkeley College (on your right). At High Street, turn right and follow the cement pathway. The Women's Table sculpture on your right and Sterling Memorial Library will be to the left. Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility