Skip to main content × Alert: All classes and work will take place remotely for the remainder of the semester. Check the Columbia COVID-19 site for updates to campus and academic operations. Header Menu Students Faculty Staff Giving Alumni Events Admissions Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions LL.M./J.S.D. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions Columbia Law School shapes the legal profession’s future leaders. We prepare our students for professional roles in a broad range of areas, including academia, public service, advocacy, and business. Our graduate programs give students the opportunity to develop their scholarship and specialize in fields not fully covered in their previous coursework. Academics & Courses Academics & Courses Courses J.D. Program LL.M./J.S.D. Program Executive LL.M. Program International Programs Dual and Joint Degree Programs Experiential Learning Public Interest and Government Academic Calendar Registration Since 1858, Columbia Law School has been a world leader in legal education. Our faculty members are highly accomplished practitioners and scholars, and our vast curricular offerings provide students with unmatched opportunities to engage in the law. Careers Careers Overview Public Interest and Government Private Sector Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Columbia Law graduates are sought after by the world's top employers. Our students have attained leadership roles at eminent social justice organizations, law firms, NGOs, governmental entities and academic institutions. About About Columbia Law School Dean's Welcome Leadership Departments Finance and Administration Faculty Resources History Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs Columbia Law School draws strength from the vast interdisciplinary resources of our distinguished university—as well as our New York City location—our students complete their legal training ready to engage the world’s most challenging issues. News Latest News Video Library Search form Search Search About Columbia Law School In this section Dean’s Welcome Leadership Departments Finance and Administration Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs History Visit Campus ABA Required Disclosures Contact Us Faculty Resources Columbia Law School is renowned for the intellectual rigor of its curriculum and the groundbreaking scholarship of its faculty. Drawing strength from the vast interdisciplinary resources of our distinguished research university—and the global stage of New York City—our students complete their legal training ready to engage the world’s most challenging issues across borders, jurisdictions, subject matters, sectors, and industries. Learn more about our J.D., LL.M., and J.S.D. programs. Renowned Faculty Our professors are the leading scholars and top practitioners in their fields, shaping public policy and the practice of law around the world. Read More Innovative Research Columbia Law is home to several centers and institutes that produce cutting-edge research and hold speaker series, conferences, and more. Read More A Global Law School A key strength of Columbia Law School is its global approach to legal education. Courses, fellowships, and a wide array of research projects are internationally focused. Read More A Tradition of Public Service One of the first law schools with a pro bono requirement, Columbia Law maintains a commitment to fostering public service. Read More Experiential Learning The Law School's robust clinical and externship programs enable students to tackle real-world legal problems. Read More Career Services Our graduates are sought after by the world's top employers, and the Law School provides alumni with a wealth of services throughout their careers. Read More Read about our J.D., LL.M., and J.S.D. programs. Learn More Dean’s Welcome Departments Leadership ABA Required Disclosures Visit Campus Contact Us Connect With Us twitter facebook linkedin instagram Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions LL.M./J.S.D. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions Academics & Courses Courses J.D. Program LL.M./J.S.D. Program Executive LL.M. Program International Programs Dual and Joint Degree Programs Experiential Learning Public Interest and Government Academic Calendar Registration Careers Overview Public Interest and Government Private Sector Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships About Columbia Law School Dean's Welcome Leadership Departments Finance and Administration Faculty Resources History Contact Us Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs Latest News Video Library See what @ColumbiaLaw is all about. Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators Directory Columbia University Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us