Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Symposium 2017 Schedule | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter “Exploring International Copyright’s Gaps and Flexibilities” Columbia Law School, October 6, 2017 Recommended Readings International copyright treaties, particularly the Berne Convention (supported and made enforceable in the WTO by TRIPS) govern crucial elements of domestic copyright law. While Berne was intended to be regularly updated to keep pace with social and technological advances, it has now been almost half a century since the last substantive revision, and there’s a very real prospect that it may never be revised again. TRIPS, too, is proving to be effectively unamendable. The world has changed enormously since the promulgation of these treaties, and now relies ever more heavily on the making of copyright-invoking copies and transmissions. At the same time, there are increasingly urgent calls for copyright reforms to improve outcomes for authors and better facilitate the continued availability and use of works. If copyright is to rise to the challenges of the age, we must think critically about the scope for modernization within the existing framework. At the next Kernochan Center Symposium, to be held in New York on October 6, leading experts will analyze the gaps and flexibilities within copyright’s international framework – and posit how they might be navigated to support meaningful reform even in the absence of textual change. Program 8:30-9:00 Registration 9:00-9:15 Welcome remarks 9:15- 10:30 Keynote Panel Sam Ricketson, University of Melbourne Law School - "Recent Developments in International Copyright" Rebecca Giblin, Monash University Law School - "A New Copyright Bargain?" 10:30-10:45 Break 10:45-1:00 Panel: Improving Copyright for Creators While some justify the broad and long grants mandated by Berne/TRIPS as favoring authors, it is not clear to what extent authors in fact benefit from these rights. Author-unfavorable outcomes may not be surprising, given both their weaker bargaining position and the enormous changes to business models, creative practice and consumer behavior since the establishment of the international treaty frameworks. Amending the treaties is unlikely, but what room do they allow to improve the economic returns to authors? In this session, the panel will consider opportunities within the Berne/TRIPS framework to improve outcomes for the individuals at the center of the copyright equation. Particular consideration will be given to current attempts to reserve a greater share to authors in the US and Europe – and the not-entirely-satisfactory effects of those endeavors to date. Moderator: Niva Elkin-Koren, University of Haifa Panelists: Martin Senftleben, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam Séverine Dusollier, SciencesPo Jane Ginsburg, Columbia Law School Mary Rasenberger, Authors Guild Ruth Towse, Bournemouth University 1:00-2:00 Lunch 2:00-3:30 Panel: Facilitating Transactions and Lawful Availability of Works of Authorship The panelists will discuss techniques to facilitate licenses with authors and to enhance the accessibility of copyrighted works (e.g., formalities, Extended Collective Licenses, compulsory licenses, viral licenses) and consider the extent to which those techniques could be Berne-compatible. Moderator: June Besek, Kernochan Center, Columbia Law School Panelists: Rob Kasunic, United States Copyright Office The Hon. William Vancise Q.C., Retired Chair, Copyright Board of Canada Kate Spelman, Lane Powell LLP, Board Member, Creative Commons Rán Tryggvadóttir, KU Leuven Center for IT & IP Law 3:30-3:45 Break 3:45-4:45 Panel: Remedies, Enforcement and Territoriality Berne and TRIPS were settled before the internet and digital technologies transformed the making of copies and transmissions into an essential part of daily life. Here, panelists consider how approaches to remedies, enforcement and territoriality might be rethought, consistent with the treaties, to better respond to the challenges of the age. Moderator: Tim Wu, Columbia Law School Panelists: Giuseppe Mazziotti, Trinity College, Dublin Eric Schwartz, Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp Kimberlee Weatherall, University of Sydney 4:45-5:00 Closing remarks Information Regarding New York CLE Credits: Columbia Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education (CLE) Board as an Accredited Provider of CLE programs. Under New York State CLE regulations, this live transitional and non-transitional CLE Program will provide 7 credit hours that can be applied toward the Areas of Professional Practice requirement. CLE credit is awarded only to New York attorneys for full attendance of the Program in its entirety. Attorneys attending only part of a Program are not eligible for partial credit for it, although they are most welcome to attend it. Attendance is determined by an attorney's sign-in and sign-out, as shown in the Conference registers. On sign-out, attorneys should also submit their completed Evaluation Form, provided at the Conference. Please note the NYS Certificates of Attendance will be sent to the email address as it appears in the register unless otherwise noted there. Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.