Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Symposium 2016 Trading in IP | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events Upcoming Events Past Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter Trading in IP: Copyright Treaties and International Trade Agreements October 14, 2016 CLE MATERIALS The Kernochan Center's 2016 sympsoium took an in-depth look at the role international copyright treaties and free trade agreements (FTAs) play in copyright law. 8:30-9:00 Registration and Breakfast 9:00-9:15 Welcome Remarks 9:15-10:30 Session I: Keynote Panel: Describing the Legal Landscape Panelists will discuss the legal landscape of copyright treaties and free trade agreements, including the role of FTAs and their benefits and disadvantages, and how copyright obligations in FTAs may differ from those in international treaties. Moderator: June M. Besek, Executive Director of the Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts, Columbia Law School Panelists: Probir Mehta, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Innovation and Intellectual Property Steven J. Metalitz, Partner, Mitchell, Silberberg & Knupp LLP and Counsel to the International Intellectual Property Alliance 10:30-10:45 Break 10:45-12:15 Session II: The Impact of International Copyright Treaties and Trade Agreements on the Development of Domestic Norms Panelists will discuss how international copyright treaties and FTAs affect national IP laws in the U.S. and elsewhere. Moderator: Pippa Loengard, Deputy Director of the Kernochan Center for Law, Media and the Arts, Columbia Law School Panelists: Krista Cox, Director of Public Policy Initatives, Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Ysolde Gendreau, Professor, Université de Montréal Eric J. Schwartz, Partner, Mitchell, Silberberg & Knupp LLP and Counsel to the International Intellectual Property Alliance Karyn Temple Claggett, Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of Policy & International Affairs, U.S. Copyright Office 12:15-1:30 Lunch 1:30-3:00 Session III: Issues Concerning Enforcement and Dispute Resolution Panelists will discuss strategies for achieving compliance with international copyright treaties and trade agreements, and related issues. Moderator: Petros Mavroidis, Professor, Columbia Law School Panelists: Sean Flynn, Associate Director for Program on Information Justice and Intellectual Property, American University Washington College of Law Maria Strong, Deputy Director of Policy and International Affairs, U.S. Copyright Office Antony Taubman, Director of the Intellectual Property Division of the World Trade Organization Steven Tepp, President and Founder of Sentinel Worldwide 3:00-3:15 Break 3:15-4:45 Session IV: Fair Use and Other Exceptions Panelists will discuss efforts to incorporate exceptions into international copyright treaties and trade agreements, including for example a flexible “fair use”-type exception. Moderator: Jane Ginsburg, Professor, Columbia Law School Panelists: Jonathan Band, Jonathan Band PLLC David Carson, Senior Counsel and Head of Copyright Policy Team, Office for Policy & International Affairs, U.S. Patent and Trademark OfficeU.S. Patent and Trademark Office Lital Helman, Professor, Ono Academic College Faculty of Law Stan McCoy, President and Managing Director of the Motion Picture Association (MPA) EMEA 4:45-5:00 Closing Remarks Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.