Skip to main content For information about visitor access, see COVID-19 updates Yale University Library Your Library Account Ask Yale Library Reserve Rooms Places to Study Research Quicksearch Search Library Catalog (Orbis) Search Law Library Catalog (MORRIS) Search Borrow Direct Search WorldCat Search Articles+ Search Digital Collections Search Archives at Yale Research Guides Find Databases by Title Find eJournals by Title Guide to Using Special Collections Services Your Personal Librarian Subject Specialists Research Support and Workshops Citation Tools Get It @Yale (Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan, Scan & Deliver) Course Reserves Off-Campus Access EliScholar OverDrive: Popular Audio and eBooks Bass Media Equipment Libraries & Collections Arts Library Bass Library Beinecke Library Classics Library Divinity Library Film Archive Fortunoff Archive Humanities Collections International Collections Law Library Lewis Walpole Library Library Collection Services Manuscripts & Archives Map Collection Marx Science & Social Science Library Mathematics Library Medical Library Music Library Sterling Library Yale Center for British Art Information & Policies Library Hours Departments & Staff Borrowing & Circulation Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright Basics Scanning, Printing & Copying Computers & Wireless Library Policies About the Library Giving to the Library Purchase Request Working at the Library Terms Governing Use of Materials Anne T. & Robert M. Bass Library Explore Bass Library Building Location & Hours About Bass Library For Library Assistance Visit the Bass Service Desk on the Courtyard Level to check out collection materials, reserves, or media equipment. Staff at the service desk will be happy to assist you with locating collection materials and answering any questions about library services and resources. In addition, the offices of two undergraduate librarians are located on the Courtyard Level (C80A and C81A). Bass Library Spaces The newly renovated Bass Library offers a wide variety of space configurations, including soft seating, tables, study pods, standing desks, and reservable group workspaces. Options include: Group Study Rooms L30 A,B,C and D; L34 A,B,C and D and L03 and L04 are on the Lower Level and may be reserved by groups of two or more people. These spaces offer a variety of soft seating, long tables for meetings, and LCD screens with connections for laptops. Please reserve through schedule.yale.edu. Individual Study Carrels Small study rooms, suitable for one to two people, are available on both the Courtyard Level and Lower Level. These rooms are offered on a first-come, first-served basis. ADA-accessible carrels are available on both levels. Outdoor Seating Tables and chairs are available for outdoor study in both courtyards on the Courtyard Level from opening to dusk, weather permitting. Food and Drink Thain Family Café located on the Courtyard Level of Bass, offers coffee, tea, specialty drinks, sandwiches, and snacks. Vending machines are also located here. Technology Printers, copiers and scanners are available on both levels. Borrowing Media Equipment Current Yale students, staff and faculty may reserve and check out media equipment, including cameras and camera lenses, video cameras, digital recorders, and microphones. Computers Workstations equipped with specialty software are available for use by Yale community members on both levels. Getting Help with Technology Support for personal computers and other devices is available to Yale students and faculty through the Technology Troubleshooting Office in Room L05 on the Lower Level of Bass Library. Collections Bass Library holds a wide range of titles in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, arts, law and medicine and is designed to support the Yale College curriculum. The collection also includes books recommended by students through engagement programs like the Reading Resilience Project, which aims to highlight underrepresented voices. Shelved primarily on the library’s Lower Level, the collection provides a gateway and introduction to all the Yale University Library collections, distributed across more than a dozen Yale libraries and locations. Selected titles in Bass may be duplicated in other Yale libraries or as e-books. In addition, several smaller collections designed to foster student engagement with print books are showcased on the Courtyard Level Course reserves, selected by faculty as class readings, can be checked out for designated time periods (2-hours, 24-hours, or 3-days). 24-hour and 3-day reserve titles are shelved in the main collection on the Lower Level, and 2-hour reserve titles are available at the Bass Service Desk. Reserves also contain copies of textbooks requested by students under the library’s Textbook Request Program. The Graphic Novel Collection is an actively developed collection of primarily English-language graphic novels including classics of the genre and complementing the graphic novel collections shelved in Sterling Memorial Library. The Display Collection is a frequently changing collection of 20-30 titles related to a timely topic. The Display Collection is selected and displayed to catch students’ attention and foster discussion. The Model Research Collection is a small-scale research collection that models breadth and depth in a specific subject area. This collection is developed in partnership with faculty, students or other members of the campus community on a topic or subject of their own proposal. Library Instruction & Workshops Librarians offer classes and workshops to help students, staff and faculty use the library, find materials, organize citations, and create bibliographies. To request library instruction for a class, please place an instruction request. Bass Library also offers workshops throughout the year. Check the schedule for the current offerings. Classrooms and Teaching Spaces L01 (A and/or B) and L06 (A and/or B) may be reserved by library staff in two-hour increments until 5PM, Monday through Friday. After 5PM and on weekends, students may reserve these rooms for study or meetings. Please reserve through schedule.yale.edu. L70-L72 are seminar type classroom spaces with seating for 12-18 people. This room may be reserved through Yale's Registrar. Last modified: Tuesday, July 27, 2021 - 1:47pm Yale Search Giving Events News System Status Privacy Policy Feedback Data Use Accessibility