Skip to main content Skip to site navigation and search Kernochan Symposium 2019: Exploring Copyrightability and Scope of Protection | Columbia Law School Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts Home About Us Events News Newsletter Projects Showcase Student IP Awards Student Resources IP Resources Keep Your Copyrights Contact Us Stay Connected Join our mailing list Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Tweets by @KernochanCenter Kernochan Symposium 2019: Exploring Copyrightability and Scope of Protection Co-sponsored by the United States Copyright Office Symposium 2019 The form authorship takes has never been static, but in the 21st century, the changes seem to be happening at lightning speed. While forms of creative expression advance at a faster rate than the law, authors must grapple with how – and whether – copyright attaches to their creations. But this is not a new dilemma. And even where a work as a whole is entitled to copyright protection, key elements may be unprotectable under the merger doctrine or as scènes à faire. The 2019 Kernochan Center symposium, held in conjunction with the U.S. Copyright Office, addressed these issues in Exploring Copyrightability and Scope of Protection. Recommended Readings (Hard copy available by advance request) Information Regarding New York CLE Credits: Columbia Law School has been certified by the New York State Continuing Legal Education (CLE) Board as an Accredited Provider of CLE programs. Under New York State CLE regulations, this live transitional and non-transitional CLE Program will provide 5.5 credit hours that can be applied toward the Areas of Professional Practice requirement. This CLE credit is awarded only to New York attorneys for full attendance of the Program in its entirety. Attorneys attending only part of the program are not eligible for partial credit. Attendance is determined by an attorney's sign-in and sign-out, as shown in the Conference registers. On final sign-out, attorneys should also submit their completed Evaluation Form, provided at the Conference. Please note the NYS Certificates of Attendance will be sent to the email address as it appears in the register unless otherwise noted there. 8:30 Registration 9:10-9:40 Introduction Speakers: June Besek, Executive Director, Kernochan Center Karyn Temple, U.S. Register of Copyrights 9:45-11:45 Panel One - Subject Matter of Copyright: challenges of new modes of authorship This panel discussed the challenge new art forms pose to the traditional contours of copyright such as authorship and fixation. Moderator: Pippa Loengard, Deputy Director, Kernochan Center Speakers: Amelia Brankov, Counsel, Frankfurt Kurnit Klein & Selz PC Professor Robert Brauneis, George Washington Law School Professor Shyam Balganesh. Penn Law School; visiting, Fall 2019, Columbia Law School Professor Christopher Buccafusco, Cardozo Law School Regan A. Smith, General Counsel and Associate Register of Copyrights 11:45 am – 1:15 pm LUNCH (on your own - see our listing of local restaurants) 1:15 – 3:00 Panel Two - Scope of Copyright Protection This panel discussed separating protectable from unprotectable content post Star Athletica, and the scènes à faire doctrine: does it make sense? Moderator: June Besek, Executive Director, Kernochan Center Speakers: Dale Cendali, Partner, Kirkland & Ellis LLP Robert Clarida, Partner, Reitler Kailas & Rosenblatt LLC Robert Kasunic, Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of Registration Policy and Practice Professor Jane Ginsburg, Columbia Law School Joseph Gratz, Partner, Durie Tangrie LLP Joshua Simmons, Partner, Kirkland & Ellis LLP 3:00- 3:15 Break 3:15 - 4:15 Roundtable Practitioners and a representative from the Copyright Office spoke about their practical experiences concerning applications to register non-conventional works. Moderator: Jane Ginsburg, Morton L. Janklow Professor of Literary and Artistic Property Law at Columbia Law School and Faculty Director of the Kernochan Center Speakers: Janet Fries, Of Counsel, Drinker Biddle LLP Tom Kjellberg, Of Counsel, Cowan Liebowitz & Latman PC Megan Noh, Partner, Pryor Cashman LLP Nancy Wolff, Partner, Cowan DeBaets Abrahams & Sheppard LLP Catherine Zeller Rowland, Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of Public Information and Education 4:15 Conclusion Directory Columbia University Directory Navigate the site Home About the School Admissions Academics Faculty Centers and Programs Courses Students LawNet School Events Academic Calendar School News Magazine Alumni Giving Careers Library Latest Tweet Read the latest tweet... Follow us on Twitter @ColumbiaLaw Share Page Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Connect Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Search form Search Log in News Events Admissions Students Faculty Alumni Careers Library Programs Go to the Columbia Law School homepage Directory Campus Map Columbia University Jobs at Columbia Policies Contact Us © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators.