Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Prizes Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Share Honors Program Every year a few computer-science majors choose to go beyond the normal major and enter our Honors Program. Honors students engage in independent work culminating in the writing of a senior thesis, and are considered for graduation with honors in the major. The experience of participating in an independent research project and of writing a senior thesis can be particularly important for anyone who intends to study for the Ph.D. degree in computer science. From the ORC Eligibility requirements Please see the online ORC for all the eligibility requirements for the CS Honors or High Honors programs. Honors Application thesisform_0.pdf thesisform_0.pdf You can fill out this form from within Adobe Acrobat. Type into the following fields: Last name, First name, Middle initial, Class, HB, Thesis advisor, Thesis title, and all Course fields that apply. If the thesis title does not fit on the first line, use the additional lines. Select the appropriate grade for each course. When you click elsewhere, the GPA field will be computed automatically and then updated. Print out the filled-in form when you are done. You will need to sign the hardcopy, as will your thesis advisor, before you give it to the Undergraduate Program Director. Handing In Your Honors Thesis CS honors theses are due at 9:00 AM the day of the CS faculty meeting at which honors are decided. The Undergraduate Program Director will announce this date to the CS honors thesis students each year as soon as this date is determined. An advisor has the right to require the thesis to be handed in to her or him in advance of the department's deadline. (For example, the advisor might require the thesis to be handed in to her or him before the public presentation, if the student is going for high honors.) The actual deadline, therefore, is the earlier of two times: whenever the advisor requires the thesis to be handed in, and 9:00 AM the day of the CS faculty meeting. No extensions beyond 9:00 AM the day of the CS faculty meeting are ever possible. Never. Nunca. Won't happen. Don't even think about it. Your thesis should be archival quality. In other words, it should be good enough that we will archive it in the Dartmouth Digital Commons. Although you are not absolutely required to archive your thesis in this public repository, we encourage you to do so. The Undergraduate Program Director will send you specific instructions at the time. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback