Skip to main content × Alert: All classes and work will take place remotely for the remainder of the semester. Check the Columbia COVID-19 site for updates to campus and academic operations. Header Menu Students Faculty Staff Giving Alumni Events Admissions Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions LL.M./J.S.D. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions Columbia Law School shapes the legal profession’s future leaders. We prepare our students for professional roles in a broad range of areas, including academia, public service, advocacy, and business. Our graduate programs give students the opportunity to develop their scholarship and specialize in fields not fully covered in their previous coursework. Academics & Courses Academics & Courses Courses J.D. Program LL.M./J.S.D. Program Executive LL.M. Program International Programs Dual and Joint Degree Programs Experiential Learning Public Interest and Government Academic Calendar Registration Since 1858, Columbia Law School has been a world leader in legal education. Our faculty members are highly accomplished practitioners and scholars, and our vast curricular offerings provide students with unmatched opportunities to engage in the law. Careers Careers Overview Public Interest and Government Private Sector Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Columbia Law graduates are sought after by the world's top employers. Our students have attained leadership roles at eminent social justice organizations, law firms, NGOs, governmental entities and academic institutions. About About Columbia Law School Dean's Welcome Leadership Departments Finance and Administration Faculty Resources History Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs Columbia Law School draws strength from the vast interdisciplinary resources of our distinguished university—as well as our New York City location—our students complete their legal training ready to engage the world’s most challenging issues. News Latest News Video Library Search form Search Search Latest News Mental Health and the War in Yemen Clare Skinner ’20 LL.M. and Ellie Dupler ’20 report on their recent trip to Beirut where they attended a workshop tied to the Human Rights Clinic's ongoing advocacy work on the right to mental health in Yemen. December 3, 2019 Human Rights Institute and Clooney Foundation for Justice Train Observers to Monitor Trials Where Human Rights May Be at Risk Human Rights Clinic students working with TrialWatch have begun monitoring legal proceedings to help safeguard rights of journalists, dissidents, and LGBTQ individuals. April 26, 2019 News Archives 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Admissions Overview J.D. Admissions LL.M./J.S.D. Admissions Executive LL.M. Admissions Academics & Courses Courses J.D. Program LL.M./J.S.D. Program Executive LL.M. Program International Programs Dual and Joint Degree Programs Experiential Learning Public Interest and Government Academic Calendar Registration Careers Overview Public Interest and Government Private Sector Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships About Columbia Law School Dean's Welcome Leadership Departments Finance and Administration Faculty Resources History Contact Us Communications, Marketing, and Public Affairs Latest News Video Library See what @ColumbiaLaw is all about. Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram © Copyright 2022, The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. For questions or comments, please contact the web administrators Directory Columbia University Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us