Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Admissions Future students Apply Cost of attendance Financial aid Request information Visit Academics Colleges, departments and schools Library Research Global programs Graduate programs Distance education Undergrad majors Students Info for students Academic support Schedule of classes University catalog Health and wellness Student organizations Safety Info for Students Faculty & staff Parents & families Alumni Business & industry Giving to ISU About Extension & outreach Information technology Employment Diversity and inclusion Arts and attractions Athletics Cyclone athletics Sports schedules Tickets Transparent Inclusive Efficiency Review (TIER) Academic affairs response plan released January 2016 Iowa State's TIER Academic Affairs Response Plan details activities already underway and planned in connection with the TIER efficiency study of academic processes. Regents receive recommendations on academics-related cases October 2015 Iowa's three regent universities need to set more aggressive growth goals for their distance learning programs -- 10 to 15 percent annual growth instead of the current 3, consultants said in preliminary recommendations to the Board of Regents. The regents received these presentations: TIER Efficiency and Transformation Review for Enrollment Management and e-Learning (PDF), Pappas Consulting Group Higher Education Scheduling PDF -- Iowa State's finding start on page 11), Ad Astra Employee input is key piece of services assessment February 2015 Some university employees will be invited in February to share their insights on service processes – in the areas of human resources, information technology and internal financial transactions – as part of the TIER review.. Town hall videos Oct. 13, 2014: Town hall video | Consultants' presentation June 24, 2014: Town hall video | Slide presentation April 1, 2014: Town hall video Regents release report on phase one work June 2014 The state Board of Regents Wednesday, June 11, released its report on the first phase of the Transparent, Inclusive Efficiency Review (TIER). The report describes areas reviewed and themes that emerged during phase one and describes some of the work that will occur during phase two. News article. About the review The Iowa Board of Regents selected the Deloitte Consulting to conduct an efficiency review of the three state universities (Iowa State, Iowa and Northern Iowa). The consultants will look at administrative and academic operations with the aim of maximizing resources, improving efficiencies and containing costs. The review begins this spring with public forums on each campus and could be completed by early next winter. Implementation of review recommendations will take longer. Regents: We need to strengthen Iowa's legacy in higher education March 2014 "It is important to note that the cost savings resulting from the efficiency study will be invested back into the universities," Regents Bruce Rastetter and Larry McKibben wrote in a March 23 op-ed in the Des Moines Register. Letter from President Leath March 2014 In a March 21 letter to faculty, staff and students, President Steven Leath noted that savings resulting from the efficiency review will be reinvested into programs that strengthen teaching and research and keep public education affordable to students and their families. TIER updates News articles Board of Regents University of Iowa University of Northern Iowa Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011 contact@iastate.edu 515-294-4111 phone More contacts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2020 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information