Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs MS in CS with Digital Arts 4+1 MS in CS with Digital Arts 4+1 AB/MS in CS Courses Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Graduate Life Alumni Professors CS Graduate Application Apply Now! Share M.S. Programs The online application system for Fall 2022 admission is now open. Please direct questions to our program e-mail address, ms@cs.dartmouth.edu. Relaxed GRE/TOEFL requirements for Fall 2022 admission COVID-19 Update With many testing centers closed due to the pandemic, we are waiving the GRE requirement for the Fall 2022 admission cycle. We do still require the TOEFL, but will accept the ETS home edition. However, applicants whose primary undergraduate instruction and last 2 years of secondary/high school were in English are exempt from the TOEFL/IETLS requirement this admission cycle. Masters program variations We offer two MS programs: a standard 2-year (7-term) MS CS program, giving students an opportunity to take a deeper dive into Computer Science. This program offers both a "coursework track" and a "research thesis track." an MS in CS with concentration in Digital Arts Each program offers a 4+1 AB/MS version for current Dartmouth students (4+1 AB/MS in CS , 4+1 AB/MS in CS with Digital Arts) To apply to the Digital Arts MS CS program, select that option on the application's "Area of Interest" box. To apply to the standard MS CS, select "Not Applicable." In either program, to apply for a 4+1 option, indicate that in your essay. In a nutshell, the coursework MS program requires thirteen "red, green, or blue" courses; the research thesis track requires nine, plus a thesis. (Note that there are some restrictions on using the "Culminating/Misc" courses.) The full formal requirements for all our graduate degrees are listed in Dartmouth's Organization, Regulations, and Courses. If you're planning ahead, note that COSC 232 ("Advanced Algorithms") and COSC 268 ("Advanced Operating Systems") still exist, but aren't currently in the ORC, due to renumbering (they were formerly 231 and 258, respectively). However, COSC 232 is not offered in academic year 2021-22. Scholarships and Costs Dartmouth College tuition for 2021-2022 will be set in early 2021 (tuition for 2020-2021 was $19,265 per term). Merit-based tuition scholarships are available for those who qualify. Students also pay for the college health insurance plan, unless they have comparable insurance already. The insurance fee for 2021-2022 will be set in early 2021 (detailed information on current fees is available here). Students are responsible for covering their living expenses. Note: Once they have been admitted, international students must provide written certification of financial support for the MS program. Application requirements The required components of your application are: The online application form Three (3) letters of recommendation All applicants should upload a scanned copy of their transcripts. Applicants should not send an official transcript to the Graduate Office unless they are admitted and accept our offer of Admission. All applicants may self report GRE and TOEFL scores. Official test scores are not required unless you are offered admission into the program, and you accept our offer of admission. The $40 application fee These items must reach us by December 15, 2021 in order for your application to receive full consideration. This year we are waiving the GRE requirement. If you have taken it and would like to include it in your application, your score report must reach us by December 15, 2021. If it will be late, you may send us a photocopy now and the official report later. If English is not your native language, we require that you take the TOEFL (Test Of English as a Foreign Language) or the IELTS (International English Language Testing System exam). An IELTS band score of 7.0 or above is required for Dartmouth Programs, but we have no specific test score requirements for the TOEFL or GRE. If you are transferring from a U.S. university, we may waive the language test. As with the GRE, we will accept a photocopy until the official report is available, but the photocopy must reach us by December 15, 2021. We prefer that your recommenders give their recommendations online. Once you have listed their names on the application, an email will be sent to them with a link to the application site. However, if necessary, we will accept recommendations in sealed envelopes through the mail. Recommendation letters from scientists in the same academic and research communities as our departmental faculty will carry more weight. We require a $40.00 application fee, to be paid by credit card online. The fee helps to cover the cost of processing your application and is non-refundable. The application fee will not be waived. Like many graduate programs, we base our admission decisions primarily on the information requested above. We have no minimum test scores. We recognize that you may have talents and experience that do not shine through the forms and test scores. Use the Application Essay section of the online application to give additional information. Do you have a specific reason for coming to Dartmouth? Specific goals for your study? Significant work experience? Why do you want to do advanced training in computer science? Include any publications you have authored (not to exceed 30 pages total). In the Computer Science Supplement section of the online application, attach examples of your work. This is also the place where you can attach a resume. There is no separate application for financial aid. Every applicant is considered for financial aid, unless you say that you do not need financial support. If you do not need support, please indicate this on the application form, and tell us how you expect to be supported. Frequently Asked Questions Q. What are the institution and department codes for the GRE? The GRE institution code is 3351, and the GRE department code is 0402. Q. What are the institution and department codes for the TOEFL? The TOEFL institution code is 3351, and the TOEFL department code is 78. Q. If my GRE scores are low, but I have good grades, can I still get admission? Our decision takes into account all components of your application. Therefore, it is usually impossible to predict the outcome until you apply and the admissions committee goes over your entire application. Q. Can I be admitted for the Winter term? No. We only admit one class each year, matriculating in the Fall term. Q. Where should I have the transcripts and scores sent? Send to: Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Dartmouth College Attn: Computer Science Graduate Admissions Anonymous Hall 64 College St, Suite 6062, Room 102 Hanover NH 03755 Phone: (603) 646-8193 Q: May I get a waiver on the TOEFL? Only if you attended an English-speaking US university for at least four years. Q: I already have an MS degree in Computer Science. Am I eligible for your program? No Q: I did not major in computer science. Am I qualified for your program? See the course dependency graph and the upcoming class schedule. Within 7 terms, at 3 courses/term, you would need to get through 13 of the red/blue/green ones (as well as any pre-requisite courses). Note that there are some restrictions on using the "Culminating/Misc" courses. Your application essay should include your plan for successful completion of these requirements. Q: My undergraduate degree is from an accredited three-year program. Am I still eligible to apply? Yes. Q: May I request to transfer courses I took somewhere else, even for another degree? Yes. See the Course Transfer Policy and Transfer credit application form Answers to additional FAQs about grad admissions, including how to obtain a fee waiver, update an application, and waive TOEFL based on a degree from an English institution, are available at the grad school site. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback