Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Computer Science Department of Computer Science Contact Us Twitter LinkedIn Computer.Science.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Back to Top Nav Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports Back to Top Nav News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Applying Courses Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Graduate Life Alumni Professors Connections Graduate Student Council Share Graduate Life Dartmouth is situated in Hanover, on the Connecticut River, in the Upper Valley region of New Hampshire. It is a beautiful, historic campus, located in a scenic, year-round, outdoor recreational area. Dartmouth hosts an annual film festival; renowned musical and theatrical performers; and convenient public transportation to Boston, New York, and Montreal, as well as local airports. The Location Hanover lies along the eastern bank of the Connecticut River, between the Green Mountains of Vermont and the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Hanover is a small town (about 9, 200 residents) whose major employers are Dartmouth College and the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center. The downtown area, consisting of about four square blocks of shops, is right next to the College. Hanover has tried hard to preserve the traditional New England small-town qualities; there are no big shopping malls or fast food restaurants. The same holds for Norwich, Vermont, just across the river. The neighboring towns of Lebanon and West Lebanon in New Hampshire, and White River Junction in Vermont, are slightly larger and offer more in the way of consumerism. All the other towns in the area are quite small, and the local general store still thrives. The area is served by one local newspaper, several radio stations, and a television station. Boston TV is available on cable in most towns, along with the usual array of movie and sports channels. Amid such rural beauty, it is not surprising that mountain climbing, cross-country skiing, canoeing, and hiking are popular activities. The Dartmouth Outing Club maintains hiking and ski trails all over New Hampshire, and the Appalachian Trail actually goes right through downtown Hanover. The Outing Club leads hikes, bike rides, canoe trips, and ski trips all year round. Housing College housing for married graduate students is available at Sachem Village, a complex of 132 one, two, and three-bedroom apartments about a mile and a half from campus. These apartments are unfurnished except for an electric stove and refrigerator. Couples interested in living at Sachem Village should write to the Office of Rental Housing, 14 South Main Street, Suite 2D, Hanover, NH 03755. When requesting housing at Sachem Village it is best to write as soon as possible, since requests are honored in order of their date of filing. Many single students find private accommodations in the Hanover area. The Office of Rental Housing (see address above) maintains a file of rooms, apartments, and houses for rent, both in Hanover and in nearby towns. If you own a car, you may want to live outside of Hanover where the rents are lower. Health Care Each full-time student is entitled to health care services at Dick's House, on Rope Ferry Road (an extension of North Main Street). Coverage for the fall term starts September 1, and for other terms, on the day before registration; coverage lasts until registration day for the following term, or until your enrollment is terminated by withdrawal, suspension, or separation. All students must either purchase the Dartmouth Student Group Insurance Plan (DS-GHIP), or certify through a waiver application that they are already covered by comparable insurance. The DS-GHIP must be purchased for a full twelve-month year with two exceptions: (1) those students whose waiver ceases to be valid must purchase the group insurance at that time; (2) all students with accepted waivers that enroll in the Dartmouth Foreign Study Program are required to purchase the DS-GHIP for the terms they are engaged in these programs. In both cases the charges are prorated. Activities Dartmouth offers a modest but active cultural life. The Hopkins Center at Dartmouth is a magnet for the arts in New Hampshire and Vermont; it sponsors concerts by visiting and local musicians, film series, art shows, and theater. The Hop also has workshops for woodworking, sculpture, painting and crafts. The Hood Museum features a good art collection, and the building itself has aroused interest in the architectural community. The local populace includes a high percentage of enthusiastic musicians, thespians, terpsichores, and crafts people; it's easy to find a string quartet or a contradance. The College provides the usual assortment of gyms, basketball courts, tennis courts, squash courts, weight rooms, aerobics classes, swimming pools, and baseball diamonds, as well as a hockey rink, an indoor track, and a golf course. Dartmouth students are traditionally active athletes, and there are plenty of opportunities for spectators and participants. If you want to travel, there are two major highways within five miles of campus, I-89 and I-91. The former will get you to Boston in about two and a half hours or Montreal in three and a half, and the latter leads to New York City in five hours. Vermont Transit provides bus service to all three cities, with stops in Hanover or White River Junction. Amtrak stops in White River on its way to New York, Philadelphia, and Washington. The Lebanon airport is served by U.S. Air Express with direct flights to Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Overview What You Will Learn Advice & Contact Declaring your CS Major/Minor Programs The Major Modified Majors The Minors Honors Program AIT-Budapest for Dartmouth Students Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes Previous Winners Considering Graduate School? Funding & Sponsorship Opportunities Be a TA Lovelace Research Program DALI Lab Graduate Overview Applying PhD Program MS Programs Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Expectations, Policies, and Procedures Course Transfer Policy Graduate Life Alumni Professors Research Overview Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Research Groups & Labs Job Openings Technical Reports News & Events People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback