Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Student Life Community Life Student Life Columbia Law School’s remarkable community is built through teamwork and camaraderie across academic, co-curricular, and social engagements. More in this Section Explore Student Life: Roadmaps Academic Advising Peer Mentoring Housing and Living Student Organizations Financial Wellness Student Journals Wellness and Support Graduation In Columbia Law School’s supportive and student-centered environment, you have the freedom to pave your own path as you develop strong networks through classes, clinics, externships, pro bono work, and a vast array of extracurricular activities and student organizations. Related Links Contact Student Services Incoming Students J.D. Orientation Visting Orientation Transfer Orientation Student Success Roadmaps Learn More Advising Learn More Housing Learn More Columbia Law Experience All News & Stories 1Ls on Orientation, Law School, and Life in NYC Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next The Columbia Law Experience: 2Ls Talk Community, Confidence, and Career Prep Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Next Up Now and Then: 3Ls Reflect on Their Law School Journey and What’s Next Next Up The Columbia Law Experience: 2Ls Talk Community, Confidence, and Career Prep Next Up Beginning Columbia Law: 1Ls Tell Their Stories Next Up The Columbia Law Experience: One Semester In Next Up 1Ls on Orientation, Law School, and Life in NYC All News & Stories Student Life Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Why US-EU Cooperation is More Important Now Than Ever Thu, 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Online Event Zoom Webinar View All Events Graduation J.D., LL.M., J.S.D., and Executive LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Antony J. Blinken ’88, U.S. Secretary of State, delivering the keynote address during the online graduation ceremony on April 29, 2021. Graduation 2021: Highlights of a Special Day Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press Students Video A Lawyer’s Responsibility: Class of 2022 Graduates Reflect on Law School and What’s Next Six students look back on their time in law school and share how they think the Class of 2022 will have an impact on the legal profession and the world at large. Students Video Annah Akhoun-Murat ’22 LL.M.: Build a Sustainable Future Students Video Emily L. Drake ’22: Be Prepared and Know When to Ask for Help Students Video Jordan A.J. Jarrett ’22 LL.M.: Use the Law to Make Meaningful Impact Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.