Skip to main content Report an accessibility problem ASU homeMy ASUColleges and schools Sign in Search ASU Degree Search Home Page Undergraduate Degrees Search Not sure where to start? Sign In to save your search results for later use. me3 game Play a unique 60 image game that helps assess your interest area and matches them to careers and ASU majors. Play the Game Find a degree that fits you Use ASU career advising to align your major with your career goals for optimal success. Career Assessment Accelerated programs Accelerate your education by earning both your bachelor’s and master’s degrees in as few as five years, or your bachelor’s degree in three. Accelerated Programs Find the campus that fits you Take this quiz to find the ASU campus that's best for you. Take the Campus Quiz View all degrees Explore Undergraduate Degrees By Interest Architecture and Construction Arts Business Communication and Media Computing and Mathematics Education and Teaching Engineering and Technology Entrepreneurship Exploratory Health and Wellness Humanities Interdisciplinary Studies Law, Justice and Public Service Science Social and Behavioral Sciences Sustainability STEM What are Accelerated Programs? Accelerated Programs allow students the opportunity to expedite the completion of their degree. 3 year programs These programs allow students to fast-track their studies after admission and earn a bachelor’s degree in three years or fewer while participating in the same high-quality educational experience of a 4-year option. Students should talk to their academic advisor to get started. 4+1 year programs These programs allow students to accelerate their studies by combining undergraduate with graduate coursework, which may allow them to earn a bachelor’s and a master's degree in as few as five years (for some programs). Each program has requirements students must meet to be eligible for consideration. Acceptance to the graduate program requires a separate application. During their junior year, eligible students are advised by their academic departments to apply. What are Concurrent Programs? Concurrent degrees allow students to pursue their own personal or professional interests, earn two distinct degrees and receive two diplomas. To add a concurrent degree to your existing degree, work with your academic advisor. What are Joint Programs? Joint programs, or jointly conferred degrees, are offered by more than one college and provide opportunities for students to take advantage of the academic strengths of two academic units. Upon graduation, students are awarded one degree and one diploma conferred by two colleges. What constitutes a New Program? ASU adds new programs to Degree Search frequently. Come back often and look for the “New Programs” option. What are Online Programs? ASU Online offers programs in an entirely online format with multiple enrollment sessions throughout the year. See https://asuonline.asu.edu/ for more information. What is the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE)? The Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) is a program in which residents of western states (other than Arizona) may be eligible for reduced nonresident tuition. See more information and eligibility requirements on the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) program. Students from western states who select this major may be eligible for a reduced nonresident tuition rate of 150 percent of Arizona resident tuition plus all applicable fees. See more information and eligibility requirements on the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) program Web site. check up to 3 programs to see a side-by-side comparison This program will be stored in your saved programs (upper right) only for this session. To save for later use, please sign in. This program will be stored in your saved programs (upper right). A minor is an approved, coherent focus of academic study in a single discipline, other than the student's major, involving substantially fewer hours of credit than a corresponding major. Certain major and minor combinations may be deemed inappropriate either by the college or department of the major or minor. This is only the first required math course. This program may contain additional math courses; See Major Map for details. The level of intensity represents a measure of the number and academic rigor of math courses required. The level of intensity represents a measure of the number and academic rigor of math courses required. Courses included in the General level: MAT 142 The level of intensity represents a measure of the number and academic rigor of math courses required. Courses included in the Moderate level: MAT 117, MAT 119, MAT 170, MAT 210, SOS 101, CPI 200 The level of intensity represents a measure of the number and academic rigor of math courses required. Courses included in the Substantial level: MAT 251, MAT 265. MAT 266, MAT 267, MAT 270, MAT 271, MAT 272, MAT 274, MAT 275 Students pursuing concurrent degrees earn two distinct degrees and receive two diplomas. ASU offers students two ways to earn concurrent degrees: by choosing a predetermined combination or creating their own combination. Predetermined combinations have a single admissions application and one easy to follow major map. To add a concurrent degree to your existing degree, work with your academic advisor. Either way, concurrent degrees allow students to pursue their own personal or professional interests. Concurrent degree programs are specially designed academic programs which provide high-achieving undergraduate students the opportunity to complete two distinct but complementary bachelor degrees at the same time. Students must meet minimum admissions standards for both programs and be accepted individually by both colleges offering the concurrent program. Concurrent degree programs are specially designed academic programs which provide high-achieving graduate students the opportunity to complete two distinct but complementary graduate degrees at the same time. Students must meet minimum admissions standards for both programs and be accepted individually by both colleges offering the concurrent program. Accelerated bachelor's and master's degree programs are designed for high-achieving undergraduate students who want the opportunity to combine undergraduate coursework with graduate coursework to accelerate completion of their master's degree. These programs feature the same high-quality curriculum taught by ASU's world-renowned faculty. Accelerated bachelor's and master's degree programs are designed for high-achieving undergraduate students who want the opportunity to combine undergraduate coursework with graduate coursework to accelerate completion of their master's degree. These programs feature the same high-quality curriculum taught by ASU's world-renowned faculty. A rolling deadline means that applications will continue to be reviewed on a regular basis until the semester begins. International students should be mindful of visa deadlines to ensure there is time to produce necessary visa documents. Applicants are encouraged to complete and submit application materials as soon as possible for consideration. A final deadline means that all applications and application materials must be received by Graduate Admissions by the deadline date. Applications that are incomplete may not be considered after the final deadline. Applications that are submitted past the final deadline may not be considered. A priority deadline means that applications submitted and completed before the priority deadline will receive priority consideration. Applications submitted after the priority deadlines will be reviewed in the order in which they were completed and on a space available basis. An application is complete after all materials are received by Graduate Admissions. All ASU graduate and undergraduate academic programs are fully accredited by the North Central Association Higher Learning Commission. Many programs also have additional accreditation through specialized accrediting agencies. Read more about faculty excellence Feedback Maps and Locations Jobs Directory Contact ASU My ASU Copyright and Trademark Accessibility Privacy Terms of Use Emergency