Browse A-Z Index People directory ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS STUDENT LIFE ABOUT WSU NEWS & INFO ATHLETICS GIVE TO WSU General Education Transfer Courses Registrar Home Select Institution: **Select One** Allen County Comm College Baker University Baker University Baldwin City Barclay College Barton Community College Benedictine College Bethany College Bethel College Brown Mackie College Brown Mackie College KS City Butler Community College Central Christian College Cleveland Univ-Kansas City Cloud County Comm College Coffeyville Community College Colby Community College Cowley Community College Dodge City Community College Donnelly College Emporia State University Flint Hills Technical College Fort Hays State University Fort Scott Community College Friends University Garden City Community College Haskell Indian Nations Univ Hesston College Highland Community College Hutchinson Community College Independence Community College Johnson County Comm College Kansas City Kansas CC Kansas State University Kansas Wesleyan University Labette Community College Manhattan Area Tech College Manhattan Christian College Marymount College McPherson College Mid-America Nazarene Univ Neosho County Comm College Newman University North Central Ks Tech College Northwest KS Tech College Ottawa University Pittsburg State University Pratt Community College Salina Area Technical College Seward County Comm College Southwestern College St Mary of The Plains College Sterling College Tabor College University of Kansas University of Saint Mary Washburn Institute of Tech Washburn University WSU Campus of Appl Sci & Tech Select Output: HTML/Excel PDF It is the policy of Wichita State University (WSU) to accept all credits – with the exception of remedial coursework – earned at an accredited post-secondary institution. Each academic college or department within WSU determines how those credits apply toward a particular degree program. Sometimes there can be a significant difference between what transfers and what counts toward a degree, especially if the courses are vocational in nature. WSU has very specific General Education requirements. (www.wichita.edu/generaleducation) Division General Education Designation A = Fine Arts and Humanities A3= Fine Arts Gen Ed A5 = Humanities Gen Ed B = Social and Behavioral Sciences B5 = Soc/Behav Gen Ed C = Mathematics and Natural Sciences C5 = Math/Nat Science Gen Ed To lookup the WSU equivalency for a transfer course: Select the Name of the transfer institution. Select an individual Subject area abbreviation or * All Subjects *. To view the results, select either HTML/Excel or PDF and click the Submit button. Course information for Kansas colleges and universities is extensive. The information for other colleges is limited to those courses that have previously appeared on a WSU transfer student’s transcript. If a transfer course is not listed, it is because a student has not yet transferred that course to WSU. A transfer course that has a WSU equivalency course number of 2000, 4000, 6000, or 8000 is counted as an elective. Some courses with a specific WSU equivalent course will also only count as an elective, depending upon the student’s program at WSU. The number of elective hours that count toward a degree can vary from 3 to 40, depending upon the academic college or department’s program. Effective Term Column The effective term column indicates the last term a course was reviewed for transfer to Wichita State University. A course is reviewed because it is a newly offered course or due to changes in course structure. FAQs What if my course or school is missing from the list? That does not necessarily mean that the course does not transfer or that Wichita State University does not accept credits from that school. It does mean that we have not had a request to transfer the particular course from that Institution. Tip: If the course is not listed in the drop down list, select * All Courses *. Some courses must be taken with one or more other classes in order to count as a transfer course. Additional questions? New incoming freshman - contact the Wichita State University Office of Admissions during regular business hours. 316-978-3085 1-800-362-2594 admissions@wichita.edu Current/former WSU students - contact the Registrar's Office during regular business hours. 316-978-3055 Wichita State University | 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 | (316) 978-3456 A-Z | Policies and Procedures | Campus Safety | RSS Feeds | Contact Wichita State University © 1995- Wichita State University. All rights reserved.