retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu WebPub Lunches & Events Search Search Web Accessibility Policies and Standards Best Practices Accessibility Resources Scanning & Assessments User Experience Security WebPub Community WebPub Lunch Web Publishing Office Hours Breadcrumb Home Scanning and Assessments How to ensure accessible University websites & applications How to ensure accessible University websites & applications Web Accessibility Policies and Standards Best Practices Accessibility Resources Scanning & Assessments Websites & Applications Testing Ensuring accessible University websites Public websites: Site owners should run currently available accessibility tools (e.g., Color Contrast Analyzer, Wave, NVDA) during website development to check for U.S. Section 508 compliance. Site owners should contact the ITS Accessibility Administrator by sending a request to accessibility-assessments@utlists.utexas.edu to initiate scan configuration in Monsido. Site owners will need to ensure that the Monsido crawler's IP address (35.226.117.128) is whitelisted in their firewall configuration. Once sites have been set up by the ITS Accessibility Administrator; the sites are scanned weekly. Site owners should study the scan results and contact the ITS Accessibility Administrator with questions to address noncompliance issues. Additional scans may be requested to improve compliance adherence and increase the web site score. Accessibility scores for "All" issues will be tracked. This score includes potential issues that the site owner will need to review via the Monsido tool to raise the score. Monsido accessibility scores are sent to the EIR Accessibility Coordinator every other month for disbursement to deans and vice presidents. Ensuring accessible University applications Externally Acquired or Purchased Applications The EIR Accessibility Coordinator will request a VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template) review by ITS Accessibility Administrator. The VPAT is completed and provided by the application vendor. The EIR Accessibility Coordinator then uses a set of guidelines and criteria (product audience, scope of use, cost of software, etc…) to determine if accessibility testing on the application is needed. This testing and evaluation will be done by the ITS Accessibility Administrator. University-developed Applications Software developers should run the currently available accessibility tools (e.g., Color Contrast Analyzer, Wave, NVDA) during application development to check for U.S. Section 508 compliance. Guidance and review from the ITS Accessibility Administrator is available by sending a request to accessibility-assessments@utlists.utexas.edu. Request a Scan or Review Email accessibility-assessments@utlists.utexas.edu to request a Monsido scan for your web site, or an accessibility review for your application. Our Mission: Create a more cohesive and interactive web publishing community, resulting in a better web presence for the university. Footer menu WebPub Lunches & Events Website Feedback UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022