Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Wind Engineering and Experimental Aerodynamics Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search About Us WEEA Program WIST Laboratory Facilities Aeronautic and Atmospheric Boundary Layer Bill James Wind Tunnel Blue Tunnel Icing Tunnel Laminar Flow Tunnel Tornado Micro-burst Simulator Instrumentation Support Facilities Research Projects Homepage The Wind Engineering and Experimental Aerodynamics (WEEA) Program at ISU focuses on the study of fluid-structure interaction problems that include, mainly the detrimental effects of wind on civil and mechanical structures, and the environment, and a wide range of aerospace-related research. The primary goal of wind engineering research in this program is to conduct comprehensive studies of near-ground winds generated by tornados, thunderstorms, hurricanes and gust fronts and assess their damaging effects on built structures and developed lands (including farmland), with the purpose of improving their design to reduce damaging effects. Wind Engineering is a multi-disciplinary field of study that requires involvement of researchers from various departments of engineering, environmental and atmospheric sciences, economics, statistics and architecture. The WEEA program at ISU is unique by virtue of its location in the Department of Aerospace Engineering. The work in the lab utilizes the latest in thermal and optical (including PIV) diagnostic techniques and several other instruments. Outside of the typical aerospace activities, the lab has also been involved in various projects involving ground-vehicle aerodynamics. This program has received significant funding from the US National Science Foundation since its inception in 2000. Wind Engineering and Experimental Aerodynamics Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...