Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Review the latest on COVID-19 vaccines. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Weill Cornell Medicine Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Home Our StoryToggle Our Story menu options History About Dean Choi Vision Statement Dean's Messages Boards and CouncilsToggle Boards and Councils menu options Board of FellowsToggle Board of Fellows menu options Board Members Committee Members Full-time Faculty Election Master Calendar Executive Faculty Council General Faculty Council LeadershipToggle Leadership menu options Senior Leadership Department Chairs Administration and Finance Leadership Clinical Affairs Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Medical Education Leadership External Affairs Leadership Faculty Affairs and Development Leadership Graduate School Leadership International Affairs and Affiliations Leadership Physician Organization Leadership Research Leadership WCM-Qatar Leadership Mentorship Diversity International Affairs Innovation Affiliations Maps and Directions Contact Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home Our Story Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Home Departments Physiology and Biophysics The Physiology and Biophysics Department seeks to explain the functions of the human body’s building blocks: cells, tissues and organs. Faculty focuses on several areas of research, such as uncovering receptors that make cell function and intercellular communication possible in the brain and throughout the body. The department’s graduate program prepares students in some of the most advanced modes of biomedical research through specialized courses and seminars. Visit Website News New Cancer Subtype May Illuminate Treatment Strategy May 27, 2022 Researchers at Weill Cornell Medicine and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have identified a previously unrecognized form of hormone therapy-resistant prostate cancer, as... Study Reveals Cause, Potential Precision Therapies for Aggressive Type of Lymphoma May 25, 2022 DNA mutations are essential to the rapid development of an array of antibody-producing immune cells called B cells that collectively can recognize a vast number of specific... Dr. Olga Boudker Elected to the National Academy of Sciences May 5, 2022 Election to the National Academy of Sciences is one of the highest honors a scientist can receive. View All News Related Units HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Al‐Saud Institute for Computational Biomedicine See Overview Visit Website Location Contact Us Weill Cornell Medicine Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Vimeo 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-5454 Contact Us About Us Our Story Affiliations News Care Find a Physician Clinical Services Patient Portal Discover Research Clinical Trials Teach MD Education Graduate School MD-PhD Qatar Connect Alumni Events Giving Careers Community Campus Alerts WCM Central Are you looking for a physician? Visit the Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Website. Weill Cornell Medicine Care. Discover. Teach.® We are committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating the next generation of healthcare leaders. Weill Cornell Medicine • Cornell University • NewYork-Presbyterian • Houston Methodist © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Social Media Policy Web Accessibility Assistance