Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Review the latest on COVID-19 vaccines. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Weill Cornell Medicine Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Home Our StoryToggle Our Story menu options History About Dean Choi Vision Statement Dean's Messages Boards and CouncilsToggle Boards and Councils menu options Board of FellowsToggle Board of Fellows menu options Board Members Committee Members Full-time Faculty Election Master Calendar Executive Faculty Council General Faculty Council LeadershipToggle Leadership menu options Senior Leadership Department Chairs Administration and Finance Leadership Clinical Affairs Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Medical Education Leadership External Affairs Leadership Faculty Affairs and Development Leadership Graduate School Leadership International Affairs and Affiliations Leadership Physician Organization Leadership Research Leadership WCM-Qatar Leadership Mentorship Diversity International Affairs Innovation Affiliations Maps and Directions Contact Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home Our Story Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Care Weill Cornell Medicine faculty and staff put patients first. WCM physicians are among the top in the nation and stay on the leading edge of new procedures and technologies. See what we are doing in Patient Care Discover Weill Cornell Medicine researchers work to advance laboratory breakthroughs in common health challenges, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. See what we are doing in Research Teach Weill Cornell Medicine educational programs are among the most selective in the nation, with unique international partnerships and comprehensive student services. See what we are doing in Education Patient Care Website Exceptional Patient Care is the Heart and Soul of our Mission Weill Cornell Medicine faculty and staff put patients first. WCM physicians are among the top in the nation and stay on the leading edge of new procedures and technologies. See what we are doing in Patient Care Research Clinical Trials Clinical and Translational Science Center We Discover Innovative Cures and Treatments Weill Cornell Medicine researchers work to advance laboratory breakthroughs in common health challenges, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. See what we are doing in Research MD Education Graduate School MD PhD Qatar Training Future Healthcare and Scientific Leaders Weill Cornell Medicine educational programs are among the most selective in the nation, with unique international partnerships and comprehensive student services. See what we are doing in Education Our Story Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to excellence in patient care, scientific discovery and the education of future physicians in New York City and around the world. Since 1898, our doctors and scientists have been engaged in world-class clinical care and cutting-edge research that connect patients to the latest treatment innovations and prevention strategies. Weill Cornell Medicine's powerful network of collaborators extends to its parent university Cornell University; to Qatar, where Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar offers a Cornell University medical degree; and to programs in Tanzania, Haiti, Brazil, Austria and Turkey. Weill Cornell Medicine faculty provide exemplary patient care at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, NewYork-Presbyterian Westchester Behavioral Health Center, NewYork-Presbyterian Lower Manhattan Hospital, NewYork-Presbyterian Queens and NewYork-Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital. Weill Cornell Medicine is also affiliated with Houston Methodist. Read Our Story We’re Changing Medicine Weill Cornell Medicine's vision for the future means expanding and elevating our ability to care, discover and teach. Join us. How To Schedule Your COVID-19 Vaccine Appointment Weill Cornell Medicine, in partnership with NewYork-Presbyterian, is currently vaccinating our eligible patients against COVID-19. Diversity Diversity Innovation International Affairs Mentorship Diversity Innovation International Affairs Mentorship Diversity Diversity is one of Weill Cornell Medicine’s core values and is essential to achieving excellence in patient care, research and education. Innovation Entrepreneurship and innovation enable Weill Cornell Medicine to bring discoveries to patients faster. International Affairs Weill Cornell Medicine has a legacy of global engagement that is reflected in more than 20 global health programs spanning six continents. Mentorship Weill Cornell Medicine is fostering a vibrant and dynamic culture of mentorship to nurture the next generation of healthcare leaders. Latest News See All Latest News Articles Awards Recognize Faculty and Student Achievements Weill Cornell Medicine faculty members were honored with awards for their exemplary achievements in medical research, education and care at the institution’s commencement ceremony on May 19 at... Study Reveals Cause, Potential Precision Therapies for Aggressive Type of Lymphoma New Cancer Subtype May Illuminate Treatment Strategy Commencement Returns to Carnegie Hall, Marking Joyous Day For Graduates Upcoming Events See All Weill Cornell Medicine Events June 01, 2022 12:00pm to 3:00pm Perioperative Bleeding Management Master Class June 01, 2022 12:00pm to 1:00pm Running Effective Virtual Meetings June 01, 2022 4:00pm to 7:00pm Population Health Sciences Roundtable June 01, 2022 5:00pm to 7:00pm Spine Time: Medication for Back Pain Faculty Honors & Awards Rhonda Yantiss, M.D. Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Dr. Rhonda Yantiss, professor of pathology and laboratory medicine, has been awarded the F.K. Mostofi Distinguished Service Award from the United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology (USCAP). The USCAP honors superior performance in teaching, research, publications and service by recognizing vision, imagination and intuitive leadership. Research Profile Clinical Profile Lisa Newman, M.D. Chief of the Section of Breast Surgery at Weill Cornell Medicine and NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center Dr. Lisa Newman, chief of the Section of Breast Surgery at Weill Cornell Medicine and NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, received a Victoria’s Secret Global Fund for Women’s Cancers 2022 Meritorious Award, in Partnership with Pelotonia & the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR). The awards are intended to recognize five influential female researchers who have made pioneering contributions to the fundamental understanding and/or treatment of breast or any form of gynecologic cancer. The awards will be presented at the AACR Annual Meeting, April 8-13 in New Orleans. Research Profile Clinical Profile Laura Kolbe, M.D. Assistant Professor of Medicine Dr. Laura Kolbe, assistant professor of medicine, has been awarded a John A. Benson Jr., MD Professionalism Article Prize from the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) for her article "On Gifts and Heroes," published January 2021 in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. The prize recognizes the best articles written in peer-reviewed journals on pressing issues facing the medical profession in 2021. In her article, Dr. Kolbe questions whether referring to health care workers as heroes creates unfair expectations that they will accept excessive work risks or demands. Research Profile Clinical Profile Dean's Messages View all Dean's Messages May 18, 2022 May 2022 Dean's Letter This is an extraordinary time within academic medicine. There are so many opportunities to strengthen our healthcare systems, address inequities in care, and promote the health of patients and populations. Contact Us Maps and Directions 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone 212-746-5454 Contact Us Giving to WCM Alumni Careers Location Contact Us Weill Cornell Medicine Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Vimeo 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-5454 Contact Us About Us Our Story Affiliations News Care Find a Physician Clinical Services Patient Portal Discover Research Clinical Trials Teach MD Education Graduate School MD-PhD Qatar Connect Alumni Events Giving Careers Community Campus Alerts WCM Central Are you looking for a physician? Visit the Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Website. Weill Cornell Medicine Care. Discover. Teach.® We are committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating the next generation of healthcare leaders. Weill Cornell Medicine • Cornell University • NewYork-Presbyterian • Houston Methodist © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Social Media Policy Web Accessibility Assistance