Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Review the latest on COVID-19 vaccines. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Weill Cornell Medicine Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Pursuing an MD degree Pursuing a graduate degree Finding faculty Finding a physician Starting a career at WCM Reading the latest WCM news Giving to WCM Home Our StoryToggle Our Story menu options History About Dean Choi Vision Statement Dean's Messages Boards and CouncilsToggle Boards and Councils menu options Board of FellowsToggle Board of Fellows menu options Board Members Committee Members Full-time Faculty Election Master Calendar Executive Faculty Council General Faculty Council LeadershipToggle Leadership menu options Senior Leadership Department Chairs Administration and Finance Leadership Clinical Affairs Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Medical Education Leadership External Affairs Leadership Faculty Affairs and Development Leadership Graduate School Leadership International Affairs and Affiliations Leadership Physician Organization Leadership Research Leadership WCM-Qatar Leadership Mentorship Diversity International Affairs Innovation Affiliations Maps and Directions Contact Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home Our Story Patient Care Research Education Faculty Departments Home Departments Academic Affairs The Office of Academic Affairs oversees student education through Weill Cornell Medical College and the Graduate School of Medical Sciences. The office is committed to excellence in research, teaching, patient care and the advancement of the art and science of medicine. To better achieve this aim, the office oversees curriculum improvements and student involvement in extracurricular experiences, including community service and work at the Weill Cornell Community Clinic or the Weill Cornell Center for Human Rights. The office also oversees joint degree programs, such as the Tri-Institutional MD-PhD Program; pre-medical programs, including the Travelers Summer Research Fellowship Program; and continuing medical education offerings at the institution. Visit Website Related Units Admissions See Overview Visit Website Location Contact Us Weill Cornell Medicine Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Vimeo 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-5454 Contact Us About Us Our Story Affiliations News Care Find a Physician Clinical Services Patient Portal Discover Research Clinical Trials Teach MD Education Graduate School MD-PhD Qatar Connect Alumni Events Giving Careers Community Campus Alerts WCM Central Are you looking for a physician? Visit the Weill Cornell Medicine Patient Care Website. Weill Cornell Medicine Care. Discover. Teach.® We are committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating the next generation of healthcare leaders. Weill Cornell Medicine • Cornell University • NewYork-Presbyterian • Houston Methodist © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Social Media Policy Web Accessibility Assistance