Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search RELATED LINKS Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Faculty and Staff Housing Faculty and Professional Affairs: Coral Gables Faculty and Professional Affairs: Miller School Faculty Senate Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home Academics Faculty AAA Faculty RELATED LINKS Faculty and Staff Assistance Program Faculty and Staff Housing Faculty and Professional Affairs: Coral Gables Faculty and Professional Affairs: Miller School Faculty Senate Considered one of the world’s leading experts on the mechanisms of copper toxicity to fish and other aquatic organisms in freshwater and seawater, Martin Grosell has published 157 papers in peer-reviewed literature as well as a number of book chapters. As an archaeologist specializing in prehistoric cultures of the New World, professor Traci Ardren has led students on field excavations in Mexico, Panama, the Everglades, and the Florida Keys. Learn from the Leaders Faculty at the University of Miami are expert scholars and teachers. They include Guggenheim Fellows, Fulbright Scholars, and National Science Foundation Scholarship recipients. About 98 percent of our full-time regular faculty has a doctorate or highest degree in their fields. They are at home in the classroom, or in the field where they conduct extraordinary research and exploration. Our faculty constantly expand the horizons of knowledge and discover new areas of innovation. Some study the oceans and health of coral reefs. Some examine how people regulate their behaviors. Some travel with students to countries in Europe, Africa, Asia, and South America and the Caribbean to experience new cultures, conduct research, and provide health care to developing nations. At the Miller School of Medicine, faculty guide more than 1,300 ongoing research projects. Our faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences shape knowledge throughout all areas of the arts, humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences through their innovative research. Our faculty are also real-world professionals, bringing expertise in the field into the classroom. For example, faculty in the School of Communication include former reporters and editors from top national news organizations, and more than 70 percent of full-time faculty in the School of Architecture work in private practice. With a student-faculty ratio of 12 to 1, the University of Miami offers classes that are intimate and interactive, and faculty act as mentors and advisors. Some even live in apartments in the residence halls as residential masters, participating in a unique living-learning community. As active researchers, passionate scholars, and committed teachers, UM faculty are role models and guides, setting the standard for excellence that is the University’s hallmark. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback