Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Students You are here Home Students Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events New Students To our newest Owls, welcome to the Temple family! We’re here to provide the information you need before getting started and reassure you that you’ll have access to the support you need to have a successful first semester. Learn more about becoming a new student at Temple. Transfer Students As a transfer student, you have access to resources that will support you in your transfer transition. Explore these resources as you begin your journey at Temple. International Students Our international community and the larger Temple community are so excited that you will be joining us this fall. Learn about about events and important information for new international students. OWLcards for Students Temple University is adopting a “mobile first” strategy regarding the Temple OWLcard. University students will be expected to download the OWLcard Mobile credential to their Apple or Android device as the primary identification on campus. Physical OWLcards will be provided as an alternative only when a mobile device is unavailable or there is a university system that does not accept the mobile solution. Use your mobile device on the Main and Ambler campuses for building access, meal plans, Diamond Dollars, Recreation Services, printing, entry to front doors of residence halls and residential laundry. (At this time, exceptions include some parking areas and Kronos employee swipes, vending and library borrowing privileges.) Find instructions to use OWLcard Mobile here. If you need to have a physical OWLcard, you must make an appointment with the OWLcard Office to have one made. COVID-19 Vaccination In accordance with the city of Philadelphia Board of Health’s new vaccine requirements, Temple University now requires all faculty, staff, students and contractors to receive the COVID-19 vaccine by Oct. 15, 2021. It is our hope that this new policy will help Temple more quickly return to the vibrant and dynamic campus we are. To be considered fully vaccinated, you must upload your vaccine information to Temple’s patient health portal at temple.edu/vaxupload. View Instructions Upload Your Info Get Involved Find your people, find your place Learn how to spend your time as an Owl growing personally and professionally. Through our many clubs and opportunities, you can connect with your culture and identity, discover the experiences of others, and understand how becoming a global citizen prepares you for your future. Get Involved opportunities to connect at Temple Go Back HomeMore in Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.