Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home Student Life AAA Student Life The 120,000-square-foot Donna E. Shalala Student Center is where students go to eat, study, attend events, meet up with friends, make things happen, and just relax. Studying is always better in a hammock surrounded by palm trees. Enjoy the bird's-eye view of Lake Osceola from the Shalala Student Center Moss Terrace. Get some peace and quiet in the 24-hour Kornspan Study Lounge. The Hurry 'Canes Shuttle takes you where you want to go. Set one foot on campus and you’ll feel it—a vibe that celebrates life, learning, and daily activities that are anything but routine. Capitalizing on its glorious weather, national reputation, and location at the crossroads of the Americas, the University of Miami offers students unparalleled academic support, enrichment activities galore, sports and cultural offerings, wellness and fitness programs, and endless opportunities to explore, engage, and better the community and the world. Visit the Division of Student Affairs page. Academic Support Students learn best when they study what they love, and at the U your education is distinctly yours. We give students the freedom to cross disciplines and design their studies around their strengths, curiosities, passions, and goals and we advance their potential by providing a multitude of resources—from career counseling and honors programs, to writing workshops and opportunities to study abroad—to prepare them for success. Academic Enhancement Academic Resource Center Honors Program Study Abroad Writing Center Undergraduate Research Libraries Pre-Health Advising and Mentoring Toppel Career Center Campus Life With exceptional dining options and residential halls, a bounty of social, cultural and academic activities, sporting venues, an easy-to-traverse campus with shuttle service and a myriad of parking options, the University of Miami is home away from home, a place where students who live on or commute to campus can stretch their comfort zones and expand their horizons. Dean of Students Arts and Culture Student Health Wellness and Recreation Dining Services Housing and Residential Life Orientation Parking and Transportation Rathskeller Spiritual Life Student Activities Student Center Complex Student Involvement Our mission is developing future leaders and we offer unlimited opportunities for involvement, leadership, and personal exploration. With an active Student Government, more than 40 service organizations, 270-plus clubs, a student-operated newspaper, radio station, and other media, nearly three dozen fraternities and sororities, it’s impossible not to be engaged in enriching civic and community life—and yourself. Student Government Civic and Community Engagement Greek Life Multicultural Student Affairs LGBTQ Student Center Student Organizations IBIS News Volunteer Service and Leadership Development Green U University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback