Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search International Students You are here Home Students International Students Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Welcome to Temple University, international Owls! We are so excited to welcome you as you start your journey at Temple University. While this year presents a new challenge, our international community and the larger Temple community are so excited that you will be joining us this spring. As a new international student, you should have received multiple communications from both the International Student Affairs (ISA) office and the International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) office. However, we ask that you please read through the information here and then reach out to us if you have any questions. Peer2Peer Mentoring Program All new international students are encouraged to apply to the Peer2Peer Mentoring Program! New students will be matched with leaders in small communities that meet weekly. The program provides support as you successfully transition to life at Temple and is a great way to learn more about Temple’s resources, build supportive relationships with other Temple Owls and explore Philadelphia together. Sign up today “The advice I would give new students about getting involved is to take any opportunities that present themselves. Leadership positions help you gain confidence, responsibility and communication skills.” Cristina Prats, Spain, CLA '21 Contact Us International Student & Scholar Services ISSS assists incoming and current students and scholars in navigating the visa process and maintaining their status during their stay in the U.S. ISSS manages all documentation related to maintaining your status as an international student in the U.S. and provides assistance with CPT and OPT processes as well. Visit their website for more information or contact ISSS@temple.edu with any questions. International Student Affairs ISA is dedicated to serving all current international students through a variety of transition programs and services to aid with students’ academic success, social and cultural adjustment. Additionally, the office provides programming and engagement opportunities that promote cross-cultural understanding, serves as a liaison and advocate for our international students across campus, and fosters international student leadership opportunities. Visit their website for more information or contact INTL@temple.edu with any questions. Health Insurance Requirements/Immunizations All international students are required to have adequate health insurance coverage for the duration of their studies. Read more about the requirements and how to enroll in the Temple sponsored health insurance plan here. If you are enrolled in a plan outside of Temple University, you must fill out the waiver via your Next Steps on TUportal. For clarification on how to enroll in Temple’s plan or how to complete the waiver form indicating you are enrolled in an external insurance plan, please contact studentinsurance@temple.edu. Immunizations are required for all incoming students. Immunization records must be in English or accompanied by an English translation. Visit Temple’s Student Health Services website for more information and to complete the online immunization form. COVID-19 Vaccination Protect yourself and others throughout the duration of your study in the U.S. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccines at Temple. Airport Pick-up Services For information about airport pick-up services, please reach out to the ISA office at intl@temple.edu or complete a request form here. Resources for International Students Off-Campus Housing Airport Transportation & SEPTA Visit Philadelphia Campus Philly Hotels & Accommodations Banking Places of Worship Temple’s COVID-19 Response Student Health Services Campus Safety Bursar’s Office OWL Card Diamond Dollars Questions? If you have any questions about the information provided here, need more information about the Welcome sessions listed, or want to get connected to us or to other international students, please contact the Office of International Student Affairs at intl@temple.edu. Go back to StudentsMore in Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.