Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple Together You are here Home Temple Together Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Temple Together is an interactive initiative that helps students define success for themselves and explore their interests. In partnership with Suitable, Temple Together provides a gateway into events and activities across campuses, in the schools and colleges, and throughout our various global communities. There are five key themes within Temple Together. Commitment to learning Professional exploration Diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice Collaboration and community building Health and well-being Temple Together Badges At the start of the spring 2022 semester, here are the badges that will be available. The Convocation Badge Convocation is the beginning of the academic journey for you as a new student. Your Temple experience begins with this badge that introduces you to people, courses, activities and places on campus and in the community. Dive in and get acquainted. The New Student Badge Starting off at a new school can be challenging. There are so many different opportunities; where to begin? The new student badge is designed to introduce you to some of those opportunities to get you started—how to get involved with student groups, how to navigate the library, how to support diversity in our community and how to focus on your well-being. As a new student, we want to be sure that you are aware of all that Temple University has to offer you beyond your classes. Welcome to the nest and enjoy getting to know your new home! The Career Starter Badge The career starter badge is designed to get you connected with career services in ways that will be most helpful in your first year at Temple University. You can select the activities that interest you as you work to complete the badge in a few different categories. There is so much you can do as a new student at Temple to set you up for career success! Fox Leadership Development Program The Fox Leadership Development Program (FLDP), is a co-curricular engagement program designed to help you find and participate in activities on campus, throughout the region, and beyond! Read more about the FLDP. How will this help me? Part of the Temple student experience is engaging in these key themes of development—regardless of major—to help you grow throughout your time here. This goes beyond the specific knowledge in the classroom and helps you to become more well-rounded and prepared to meet the challenges ahead, whether those are in the workforce or graduate school. How does it work? Start your Temple Together journey by reviewing the badges available to you and the different activities for each badge in Suitable. Suitable is an interactive platform accessed via a mobile app or website. It allows users to access events and activities and earn points toward badges. The level determines how many points an activity is worth. Completing activities will earn you points or progress toward earning each badge. You can view your progress in each badge as you work your way through it. Visit Site Visit Temple Together Students can find information on how to access Suitable and the available badges through TUportal. Visit Site Visit Temple Together For questions about the Temple Together initiative contact templetogether@temple.edu. Go Back HomeMore in Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.