Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Parents and Families You are here Home Parents and Families Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Welcome to the Temple family! Congratulations on your student’s decision to attend Temple! Families play such an important role in our students’ success. We want you to know that we value your partnership and that we look forward to working together to help your student succeed. Temple Parent and Family Programs partners with parents, families and support systems to ensure all students succeed from their first year to graduation. We provide opportunities for parents and families to engage with their students, faculty and staff, as well as other family members. If your student is a Temple Owl, that means you’re part of the Temple family too! Advice from the Temple Family Council Your student’s new beginning at Temple is a transition for the entire family. Our Temple Family Council shares their experience as Temple family members and their advice for you as your student starts their first semester at Temple. David Barrist Lafayette Hill, PA “Temple is a BIG university. Much like Philadelphia itself, Temple is comprised of hundreds of small clubs and organizations within the large university umbrella. Try EVERYTHING; sports, clubs, social groups, etc. Get involved and create your neighborhood.” Martha Dixon Lancaster, PA "My advice to new families is to communicate! This will entail learning your student’s new language; their new method of communicating as an independent young adult. Find what keeps you connected and embrace it!” Laura Vetter Millstone Township, New Jersey “My favorite part of Temple is knowing that when my student is on campus she feels safe, feels at home and is an active part of her community. My advice for new families is to become familiar with the Temple campus and learn the history of the school. Be an active participant in your Owl’s education without being the leader.” Stay Connected Parent and Family Experience Portal Stay involved with your student and connect to Temple by joining our Parent and Family Experience Portal. This interface is an easy way to stay up-to-date with university news, important deadlines that impact your student, events and activities. Within the Parent and Family Experience Portal, you will find an Orientation Hub. The hub provides you with a comprehensive overview and FAQ’s from the important offices and resources at Temple. You can also watch a series of recorded webinars that focus on topics such as student safety and responsibility, academic life, and student involvement. Log in or sign up Apply for the Temple Family Council The Temple Family Council is a group of diverse, highly dedicated Temple family members who volunteer their time and knowledge to enhance the Temple student and family experience. You can learn more about the Temple Family Council’s objectives and eligibility requirements here. Applications for new members will open via the Parent and Family Experience Portal by the end of September. Follow New Student and Family Programs on Facebook and Instagram. View guide Parent and Family Guide Helpful information about your student's college experience View guide Parent and Family Guide Go Back HomeMore in Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.