Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search New Students You are here Home Students New Students Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events To our newest Owls, welcome to the Temple family! We are here to provide the information you need before getting started and reassure you that you’ll have access to the support you need to have a successful first semester. Temple Together Temple Together is an interactive initiative that helps students define success for themselves and explore their interests. In partnership with Suitable, Temple Together provides a gateway into events and activities across campuses, in the schools and colleges and throughout our various global communities. Several badges will be available to new students at the start of the spring 2022 semester. Read More Meet Your Fellow Owls Sofía Gabaldón Class of 2023, History and Spanish “My biggest pieces of advice for new students would be to make their college experience their own because no two Owls are the same. Also, ask for help when you need it! Temple has so many resources but it's up to you to take the first step.” Kat Naessens Class of 2022, Communication Studies “I would encourage all incoming and current Temple students to take advantage of all of the wonderful resources that are right at your fingertips. Everything that Temple provides is for all of us, from day one and beyond! From campus partners, to people, and all other services offered, Temple has something that can benefit all of us in the long run if we seek it out.” Hannah Whitty Class of 2023, Psychology “Never be afraid to reach out for help. There are Temple Owls all over who are happy to help you! Every single student worker and professional at Temple will guide you in the right direction.” Go back to StudentsMore in Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.