Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home About UM Community Engagement AAA 'Canes in the Community UM students love to beautify neighborhoods with hard work and creativity. Our mission is to educate and nurture students, to create knowledge, and to provide service to our community and beyond. With that in mind, we invite you to enjoy our many programs that offer the best of our intellectual, research and cultural contributions to our South Florida community. Coral Gables Residents Find out about upcoming events and offerings designed especially for our Coral Gables neighbors. This special programming is part of our Development Agreement with the City. Past events have included lectures by Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, the Dalai Lama His Holiness Tenzin Gyatso, Admiral Michael G. Mullen, and a concert by the United States Marine Band. Information for Coral Gables Neighbors Herbert Wellness Center Community Programs Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Arts and Culture at UM Bringing together talented students and a faculty of highly-regarded professional artists, art historians, and performers, the University of Miami plays home to some of South Florida's most cherished and inspirational cultural events. UM Arts and Culture Frost School of Music Bill Cosford Cinema Lowe Art Museum Jerry Herman Ring Theatre Library Programs Watsco Center Community Events Get a quick glance of a wide spectrum of events and activities taking place throughout the University of Miami. For printable PDFs of all academic holidays, scheduled closures, and academic deadlines, click here. 'Canes Calendar: All Events 'Canes Calendar: Arts and Culture Health and Wellness Each year thousands of patients come to University of Miami Health System (UHealth) for specialized medical care and UHealth doctors are recognized among the nation’s most respected. Patients receive care in top-ranked facilities including our flagship University of Miami Hospital as well as our specialty hospitals Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center. UHealth System UHealth Coral Gables Herbert Wellness Center Dolphins Cancer Challenge Economic Impact A leading research university making extraordinary contributions to enhance opportunity, expand knowledge, and serve society, the University of Miami also is a major economic engine in the local and tri-county region. Economic Impact Report Economic Impact Report Fact Sheet Civic and Community Engagement Many University of Miami programs and academic resources fuel the enrichment of civic and community life in the local, national, and global communities. Office of Civic and Community Engagement Community Service: Butler Center for Service and Leadership Converge Miami Green U University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback