Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search RELATED LINKS Printable Coral Gables Campus Map Coral Gables Bike Rack Map Coral Gables Campus Accessibility Map Gender Neutral and Inclusive Restrooms Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home About UM Campuses Coral Gables Campus Map and Directions AAA Coral Gables Map and Directions RELATED LINKS Printable Coral Gables Campus Map Coral Gables Bike Rack Map Coral Gables Campus Accessibility Map Gender Neutral and Inclusive Restrooms Directions All routes below lead to the Pavia Parking Garage on the Coral Gables Campus. If you park in Pavia, it’s an easy walk to the Office of Admissions Building. More information on parking can be found on our Parking and Transportation website. From Miami International Airport Take LeJeune Road south to Ponce De Leon Boulevard. Turn right on Ponce De Leon and travel about 1 mile to Stanford Drive, main entrance to UM. Stop at the entrance gate for directions to the Pavia Parking Garage or continue on, turning left from Stanford onto Levante Avenue, then right onto Pavia. The garage is on your left. Google Satellite Map/Directions From Fort Lauderdale Hollywood International Airport Take 595 West, which connects with I-95 South. Take I-95 South, which becomes U.S. 1. Continue about 5 miles. Turn right on Stanford Drive, main entrance to UM. Stop at the entrance gate for directions to the Pavia Parking Garage or continue on, turning left from Stanford onto Levante Avenue, then right onto Pavia. The garage is on left. Google Satellite Map/Directions From I-95 North Head south on 95, which becomes U.S. 1 (South Dixie Highway). Stay on U.S. 1 for about 5 miles to the UM campus. Turn right on Stanford Drive, main entrance to UM. Stop at the entrance gate for directions to the Pavia Parking Garage or continue on, turn left from Stanford onto Levante Avenue, then right on Pavia. The garage is on your left. Google Satellite Map/Directions From the Florida Turnpike Take the turnpike to Bird Road (SW 40th Street). Head east on Bird Road to Red Road (SW 57th Street). Turn right onto Red Road and continue onto Miller Road (SW 56 Street).Make left turn and continue until you reach San-Amaro Drive. Make right turn continue until you reach Ponce-De Leon. Make left turn on to Ponce continue until you reach Stanford Drive (Main Entrance). You will be making a left turn onto campus. Google Satellite Map/Directions From I-75 Take I-75 to the 826 West exit. 826 West turns into 826 South; continue on 826 South until the Miller Drive exit (SW 56 Street). Head east on Miller to Red Road (SW 57 Avenue). Turn right onto Red Road and continue to Ponce de Leon Boulevard. Turn left on Ponce and go to Stanford Drive, UM’s main entrance. Stop at the entrance gate for directions to the Pavia Parking Garage or continue on, turning left from Stanford onto Levante Avenue, then right on Pavia. The garage is on your left. Google Satellite Map/Directions University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback