Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Find Your Place You are here Home Students Find Your Place Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events You’re officially an Owl and one thing Owls never are is bored. Getting involved—whether that means joining a club with a cause you’re passionate about, trying something totally new, or building professional skills and connections—is how to make the most out of your college experience. Get involved. Temple has over 300 registered student organizations! Of these organizations, there are over 40 student organization that are cultural or identity-based. Student Activities aims to connect students with diverse student organizations to maximize their experience in an inclusive environment. Visit OwlConnect Embrace our diversity. The Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL) embodies Temple University's commitment to sustain and nurture a strong inclusive campus community. Explore Cultural Organizations Give back. Volunteering is a great way for you to get to know your neighbors and community partners, apply your skills, and serve in a meaningful way. Temple offers many opportunities for students, alumni, faculty and staff members to participate in community service projects that fit your interests and passions. Become a Volunteer Get a jump start on your career. The Career Center is a central resource that builds collaborative relationships among the Temple community, and empowers students and alumni through comprehensive career development services, driving successful careers. Visit the Career Center Connect with your school or college. Few universities can match the wide range of educational choices that Temple boasts. Each of our 17 schools and colleges offers an abundance of courses and majors to inspire and challenge you. View all Schools and Colleges Connect with your religious group. No matter the religion, Philadelphia is filled with places to worship. Faith and spirituality can provide a great deal of comfort and support to students. There are many diverse faiths on Temple’s University campus and surrounding community. It is important to be respectful of other's beliefs. Find Places to Worship Temple Lingo Brush up on your Temple lingo. Here is a helpful list of common words, acronyms and phrases used at Temple that you may hear around campus. Student Glossary Go back to StudentsMore in Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.