Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Schools and Colleges Art & Architecture Business & Management Dentistry Education & Human Development Engineering Environmental Design Law Liberal Arts Media & Communication Medicine Music & Dance Pharmacy Podiatric Medicine Public Health Science & Technology Social Work Theater, Film & Media Arts Sport, Tourism & Hospitality Management Temple.edu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Housing Financial Aid Campus Life Giving Explore Temple University Welcome to Temple Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Weeks of Welcome You are here Home Weeks of Welcome Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students New Students Transfer Students International Students Find Your Place Parents and Families Events Happy New Year Owls! Get ready for Weeks of Welcome (WOW): Spring Edition, as we have over 20 programs planned to help you meet new people, get involved, and get reacclimated to campus! Phillip R. Smith, Director of Student Activities Explore OwlConnect OwlConnect The online hub for over 300 student organizations on Temple’s campus. Explore OwlConnect OwlConnect student organization portal Has taxonomy term - Any -AlumniBioengineeringBoyer College of Music and DanceCampus RecreationCenter for the Performing and Cinematic ArtsCollege of EngineeringCollege of Science and TechnologyDean of StudentsEducation AbroadInstitutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL)Klein College of Media and CommunicationNew Student and Family ProgramsOffice of SustainabilityOffice of the ProvostStudent ActivitiesStudent AffairsTemple Student GovernmentTemple University Ambler CampusWellness Resource Center Advice from your fellow Owls Bradley Smutek ’22 Major: History "Getting involved is crucial to your success in college, so you must be willing to take risks and put yourself out there. It may feel intimidating at first, but Temple is the place to find your voice. Allow yourself to grow and learn, and you will thrive." Shanelle Robinson ’22 Major: Human Development and Community Engagement "Welcome Week is an excellent opportunity for students to connect on campus, and explore different interests. This year will be especially exciting as it will be in person, and full of fun and exciting events. I look forward to welcoming new and returning students to campus!" Connect with the Temple community Get Involved How can being involved in college benefit me? Make friends As a new college student, you may find it hard to make new friends. Don’t worry, your new college community is not as scary as it might seem. Joining clubs, Greek life or other organizations are great ways to meet new people who have similar interests. Who knows, you may meet your new best friend at a college-sponsored activity! Leadership opportunities As you become more involved in clubs and organizations at college, you might want to take on a more significant role and apply or volunteer for a leadership position. Taking on a leadership role not only may help prepare you for future jobs but also teach you good leadership skills such as how to work with and motivate others. Leadership opportunities may be available in student government, tutoring and even by starting your own club. Build your resume Being involved in college can also add to your resume. Any activities you include can show future employers, graduate schools, and others that you have time management skills, various interests, talents outside the classroom and initiative to create new experiences. Make sure to highlight your clubs, organizations, and extracurricular activities on your resume. Some great ways to build your resume include writing for your college newspaper, joining student government or volunteering at a nonprofit organization. Time management When you join a club or student organization, you may have various responsibilities, including attending meetings and events. Combine your club responsibilities with your coursework and other activities, and you are likely going to be a very busy person. Make sure to manage your time wisely and be careful about over-committing. Reduce stress Getting involved on campus, although time-consuming, provides a break from schoolwork, may help alleviate stress, and makes college more enjoyable and balanced. College students who are involved in activities are more likely to feel a sense of belonging and adjust more easily to college life. Getting involved can also expand your circle of friends, another enjoyable part of college life that can help reduce stress. Discover new interests You’ll be surprised by how much you change during your transition from high school to college, especially your interests and hobbies! Getting involved in clubs and activities might help you identify new interests and strengths and help you select a major and a career path. Consider different clubs that spark your interest, like the concrete canoe team or the Quidditch club (see How to Get Involved in College for more information about these and other clubs). Create connections College is the perfect time to focus on creating important connections that could even benefit you in the “real world.” The friendships and connections you make at college might lead to something great: summer internship or job; an experience that helps you decide on a major or career path; or a reference when it comes time to apply for a course, job or graduate school. Just remember: It is your responsibility to look for those resources and make the connections. Source: https://www.collegedata.com/resources/campus-life/being-involved-in-college-how-can-it-benefit-me Get Involved Find your people, find your place Learn how to spend your time as an Owl growing personally and professionally. Through our many clubs and opportunities, you can connect with your culture and identity, discover the experiences of others, and understand how becoming a global citizen prepares you for your future. Get Involved opportunities to connect at Temple Go Back HomeMore in Weeks of Welcome Temple Together Students Parents and Families Events Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Welcome to Temple 1801 N. Broad StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.