Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home UHealth AAA UHealth We are revolutionizing how we deliver personalized health care. Each space in The Lennar Foundation Medical Center is intuitively planned, imaginatively designed and instinctively positioned to treat, heal, enhance and soothe you, while awakening your senses. Physicians in the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery are among the world’s leaders in performing the latest procedures and techniques and are always on the cutting-edge of technology, they also train other surgeons in the latest techniques. For the 20th time, the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine’s Bascom Palmer Eye Institute has been ranked the nation’s best in ophthalmology by U.S. News & World Report. The University of Miami Health System delivers leading-edge patient care by the region's best doctors, powered by the groundbreaking research and medical education of the University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine. As South Florida's only university system, UHealth is a vital component of the community. UHealth combines patient care, research, and education to create a front-line approach to health care. Within the UHealth system, patients can participate in clinical trials and benefit from the latest developments that are fast-tracked from the laboratory to the bedside. UHealth's comprehensive network includes three hospitals, more than 30 outpatient facilities in Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, and Collier counties, with more than 1,200 physicians and scientists. Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center has been the cancer brand for the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. As the only university-based cancer center in South Florida, Sylvester has transformed cancer research and treatment in South Florida and beyond. View Cancers we treat Bascom Palmer Eye Institute For the 20th time, the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine’s Bascom Palmer Eye Institute has been ranked the nation’s best in ophthalmology by U.S. News & World Report. Bascom Palmer has been in the top two since the publication began surveying U.S. physicians for its annual rankings. View eye conditions we treat UHealth Tower The 560-bed facility is the region’s first university-owned, multi-specialty, acute care hospital and the flagship facility of UHealth – University of Miami Health System. Find a doctor University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback