Open Mobile Nav Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics UM Home Athletics AAA Athletics Since Miami football reached national prominence in the early 1980's, no program in the country has won as many national championships as the Hurricanes. The Hurricanes have a rich history of earning conference and national honors, both on and off the pitch. Five members of the University of Miami baseball team were named to the 2021 All-ACC Academic Team. Miami’s five honorees put the Hurricanes in a five-way tie for third-most selections among the 14 baseball programs in the conference. Estela Perez-Somarriba, clinched ITA Senior Player of the Year & National Player of the Year accolades. This is the fourth time in the last 16 full seasons a Hurricane has placed first in the final rankings. No other school has even had two first-place finishers during that stretch. The University of Miami’s Department of Intercollegiate Athletics is dedicated to developing and supporting its student-athletes in their efforts to achieve personal, academic and athletic excellence, resulting in the highest standards of achievement. Through its programs, the department will provide a foundation which prepares student-athletes for future success. Sports The Miami Hurricanes are part of the Coastal Division of the Atlantic Coast Conference and field 17 varsity sports. Football Baseball Men's Basketball Women's Basketball Swimming and Diving Track and Field Volleyball Soccer Fan Central Be part of the action by following our robust multimedia platforms and find the gear you need in our online store. The U is #BuildingChampions! Tickets Shop Mobile App Apple TV Hurricanes Gameday Wallpapers Email Subscription Become a UM Student-Athlete One of the top private higher education institutions in the country, the University of Miami is committed to making sure its student-athletes have the resources and programs they need to succeed, both on and off the field. Annual Report Student Athlete Handbook Compliance Facilities Recruiting History UM Sports Hall of Fame University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback