Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Open Mobile Nav University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Toggle navigation Search Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Academics Admissions Student Life U Miami Home Research UHealth Athletics Hurricane Sports Athletics Home Videos Mobile App Hurricane Club It's All About the U! University of Miami student-athletes continued their strong work in the classroom this past year, posting a Graduation Success Rate (GSR) of 92 percent, the second-best mark in school history. Buy Tickets Shop UHealth Facilities University of Miami Health System Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center UHealth Tower The Lennar Foundation Medical Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute About UHealth The University of Miami Health System delivers leading-edge patient care by the region's best doctors, powered by the groundbreaking research and medical education of the University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine. Request an Appointment Find a Doctor Find a Location Research and Scholarship Office of the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research and Scholarship Our diverse community of scholars and students is bettering the world in every discipline, from architecture to marine zoology. With 11 colleges and schools, dozens of centers and institutes, and more than $380 million in sponsored research, the U is a research powerhouse. Research Lifecycle Cores and Facilities Centers and Institutes Student Life at the U Set one foot on campus and you'll feel a vibe that celebrates life, learning, and daily activities that are anything but routine. Student Resources Student Affairs Academic Resources Wellness and Recreation Toppel Career Center Orientation Study Abroad Life on Campus Arts and Culture at UM Housing and Residential Life Campus Dining Emergency Preparedness Campus Safety Student Involvement Student Organizations Volunteer Service Green U Civic Engagement Undergraduate Majors and Programs First-Year Transfer Visit Apply Graduate Graduate Programs School of Law School of Medicine Online Graduate Programs Costs and Finances Cost of Attendance Financial Assistance Scholarships Net Price Calculator International First Year Eligibility Requirements Language Proficiency More Applicant Resources Apply Now Continuing Education and Online Programs Division of Continuing and International Education UOnline Programs Frost Online (music) Pre-College Summer College Credit Program Summer Camps Intensive English Program APPLY NOW PLAN A VISIT REQUEST INFO LEARN MORE HURRICANE OUTREACH Libraries As a dynamic and integral part of the academic scholarly enterprise, the Libraries are central to the University’s mission to educate and nurture students, to create knowledge, and to provide service to our community and beyond. Schools and Colleges School of Architecture College of Arts and Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education and Human Development College of Engineering Schools and Colleges School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Academic Calendar Class Search Degrees and Programs Division of Continuing & International Education UOnline Programs Frost Online (music) Academic Resources Popular Resources: Academic Calendar | Office of the Registrar | Academic Records | International Scholar and Student Services Pause Slideshow Underwater photo contest winners announced From Indonesia to Illinois, more than 800 photos were submitted to the 2021 Underwater Photo Contest hosted by the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. Related Links Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Student pursues higher frontier in medicine Miller School of Medicine student Shilpi Ganguly wants to travel to the moon to help establish the first medical infrastructure for a permanent base on the moon. Related Links Miller School of Medicine Graduates and speakers stress the privilege of a college education At the University’s first of three undergraduate commencement ceremonies on Friday, speakers celebrated the ability of the undergraduates to excel despite the challenge of a global COVID-19 pandemic and pointed out their duty as role models. Related Links Special Report: 2022 Commencement Graduate commencement ceremonies celebrate more than 1,300 students During Thursday’s two events, speakers encouraged students to strengthen democracy and “make the choice to stand for others and for equity.” Related Links Livestream and Virtual Slides | Special Report: 2022 Commencement Special Report: 2022 Commencement Commencement exercises will take place from May 11 through May 13 at the Watsco Center. Seven ceremonies will celebrate more than 4,200 graduates. Related Links Livestream and Virtual Slides NEWS Students, alumni pursuing global studies Debate team wins second ACC championship Distinguished speakers to share wisdom with Class of 2022 MAY 31 THE ART OF MINDFULNESS JUN 3 BANKRUPTCY SKILLS WORKSHOP JUN 7 HURRICANE PREPAREDNESS TRAINING EVENTS NEWS MAY 31 THE ART OF MINDFULNESS JUN 3 BANKRUPTCY SKILLS WORKSHOP Students, alumni pursuing global studies Debate team wins second ACC championship Distinguished speakers to share wisdom with Class of 2022 EVENTS MAY 31 THE ART OF MINDFULNESS JUN 3 BANKRUPTCY SKILLS WORKSHOP JUN 7 HURRICANE PREPAREDNESS TRAINING More Events More News STUDENT STORIES APPLY NOW PLAN A VISIT REQUEST INFO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION Entrepreneur creates online magazine Rachel Keller’s Miss Miami magazine, recognized at the UDisrupt Women Empowerment Business Competitioin, focuses on college women. Ukraine historical structures being damaged during war Olha Khymytsia, a Ukrainian graduate student in the School of Architecture, is tracking damaged structures and wants to help her country rebuild. APPLY NOW PLAN A VISIT REQUEST INFO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION Entrepreneur creates online magazine Rachel Keller’s Miss Miami magazine, recognized at the UDisrupt Women Empowerment Business Competitioin, focuses on college women. Ukraine historical structures being damaged during war Olha Khymytsia, a Ukrainian graduate student in the School of Architecture, is tracking damaged structures and wants to help her country rebuild. APPLY NOW PLAN A VISIT REQUEST INFO UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION Entrepreneur creates online magazine Rachel Keller’s Miss Miami magazine, recognized at the UDisrupt Women Empowerment Business Competitioin, focuses on college women. Ukraine historical structures being damaged during war Olha Khymytsia, a Ukrainian graduate student in the School of Architecture, is tracking damaged structures and wants to help her country rebuild. U MIAMI ON: T F Y Y T F Y Y ALUMNI STORIES Young Alumni Leaders Council unveils 30 under 30 honorees for 2022 After a hiatus because of the pandemic, the young alumni program returned this year, recognizing a group who will impact the University’s future engagement and direction. ’Canes Communities celebrate return of two national programs More than 650 alumni nationwide turned this spring out to participate in ’Canes Day of Service and Global Networking Week. A mindful life Trae Williamson, Ph.D. ’20, is president of his family’s car dealership and part-time faculty member at Miami Herbert, giving him scope to illuminate mindfulness in all facets of life. Building and applying litigation skills Katie Phang, J.D. ’00, has built a stellar career as a litigator as well as legal analyst for NBC News. Her new show, “The Choice from MSNBC,” premiered in April 2022. Young Alumni Leaders Council unveils 30 under 30 honorees for 2022 After a hiatus because of the pandemic, the young alumni program returned this year, recognizing a group who will impact the University’s future engagement and direction. ’Canes Communities celebrate return of two national programs More than 650 alumni nationwide turned this spring out to participate in ’Canes Day of Service and Global Networking Week. A mindful life Trae Williamson, Ph.D. ’20, is president of his family’s car dealership and part-time faculty member at Miami Herbert, giving him scope to illuminate mindfulness in all facets of life. Building and applying litigation skills Katie Phang, J.D. ’00, has built a stellar career as a litigator as well as legal analyst for NBC News. Her new show, “The Choice from MSNBC,” premiered in April 2022. Young Alumni Leaders Council unveils 30 under 30 honorees for 2022 After a hiatus because of the pandemic, the young alumni program returned this year, recognizing a group who will impact the University’s future engagement and direction. ’Canes Communities celebrate return of two national programs More than 650 alumni nationwide turned this spring out to participate in ’Canes Day of Service and Global Networking Week. A mindful life Trae Williamson, Ph.D. ’20, is president of his family’s car dealership and part-time faculty member at Miami Herbert, giving him scope to illuminate mindfulness in all facets of life. Building and applying litigation skills Katie Phang, J.D. ’00, has built a stellar career as a litigator as well as legal analyst for NBC News. Her new show, “The Choice from MSNBC,” premiered in April 2022. EXPERIENCE U MIAMI Canopy within palm treesCanopies float among the palm trees on the Coral Gables Campus. - Submitted by: Mike Montero/University of Miami Lakeside VillageOpened to students in Fall 2020, Lakeside Village is a 12-acre village comprised of 25 interconnected buildings and a multitude of outdoor spaces including a grand courtyard, study spots, recreational spaces, and outdoor terraces. - Submitted by: Housing & Residential Life Sebastian the IbisA bronze statue of our mascot Sebastian the Ibis welcomes current and former students to the Newman Alumni Center. The sculpture was crafted by artist Patrick Flibotte and funded by alumnus Samuel H. Ballam, III, B.B.A. ’72. - Submitted by: TJ Lievonen/University of Miami Donna E. Shalala Student CenterThe 120,000-square-foot Donna E. Shalala Student Center is where students go to eat, study, attend events, meet up with friends, make things happen, and just relax. - Submitted by: Mike Montero/University of Miami F.G. Walton Smith research vesselThe F.G. Walton Smith research vessel sits on the bay at the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science. - Submitted by: Mike Montero/University of Miami ‘Fate’ Accompli“Hey, Mom. Want to build a bridge?” student Hannah Weese asked, half joking, But Elizabeth Grass Weese agreed, donating $1 million from the Grass Family Foundation to create the 210-foot Fate Bridge across Lake Osceola in memory of Hannah’s grandfather Alexander Grass, the Rite Aid founder. - Submitted by: Scott Fricker Relax on a RockerLush landscapes abound on the University's Coral Gables campus. - Submitted by: Mike Montero/University of Miami The Billy GoatDesigned and built by 13 UM architecture students during the fall 2014 semester, The Billy Goat, a mobile coffee kiosk, is open weekdays from 9:15 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Operated by School of Architecture students, the kiosk is named after goats that discovered coffee beans in ancient Ethiopia. - Submitted by: TJ Lievonen/University of Miami Endless Shades of SummerColorful foliage from more than 500 species of flora keeps the 239-acre Coral Gables campus looking festive and cool despite sizzling temperatures. - Submitted by: Scott Fricker/University of Miami The RathskellerSink the 8 ball or savor the mac 'n' cheese bites at The Rathskeller. - Submitted by: The University of Miami Magazine Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. SUSTAIN BuildingThe Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. SUSTAIN Building on the Marine Campus is capable of generating Category 5 hurricane-force winds in a 3D test environment. - Submitted by: Mike Montero/University of Miami Getting FitThe Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center, one of the nation’s largest, most comprehensive university-based fitness centers, houses an indoor lap pool, saunas, spinning and Pilates studios, kickboxing and Zumba classes, cooking instruction, racquetball and basketball courts, massages, and much more! - Submitted by: The University of Miami Magazine University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture UOnline Programs Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment DACA Information For the Media Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback