Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Small Group Training Fitness Assessments About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Fitness & Well-Being Fitness Assessments AAA Fitness Laboratory The Fitness Laboratory is a state-of-the-art lab designed to assess the physiological effects of exercise on the human body. (additional fee + membership not required) About the Fitness Lab The Fitness Laboratory provides scientific support to those striving to achieve improved performance, health and wellness. The lab provides testing, other assessments, and a consultation with a certified exercise physiologist who will interpret test data, provide tips on how to apply your results, and make your exercise/training program as successful as possible. Data from laboratory testing provides precise and accurate answers to the following questions: What is my body fat percentage? What is my “fat-burning” range? How many calories do I burn at rest? How many calories do I burn during exercise? What is my ideal target heart rate? How fit am I? Where do I stand compared to others my age? In addition, the lab allows us to track a client’s progress and offer them a “report card” regarding their exercise program. Fitness Laboratory Services Body Composition Using the highly accurate BOD-POD, we will measure your body fat mass and lean body mass. Excess body fat is associated with an increased risk of disease and may hinder athletic performance. This is the same protocol used to measure the body composition of the Miami Hurricane student-athletes.Time required: approximately 15-30 minutes. How to Prepare VO 2 Max (Maximal Oxygen Uptake) This maximal exercise test determines your rate of oxygen consumption, training heart rate zones, and ventilatory threshold. VO2 max testing is the gold standard for individuals who truly need specific heart rate training information (i.e. runners, tri-athletes). Time required: approximately 60 minutes. How to Prepare Resting Metabolic Rate Ever wonder exactly how many calories you need each day? Data collected from this 30-minute exam will provide you with information on your daily caloric requirements. A computerized report details exactly how many calories a day you need to fulfill your weight loss or weight gain goals. This information is critical for providing a sound weight-modification program. Time required: approximately 45-60 minutes. How to Prepare Basic Fitness Assessment A “fitness report card” is the best way to describe this assessment. This simple protocol will test cardiovascular fitness, body composition, muscular fitness, and health variables. Your results are compared to others of your age/gender and general exercise recommendations are provided to help you improve. Time required: approximately 60 minutes Registration Complete the Medical History Form. Be sure to choose the desired test then click submit. Your form will be automatically emailed to our staff. Your medical history form will be screened by our staff. Based on health history, some individuals may be required to get a signed physician's approval form. You will be contacted if a physician's approval is required. You will be contacted to schedule your test. Once scheduled you must pay for your test online or over the phone. Visit wellness.miami.edu to pay online or call the sales office at (305) 284-5433. Prior to your fitness lab appointment, be sure to thoroughly review and follow the test prep instructions for your test. Cancellations must be made at least 24 business hours in advance. Failure to cancel will result in a $10.00 administrative fee. Rates and Fees Student Member Non-Student Member Non-member Bod Pod $10 $35 $50 Basic Fitness Assessment Free (CHAMP) $45 $60 VO2 Max Test $50 $80 $110 Resting Metabolic Rate $30 $50 $70 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices