Skip to Content Wellness Initiative Open Close primary navigation Search Search Home Workshops and Programs Perks and OffersExpand Collapse section Active&Fit Direct™ Program Care@Work by Care.com Diabetes Management and Nutrition Resources Excellus BCBS Member Care Management Fitness Your Way WW (formerly Weight Watchers) Wellness Champion NetworkExpand Collapse section Wellness Champions Roles and Responsibilities Current Wellness Champions and Contact Info Wellness Champion Toolkit Healthy CampusExpand Collapse section Barnes Center at the Arch The Couple and Family Therapy Center Ergonomic Workstations Healthy Habits at Work Meditation and Stress Reduction Move it Monday & Monday Mile CarebridgeExpand Collapse section Carebridge Benefits Summary CarebridgeCONNECTS Workplace Options International EAP Human ResourcesExpand Collapse section Financial Wellness Worklife Learning Opportunities Search Search Home Carebridge In this Section Carebridge Carebridge recently expanded its network of counselors providing telephonic and video sessions, as well as a telehealth platform. With these additional counseling resources, Carebridge is able to maintain continued support to faculty and staff. Visit the In-Person and Telehealth Counseling Information page for more details. Syracuse University is committed to the total well-being of our community and to providing support and services to help you and your loved ones manage challenges at work and at home. The full suite of Carebridge’s comprehensive services and resources offer integrated, accessible, confidential support. Licensed, credentialed counselors are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year by calling Carebridge at 800.437.0911 (TTY:711). Eligibility Link All members of the University community eligible to participate in the University’s medical plan, including benefits-eligible faculty and staff, retirees, and their dependents. Cost and Confidentiality Link There is no cost to you or your dependents to use the benefit. All Carebridge services are completely confidential (some exceptions apply). Counselor Certification Link Most Carebridge providers have 15 – 20 years of clinical experience. Carebridge Providers adhere to stringent industry qualifications, including; Masters Degree directly relating to consultative work, minimum of 5 years of direct clinical practice and State Licensure or Certification at the highest level in areas in which the provider practices. How It Works Link Get in contact with Carebridge. Call Carebridge for free, confidential assistance 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 800.437.0911 (TTY:711). You will be welcomed to Carebridge services by a member of their administrative team. You will be asked to provide some brief demographic information. Tell Carebridge about your concern. You will be asked to identify how Carebridge can be of service. You will then be transferred to speak with a Master’s Level Clinician or a WorkLife Specialist in the area of your concern. The clinician or worklife specialist will listen to your concern, provide consultation, information, resources and referrals. Feel secure that the services you receive are confidential. Your privacy is important. No names are identified of reported to anyone without your written authorization except in the following situations: by court order, imminent threat or harm to self or other, or situations of abuse (such as child or elder abuse). Carebridge Benefits Summary Page Seeking employee assistance services in our global community? Link Please see Workplace Options International EAP. If you need help, please call Carebridge at 800.437.0911 (TTY:711). Carebridge counselors may be reached 24/7 for a confidential consultation, assessment, referrals, and counseling. If you are in crisis, please call Carebridge now. If you have immediate safety concerns, please call 911 or go to your closest hospital emergency room. In this Section Carebridge: In-Person and Telehealth Counseling Information Carebridge: Personal Life Coaching Workplace Options International EAP Carebridge Benefits Summary CarebridgeCONNECTS © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy