Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes UM Wellness App Mission Our Team Contact Us Membership Membership Fees SHAPE-UP Student Employment Leave a Suggestion Give Hours and Location Policies and Procedures & Minor Consent Form About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home About Us Membership AAA Membership Select a Location Herbert Wellness Center Outdoor Adventures Herbert Wellness Center Membership Fees UM Students Full-time undergraduate, graduate, and day law students are assessed a $163 per semester Herbert Wellness Center fee. Part-time students may purchase a membership to the Herbert Wellness Center for $163 per semester. University of Miami students who are registered for at least one credit during the semester are eligible for membership to the Herbert Wellness Center. The fee varies each academic year. The Herbert Wellness Center fee is mandatory for full-time undergraduate, MD and day law students. The fee is automatically charged to full-time graduate students. Graduate students who would like to waive the fee must do so through CaneLink prior to the deadline posted in CaneLink (varies per semester). Fee waivers will not be processed for graduate students who fail to meet the waiver deadline. Part-time students may elect to have the Herbert Wellness Center fee charged to their student account via CaneLink. Medical students and graduate students on the Miller School of Medicine are assessed a fee by the UHealth Fitness & Wellness Center. Student Summer Membership Students enrolled in summer classes may add the wellness fee to their account via CaneLink or purchase a membership in the Sales Office. Students not enrolled in summer classes, but continuing in the fall semester, may purchase a summer membership in the Sales Office. SHAPE-UP (UM Employees Only) SHAPE-UP is an incentive program designed to encourage the development of a healthy lifestyle through participation in fitness and wellness programs. Full-time and and regular part-time UM faculty and staff are eligible to earn a 20% rebate on the cost of a membership. Click here for more information. UM Employees and Retirees Note: Faculty and staff of the Miller School of Medicine must join the UHealth Fitness and Wellness Center at the Miller School of Medicine but have membership reciprocity at the Herbert Wellness Center. 1 Month 2-3 Months 4-12 Months Single $48 $44 $39 Member +1 $84 $80 $75 Family $120 $116 $111 Recent Alumni (Within one year of graduation) 1 Month 2-3 Months 4-12 Months Single $44 $40 $36 Member +1 $80 $76 $72 Family $116 $112 $108 Alumni, Trustees/Donors, Citizen Board Members 1 Month 2-3 Months 4-12 Months Single $53 $49 $44 Member +1 $89 $85 $80 Family $125 $121 $116 Additional Services 1 Month 2-12 Months Locker Rental $8 $8 Towel Service $8 $5.50 Daily Locker Free Free All rates listed above are on a per-month basis. Ready to Join? Visit the sales office located on the second floor of the Herbert Wellness Center. The sales office is open Monday – Friday from 7:30 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. and is closed on official University holidays. Membership Verification You must be able to prove eligibility based on your membership category: Employee: Full- and part-time regular UM faculty and staff. Adjunct faculty must provide a letter from their department chair or dean verifying current teaching status. Current UM ‘Cane Card required. Alumni: UM graduate or member of the UM Alumni Association (UMAA). Must have completed 15 credits at UM to join the UMAA. Copy of UM diploma or UM Alumni Association membership card and a photo ID required. Recent Alumni: Receive a special membership rate for the 12-month period following the date of graduation. Copy of UM diploma or UM Alumni Association membership card and a photo ID required. Trustee/Citizens Board: Member of the UM Board of Trustees or Citizens Board. Current UM 'Cane Card or Citizens Board membership card and a photo ID required. Retiree: Retired UM employee or professor emeritus with a valid UM retiree ‘Cane Card. Spouse/Domestic Partner: Legal spouse of a University student, faculty, staff, retiree, alumnus, trustee, or Citizens Board member. Photo ID, such as a driver’s license or passport, is required. If the last name is not the same as the primary member, then a copy of the marriage certificate is required. Domestic partners may also join by completing a Verification of Domestic Partnership form at the Sales Office. Photo ID is required. Individual memberships must be purchased before a spouse or domestic partner can join. Dependent: Unmarried dependent children 26 years of age or younger who are financially dependent and living at home or away at school. Note: children under 13 years of age must enter and remain with the parent or guardian while in the center. Children under 16 years of age are not allowed in the Parsons Fitness Room. Birth certificate, driver’s license, or state of Florida ID card required. If dependent child’s last name is not the same as the primary member, then a copy of the member’s marriage certificate or court papers proving adoption or legal guardianship is also required. Member +1: Individual member and a spouse or dependent as defined above. Family Membership: Families consisting of three or more qualifying individuals may purchase this membership. Note: Misrepresenting your affiliation with the University of Miami to obtain membership will result in immediate termination of membership without refund. Guest Policy Guest passes can be purchased at $10 per pass or $7.50 for ten or more passes. Reciprocity UM students and full-time employees, along with their spouses and dependents, who have membership to the Herbert Wellness Center also have access to the UHealth Fitness and Wellness Center located at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. Note: Faculty and staff of the Miller School of Medicine must join the UHealth Fitness and Wellness Center at the Miller School of Medicine but have membership reciprocity at the Herbert Wellness Center. Fee-based programs and services are not transferable between facilities. Cancellations Member agrees and understands that cancellation requests must be received by the Customer Service Manager at least 30 days in advance. Additional deductions may be required to fulfill the member’s financial obligation to the Herbert Wellness Center. Outdoor Adventures Membership Fees UM Students All currently enrolled students have access to Outdoor Adventures, with no membership fee. Employees taking classes are considered employees and are eligible for employee memberships. UM Employee Membership Fees Full-time and part-time UM employees are eligible to purchase an Outdoor Adventures Membership. At this time we do not offer memberships for dependents, spouse/domestic partners, or alumni. Membership Type Monthly Semester Faculty/Staff Climbing Wall Only $24 $88 Faculty/Staff Outdoor Adventures $34 $128 Note: Outdoor Adventures and Herbert Wellness Center memberships are separate fees. UM Alumni Membership Fees (Summer Only*) Membership Type Monthly Summer* Alumni Climbing Wall Only $30 $90 *May 16 – August 13, 2022 Housing & Residence Life | Wellness & Recreation Partnership Outdoor Adventures is a partnership between the Department of Housing & Residence Life and the Department of Wellness & Recreation. Outdoor Adventures is managed by Wellness & Recreation but funded by Housing & Residence Life. Herbert Wellness Center membership does not include Outdoor Adventures because the fees paid for membership do not contribute to Outdoor Adventures funding. Ready to Join? Contact Outdoor Adventures at adventures@miami.edu or 305-284-5116. Membership Types Climbing Wall Only: Provides access to only the climbing/bouldering wall. Outdoor Adventures: Provides access to the climbing/bouldering wall, discounted rental prices, and instructional clinic offerings. No Membership Rentals: Outdoor Adventures gear rentals are available to current faculty & staff regardless of Outdoor Adventures membership. Faculty & staff without membership pay a higher rental price. Prices for both categories are listed on the Gear Rentals page. Guest Policy Members may bring guests with them to use the Outdoor Adventures Climbing Wall. The guest and members must present themselves at the Climbing Wall desk. The member must be present to sign the guest in. Guests may be asked to complete a waiver and the climbing orientation each visit. Guests may not rent gear. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices