Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Menu Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Mental Health We’re here to connect you to the care you need. In a life-threatening emergency, always call 911. At the UW Counseling Center, every single member of our team dedicates their working hours (and often our waking hours!) to seeking ways to enhance the UW Student Community’s access to wellness resources within and beyond UW. We strive to create a safe environment for students to explore and overcome challenges connected to life and learning. Through innovative programs and partnerships we aim to deliver on our commitment to support our student community so UW feels less overwhelming and more inspiring! Our multidisciplinary mental health team is dedicated to practicing through an inclusive and anti-oppressive lens that affirms the needs of those who are frequently marginalized by mainstream mental health practices. Because UW should be challenging, not overwhelming! Statement of Solidarity in Response to Domestic Terrorism in Buffalo Words are wholly inadequate every time this occurs. Yet we cannot remain silent in the face of persistent domestic terrorism, racist violence, and an epidemic of death in the U.S., our land of highly selective liberty. Our hearts go out to all who are directly impacted by Buffalo’s mass shooting, and to all who feel even more vigilant and even less trusting today. Let us all examine ways we are affected by the ideology of white supremacy, from more blatant ways (perpetuating myths such as “white replacement”) to more subtle ways (numbing ourselves). In times like these, white supremacy benefits from Black bodies being dysregulated and from white bodies being numb. Therefore, we encourage Black bodies to take time to do what helps you regulate (e.g., be in community, rest, breathe). We also recognize the ways in which persistent acts of hatred impact non-Black indigenous communities and people of color who are navigating white supremacy. White supremacy as an ideology divides us and it is at moments like these that we are invited to bear witness to the suffering caused by white supremacy. We encourage everybody to seek out community in ways that reduce suffering. We invite you to visit our Culture of Care webpages for resources on anti-racism for Black individuals and communities, for non-Black individuals and communities of Color, and for white individuals and communities. This resource is intended to help the UW community, particularly faculty and staff, navigate important conversations about violence perpetrated against communities of color. In this resource guide, you will find strategies for fostering thoughtful and difficult conversations in light of emotionally- or politically-charged news as well as mental health resources for students who may need additional support during challenging times. Need urgent support? ……….Connect with 24/7 support ! UW partners with My SSP to give students access to same-day, confidential mental health and crisis intervention support, 24/7 and in multiple languages. There are several ways to connect: Phone: Call 1.866.775.0608 (If calling from outside the US or Canada, dial 001.416.380.6578). Online chat: Chat with a My SSP counselor on the My SSP website or on the My SSP app (Apple App Store | Google Play) We highly recommend that you download the My SSP app (Apple App Store | Google Play) to have the full range of services at your fingertips any time. UWCC also offers Counselors available for crisis support during the hours of 8-4p Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and 9-4 on Tuesday. I'm looking for One-on-One Support One-on-One Support Let’s Talk, medication management, one-time appointment, etc. See options for one-on-one support >> Ongoing Therapy Ongoing Therapy A list of ongoing counseling options in the greater Seattle region. View resources >> Workshops and Group Therapy Workshops and Group Therapy Workshops, group therapy, student organization, etc. See options for support in groups and communities >> Mental Health Resources Mental Health Resources Important information about a variety of mental health-related topics. View resources >> Population served Information for Faculty/Staff Parents Resource: Addressing emotionally- or politically-charged news with students This resource is intended to help the UW community, particularly faculty and staff, navigate important conversations about violence perpetrated against communities of color. In this resource guide, you will find strategies for fostering thoughtful and difficult conversations in light of emotionally- or politically-charged news as well as mental health resources for students who may need additional support during challenging times. Brought to you thanks to the Services & Activities Fee Other resources Virtual Let’s Talk Coping with COVID-related stress Now Matters Now Follow us Instagram Facebook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Many services featured on this website are funded by the UW Services and Activities Fee. © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA Need urgent help? Click for crisis services Crisis support US emergencies: Call 911 Click here for international emergencies SafeCampus: 206.685.7233 Open 24/7. Call if you have concerns about campus safety. My SSP (mental health support for UW students): 1.866.775.0608 Open 24/7. Online chat via My SSP website. You contact them to request a consultation with a counselor and they call you back the same day. Crisis Connections (Seattle-area mental health support): 866.427.4747 24-hour crisis line for people in the Seattle area. Call if you have concerns about urgent on- of off-campus mental health needs. On-campus support Hall Health 206.543.5030 Hall Health Center Counseling Center 206.543.1240 401 Schmitz Hall International support for students, faculty, and staff traveling abroad UW International Emergency Assistance