Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes fitness-and-wellness Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 Outdoor Adventures About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 AAA Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 The Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center is committed to providing our services in as safe an environment as possible while adhering to county guidelines regarding recreational facilities in addition to University-wide protocols. The University's COVID-19 Response Our Commitment to Safety Following guidance from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Miami-Dade County, and University of Miami experts in public health, below are the measures we are taking to slow the spread of COVID-19. Gym wipes, hand sanitizer, and disinfectants are available throughout the facility. Regular cleaning and disinfecting of restrooms, doors, handles, touch screens, etc. Fitness staff will continually clean the fitness equipment and monitor the Parsons Fitness Room to ensure safety protocols are followed by all users. Help Us Slow the Spread While we navigate the new normal, we request that our valued members follow additional guidelines while utilizing our facilities. In addition to the below guidelines, all non-student members must digitally sign the updated waiver. Masks are not required on the Coral Gables Campus. Individuals who wish to wear a mask for their protection are encouraged to do so, and that decision should be respected by all members of our community. Follow physical distancing guidelines as dictated by building signage and instructions from the staff. Anyone exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms defined by the CDC will be asked to leave immediately. Clean equipment before and after each use (e.g. dumbbells, grips, medicine balls, heavy bags, etc.) Registration for group exercise classes using the online portal or the app (search for UM Wellness) is required. Make the Most of Your Experience In addition to the guidelines outlined above, we have some recommendations that will help you make the most of your workout. Use your phone to check-in Our app allows you to use your phone to access our facilities seamlessly with a touchless process. Use your time efficiently We will have limited space for idle time in the facility, so be sure to plan your visit in a way that you can get your workout done upon arrival and be able to leave shortly after. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices