Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Menu Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Husky Health & Well-Being Coronavirus concerns? UW’s Coronavirus FAQ page provides up-to-date information about how to protect yourself. Learn more All UW Seattle student health services in one place UW Seattle offers a wide range of health and wellness services, from exceptional medical care and counseling services to recreation classes, safety resources, peer health advocacy, trainings and more. Most services on this site are limited to currently matriculated UW Seattle students, while others are open to faculty, staff and the general public. Our goal is to support your health, safety and well-being so you can make the most out of your Husky Experience. How can we help you today? Statement of Solidarity in Response to Domestic Terrorism in Buffalo Words are wholly inadequate every time this occurs. Yet we cannot remain silent in the face of persistent domestic terrorism, racist violence, and an epidemic of death in the U.S., our land of highly selective liberty. Our hearts go out to all who are directly impacted by Buffalo’s mass shooting, and to all who feel even more vigilant and even less trusting today. Let us all examine ways we are affected by the ideology of white supremacy, from more blatant ways (perpetuating myths such as “white replacement”) to more subtle ways (numbing ourselves). In times like these, white supremacy benefits from Black bodies being dysregulated and from white bodies being numb. Therefore, we encourage Black bodies to take time to do what helps you regulate (e.g., be in community, rest, breathe). We also recognize the ways in which persistent acts of hatred impact non-Black indigenous communities and people of color who are navigating white supremacy. White supremacy as an ideology divides us and it is at moments like these that we are invited to bear witness to the suffering caused by white supremacy. We encourage everybody to seek out community in ways that reduce suffering. We invite you to visit our Culture of Care webpages for resources on anti-racism for Black individuals and communities, for non-Black individuals and communities of Color, and for white individuals and communities. Mental Health Medical & Dental Recreation Safety Resources Get Involved Anxiety in the age of coronavirus Take small steps to reduce anxiety Many of us are constantly on our phones tracking the latest news about coronavirus. Consider unplugging from the news cycle for even an hour a day to allow your body and mind a break from fear and worry. Learn more Counseling Center Resources Resources for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) Students As a mental health service, the UW Counseling Center is committed to affirming and providing care for all of our students who have been directly or vicariously impacted by racial trauma. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. Learn more News and Updates App Opp: Sanvello Free COVID-19 anxiety support Sanvello has made premium access to their mobile app free for all users throughout the current COVID-19 pandemic. Sanvello’s offerings focus on teaching coping skills and engaging users in practices and exercises to better manage stress and symptoms of anxiety and depression. You’ll also find COVID-19-related content in the form of blog posts, videos, and audio meditations on an ongoing basis. Read More >> University of Washington Winter quarter 2022 The University is maintaining an information page with facts and important information regarding winter quarter 2022. Read More >> University of Washington UW COVID-19 response: facts and resources UW is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in coordination with the UW Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases and state and local health departments. For regularly-updated information on the novel coronavirus and the University’s response, please visit uw.edu/coronavirus. Read More >> We would love to hear from you! Please feel free to share stories, events or to refer one of your favorite resources related to student health & well-being. Contact Us University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Many services featured on this website are funded by the UW Services and Activities Fee. © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA Need urgent help? Click for crisis services Crisis support US emergencies: Call 911 Click here for international emergencies SafeCampus: 206.685.7233 Open 24/7. Call if you have concerns about campus safety. My SSP (mental health support for UW students): 1.866.775.0608 Open 24/7. Online chat via My SSP website. You contact them to request a consultation with a counselor and they call you back the same day. Crisis Connections (Seattle-area mental health support): 866.427.4747 24-hour crisis line for people in the Seattle area. Call if you have concerns about urgent on- of off-campus mental health needs. On-campus support Hall Health 206.543.5030 Hall Health Center Counseling Center 206.543.1240 401 Schmitz Hall International support for students, faculty, and staff traveling abroad UW International Emergency Assistance