Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search Personal Training Virtual Personal Training Personal Trainers Small Group Training About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Personal Training Virtual Personal Training Personal Trainers Small Group Training About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training AAA Personal Training Personal Training Virtual Personal Training Personal Trainers Small Group Training Personal trainers at the Herbert Wellness Center are University of Miami students, typically earning degrees in an exercise related field such as exercise science, exercise physiology, sports medicine, or physical therapy. (additional fee + membership required) Why get a Personal Trainer? Personal trainers are not just for people who want to lose weight. Individuals at any fitness level can benefit from working with a personal trainer, from the beginner to the athlete and everyone in-between. Here are a few of the many reasons someone may hire a personal trainer: Motivation Knowledgeable guidance Overcoming plateaus Increasing fitness or performance level Updating fitness assessments and goals Enhancing overall health and quality of life About Herbert Wellness Center Personal Trainers Personal trainers at the Herbert Wellness Center are University of Miami students, typically earning degrees in an exercise related field such as exercise science, exercise physiology, sports medicine, or physical therapy. In addition, each trainer is certified through a nationally recognized organization and exhibits practical and intellectual competency and leadership in fitness. Trainers work under the direct supervision of the Assistant Director, Fitness and Personal Training, and receive regular continuing education to stay up to date on fitness trends and training techniques. Getting a Personal Trainer Visit the Sales Office to fill out the necessary paperwork, or complete the Medical History Form. Complete the Medical History Form. Once your Medical History Form is submitted and reviewed, you will be contacted via email to schedule your initial assessment. During the assessment you will discuss your goals and expectations, and obtain baseline measurements which help your trainer design your program. A personal trainer, chosen based on your preference and individual needs, will contact you within 48 hours of your assessment to schedule your first session. Rates and Fees Sessions may be purchased individually or in packages of eight. Buddy Passes are available for people who would like to attend training sessions with a friend for a reduced session rate. Purchase seven sessions at once and receive your eighth session for free. Single 1-hour Single 8-hour Buddy 1-hour Buddy 8-hour Student Members $32 $224 $41 $287 Faculty/Staff/Retiree Member $41 $287 $52 $364 Non-Employee Member $46 $322 $58 $406 Personal Training Policies Payment for all personal training sessions must be made through the Sales Office. At no time should any form of compensation be made to the trainer by the client as payment for personal training services. All personal training appointments must begin on time and end one hour after the scheduled starting time. Any time lost due to client tardiness is considered part of the appointment and is non-refundable. Personal trainers are expected to wait 15 minutes for a client at which time it is their discretion whether to keep the appointment. If a client cancels a session within 24 hours of the scheduled meeting time, the client will forfeit that session. If the trainer cancels a session within 24 hours of the scheduled meeting time, the trainer will be required to provide a complimentary session for the inconvenience. Clients must purchase personal training sessions prior to the scheduled session. Personal training sessions expire 6 months after the purchase date. Clients will have full responsibility for their choice of a personal trainer. If the client does not have a preference then the Assistant Director of Personal Training will recommend a trainer. This recommendation is based solely on the personal trainer’s availability and qualifications to meet the client’s goals. A client can request a different trainer at any time. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices