Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes fitness-and-wellness Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 Outdoor Adventures About UM Wellness App Mission Our Team Contact Us Membership Student Employment Leave a Suggestion Give Hours and Location Policies and Procedures & Minor Consent Form About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home About Us AAA Department of Wellness and Recreation The Herbert Wellness Center affirms the University of Miami’s commitment to a well-rounded educational environment. Mission The Department of Wellness and Recreation strives to foster a lifestyle of responsible choices supporting the mind, the body, and the spirit in educational, wellness, and recreational programs through services and facilities for the University community. Our Mission Our History Contact Us The staff at the Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center represent diverse backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. Contact Information Meet our Team Membership Membership to the Herbert Wellness Center is open to University students, faculty, staff, alumni, retirees, Board of Trustees, Citizens Board members, and their spouses and dependents. Learn more about becoming a member of the Herbert Wellness Center. Become a Member S.H.A.P.E. U.P. Student Employment The Herbert Wellness Center is a student-run facility and therefore one of the largest student employers on the Coral Gables campus. A wide variety of student employee positions are available, each with its own set of responsibilities, expectations and learning outcomes. Apply Today Leave a Suggestion Our primary goal is to serve you. Please help us by sharing your viewpoint, observations, interests, and needs. Your opinion will help us set policy, develop programs, and schedule classes. Leave a Suggestion Give Support an uplifting place of belonging where the mind, body, and spirit are nourished through wellness, recreation and education. Leave a lasting legacy with a naming gift to ensure the Herbert Wellness Center remains one of the most outstanding fitness centers in higher education. Love Bridge Student Employee Fund Mini Canes Camp Scholarships Donate to Club Sports UM Wellness App Stay up-to-date on the latest programs and services offered at the Herbert Wellness Center! Now available on the App Store and on Google Play by searching UM Wellness. UM Wellness App University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices