Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Menu Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Sexual Health Get safer sex supplies by mail UW Seattle students can order up to 25 safer sex supplies to be mailed to your home, anywhere in the US. Safer Sex Supplies By Mail Enjoying a healthy, pleasurable sex life, whether with a partner or on your own – is an important part of well-being. Hall Health offers an array of sexual health services to help you protect yourself from STIs and unintended pregnancy. We also offer pregnancy testing, abortion referral and prenatal care. Free safer sex supplies UW Seattle students can order safer sex supplies to be delivered to their home by mail – up to 25 items each month. You can also drop by Hall Health during our hours of operation to pick up 10 supplies per week. Student organizations, UW units and people organizing events geared for UW students may request bulk safer sex supplies for their own distribution. Order individual or bulk supplies here. Sexual health services at Hall Health Many sexual health services are available virtually, using a videoconferencing platform. Call us to schedule at 206.685.1011 to schedule. Confidential testing for sexually transmitted infections, including chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes, syphilis and HIV Treatment for STIs, included partner treatment PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis), a prescription medication for people who are at risk of HIV that prevents HIV transmission Pregnancy testing and options counseling Abortion information & referral Prenatal care A wide variety of birth control methods, including the birth control pill, patch, ring, shot and diaphragm IUD and implant (Nexplanon) insertion and removal Cervical cancer screening (pap and HPV testing) Population served Hall Health Phone Medical: 206.685.1011 Email uwhhc@uw.edu Address 4060 E Stevens Way NE Hours M, W, Th, F: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Tuesday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Pharmacy hours Monday – Friday: 9 a.m. – 5 p.m. Closed Saturday, Sunday & UW holidays More Information Directions & parking Nurse advice line Nurse advice by phone for UW students & established patients Monday – Friday: 8 a.m. – 5:30 p.m. 206.221.2517 After hours / weekends: 206.744.2500 Getting started Free safer sex supplies During the COVID-19 outbreak, individual UW Seattle students can order safer sex supplies to be delivered to their home by mail – up to 25 items per month. If you are a representative of an UW organization, unit or RSO and would like to request a larger quantity of safer sex supplies to distribute to students. Order individual and bulk supplies here. *Always check the expiration date on your safer sex supplies! Emergency contraception Emergency Contraception (EC) is available at the Hall Health Pharmacy to students of any age or gender. You can purchase it at any Seattle pharmacy. Students with Washington State health insurance (private insurance or Apple Health) can get EC over-the-counter at a contracted pharmacy without an out-of-pocket cost. For uninsured students, Planned Parenthood is a low-cost option for EC. The closest Planned Parenthood is located on 50th and Roosevelt in the University District. Please contact us if you are a UW student who needs help obtaining EC. HPV vaccination Hall Health offers HPV vaccination to UW Seattle students and established Hall Health patients. Please call us at 206.685.1011 to schedule. Bring your insurance card and student ID and check-in on the first floor. Vaccines that are recommended for you based on your age and assigned sex are fully covered by most US insurance plans when you visit an in-network provider. Learn more about health insurance and cost. STI testing and treatment (including PrEP) To schedule an appointment for STI testing, call us at 206.685.1011. Be sure to let us know when you call if are experiencing symptoms. STI testing needs vary from person to person based on age, assigned sex and risk factors. Unfortunately, in most cases, it’s not possible for Hall Health staff to tell you in advance of an STI testing visit what the out-of-pocket cost will be. The cost will depend on your health insurance benefits and network, the complexity of the visit and which lab tests are included. You can learn more about your health insurance benefits here. See the FAQ below for more information. Birth control methods If you are a current UW Seattle student, you can talk with a Family Planning Counselor at no cost. Call us at 206.685.1011 to schedule a virtual, telephone or in-person visit. The Family Planning Counselor cannot order lab tests, perform exams or write prescriptions. For prescription birth control, including to schedule a pre-IUD or pre-Nexplanon consultation, call us at 206.685.1011. Support for survivors of sexual & relationship violence If you have experienced or are experiencing any sort of unwanted sexual encounter, and would like to discuss support options and resources, you can speak to a confidential advocate from LiveWell (Brittany) or UWPD (Victoria). There is no cost to speak with an advocate. Brittany and Victoria can also can discuss resources and options if you are experiencing relationship violence or stalking. Please email them to set up an appointment. LiveWell (students only) – Brittany Bowhall – lwadvoc@uw.edu UWPD (students, staff & faculty) – Victoria Adams – vadams@uw.edu Frequently asked questions What do I do if I need medical advice? Have a concern? Need help figuring out your next step? You can call us at 206.221.2517 between 8 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, and between 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. If the nurse is on the phone, please leave a message with your name and telephone number, as well as a brief description of your concern. You will receive a call back within two hours, unless the clinic is exceptionally busy. Find out more about Medical Advice. What is the cost of STI testing or birth control? Will it be covered by insurance? The out-of-pocket cost of care depends on your insurance benefits and network. All US insurance plans are required to cover the full cost of any birth control method, as long as you visit an in-network provider. The cost of STI testing depends on whether or not you have symptoms, the tests you are seeking and your insurance benefits. If you are a current UW Seattle student, you are eligible for one subsidized visit (face-to-face interaction) with a Hall Health provider (medical doctor or nurse practitioner) per quarter for a problem or concern. However, you are responsible for any ancillary services, like lab tests, imaging and medications. We will bill your health insurance unless told otherwise, in which case you will be charged for any services not paid for through your subsidized benefits as a UW student. Learn more about health insurance. Is this service confidential? Your health information cannot be shared without your express permission with anyone other than the providers of your medical care. There are two exceptions to this rule: billing health insurance for STI testing or birth control and reportable STIs. If you have health insurance through a parent, guardian, or spouse, it is possible that the primary subscriber on the insurance could receive mail from your insurer that includes information about health care services you received, including STI testing and birth control. Paying out-of-pocket and not billing your insurance is the only way to be certain of confidentiality. Some STIs are reportable by law. Positive chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis results must be reported to the local health department to make sure those affected are treated. If you do have a positive result on one of these tests, your information will still be protected, and you would only be contacted if you did not complete treatment. Positive HIV results are also reported to the local health department, but anonymous HIV testing is available in Seattle (though not at Hall Health Center) if this is a concern. Where else can I be tested? There are many other providers in the Seattle area that provide confidential birth control, STI and HIV testing. Some of these clinics have income-based financial assistance.. Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest and Hawaiian Islands is one such provider, and has clinics throughout the greater Seattle area, including in the University District. Visit the Public Health-Seattle & King County website for a list of other STI and HIV testing providers. What are internal condoms? How do I use them? What are finger cots? How do I use them? What are dental dams? How do I use them? Meet our staff Hall Health Staff University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Many services featured on this website are funded by the UW Services and Activities Fee. © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA Need urgent help? Click for crisis services Crisis support US emergencies: Call 911 Click here for international emergencies SafeCampus: 206.685.7233 Open 24/7. Call if you have concerns about campus safety. My SSP (mental health support for UW students): 1.866.775.0608 Open 24/7. Online chat via My SSP website. You contact them to request a consultation with a counselor and they call you back the same day. Crisis Connections (Seattle-area mental health support): 866.427.4747 24-hour crisis line for people in the Seattle area. Call if you have concerns about urgent on- of off-campus mental health needs. On-campus support Hall Health 206.543.5030 Hall Health Center Counseling Center 206.543.1240 401 Schmitz Hall International support for students, faculty, and staff traveling abroad UW International Emergency Assistance