Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Default Folder Default Folder About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Current Offerings AAA fa You should be re-directed to another page momentarily. If not, please visit site://ACAD-STUAF-wellness.studentaffairs.miami.edu/classes-and-programs/index. Current Offerings Due to the COVID-19 outbreak, our class offerings are reduced to provide as safe an environment as possible while adhering to county guidelines regarding recreational facilities in addition to University-wide protocols. Please check back frequently for updates. Classes Services Virtual Offerings Registration GroupX The Herbert Wellness Center is now offering physically distanced indoor group exercise classes, virtual group exercise classes, and free outdoor yoga. In accordance with University guidelines, all group exercise classes are limited to 20 participants until further notice. Members MUST register through the UM Wellness app or our online registration portal no more than 72 hours in advance to reserve a space in all group exercise classes. Zoom codes for virtual classes are available upon registration. See the Registration tab for more information. Click here to view the Fall 2021 Group Exercise Schedule. For everyone's safety, participants must: Complete a screening survey prior to entering the Herbert Wellness Center Wear a mask at all times; no exceptions Pre-register for the class Wipe down equipment after class and place it in the cleaning area Stay within their zone during the class To make the most of your experience: Bring a water bottle and a towel Arrive at least 10 minutes before class to get your equipment and to keep your spot Important Reminders: Maximum of 30 people per class (Studio Cycling is limited to 15 bikes) Standbys are allowed (5 minutes before scheduled start time) Only 3 participants are allowed in the equipment closet at one time No entry once the class begins Questions? Stop by the Sales Office, Room 224 Call 305-284-5433 E-mail wellnesscenter@miami.edu We are now offering access to our virtual GroupX and Yoga classes through Virtual Memberships. Click the Virtual Offerings tab for more information. Yoga Yoga classes will continue to be held either virtually or in multi-purpose room A. Registration is required and participants must wear a mask. Tennis Classes The Herbert Wellness Center is now offering Tennis Classes at the courts located next to the Neil Schiff Tennis Center. Classes are offered in 4-week sessions. Registration for Fall Session 2 Adult Beginner, Intermediate & Intermediate/Advanced Tennis Classes will open Monday, October 11, 2021. Click here for more information. Pilates Classes The Herbert Wellness Center is offering Mat and Reformer Pilates classes. General registration for Session 2 or Reformer Pilates begins Wednesday, September 29. Click here for more information. Aquatics The Herbert Wellness Center is offering Youth Aquatic classes. Registration for Fall Session 1 opens Monday, August 23. Click here for more information. Adult CPR AED First Aid We are now offering Red Cross Adult CPR AED First Aid Blended learning courses. To register, click here. For more information, contact Brittany Goins at bgoins@miami.edu. Virtual Classes The Herbert Wellness Center is offering a number of virtual classes and services including Meditation for Inner Peace & Happiness, Nutrition Counseling, and Personal Training. Click the Virtual Offerings tab for more information. Massage Therapy Massage therapy is available on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. Both 25-minute and 55-minute massage appointments are available. To schedule an appointment: 1. Complete the Massage Therapy Intake Form. 2. Send the completed form to wellnesssuite@miami.edu. 3. Once the form as been submitted, contact the Sales Office at 305-284-5433 to schedule your appointment. 25-min 55-min 8 Sessions Student $35 $60 $385 Non-Student Member $40 $70 $455 Non-Member $45 $80 $525 Massage License #: MM19082 Personal Training Personal trainers at the Herbert Wellness Center are University of Miami students, typically earning degrees in an exercise related field such as exercise science, exercise physiology, sports medicine, or physical therapy. In addition, each trainer is certified through a nationally recognized organization and exhibits practical and intellectual competency and leadership in fitness. Click here to learn more about Personal Training. The Herbert Wellness Center is now offering Virtual Personal Training. Click the Virtual Offerings tab for more information. CHAMP Fitness Assessments The free CHAMP assessment consists of a simple battery of tests that evaluates your current fitness level and compares your results to national data. Regular fitness assessments allow you to track your progress and fine-tune your exercise program for guaranteed results. After each assessment, a CHAMP peer counselor will review your results, help set reasonable goals and devise a 12-week program to achieve those goals. All participants that attend follow-up appointments and complete their program receive fitness-related rewards. Click here to learn more about CHAMP. Fitness Lab The Fitness Laboratory provides scientific support to those striving to achieve improved performance, health and wellness. The lab provides testing, other assessments and a consultation with a certified exercise physiologist who will interpret test data, provide tips on how to apply your results and make your exercise/training program as successful as possible. Click here to learn more about the Fitness Lab. Virtual Membership We are now offering access to our virtual GroupX and Yoga classes through Virtual Memberships. Virtual classes are indicated in blue in our Summer Group Exercise Schedule. Click here to purchase a virtual membership or a single class, or call the Sales Office at 305-284-5433. Please note that this membership type does not include facility access. UM Students who were not charged the wellness fee: $15/month or $5 per class UM Faculty and Staff: $20/month or $7 per class All Others: $25/month or $10 per class Note: We recognize that many of our non-student members still have an active membership. The virtual membership is separate from a facility membership. All non-student members will receive a membership extension for the number of days the facility was not open to them. Deductions will remain suspended until the Wellness Center is open to all members. New! Virtual Nutrition Counseling with Registered Dietitian Jacqueline Colon, RD, is now offering virtual nutrition counseling through the Herbert Wellness Center. Dr. Colon is offering a single consultation to get you back on track or a 12-week program that includes the following: Pre and post BOD POD (body fat assessment) Six one-hour virtual sessions every two weeks Weekly meal plans Calorie calculations to create the meal plans Weekly check-ins Goal setting and accountability Weekly lessons Rates One Session 12-week Program* UM Student $45 (plus 1 Bod Pod) $450 Non-Student $65 (plus 1 Bod Pod) $480 *3-installment payment plans are now available for the 12-week program. For more information or to register, please contact the Sales Office at 305-284-5433. Registration and Fees Complete the Nutrition Assessment Form. Once completed, send forms to wellnesssuite@miami.edu. Once received, a Wellness Center staff member will contact you to schedule your appointment. New! Virtual Personal Training The Herbert Wellness Center is now offering virtual personal training to anyone who is eligible for a membership. Like our “in-house” personal training, virtual training offers a customized workout conducted by our nationally certified personal trainers. Virtual training allows you to get a great workout and meet your fitness goals from the comfort and safety of your home! You must have a valid Zoom account to participate in virtual training. Zoom is free to use and can be downloaded by clicking here. The trainer will email you a Zoom link to use for each session. Our trainers are offering a choice of two different formats: traditional and consultation. Traditional style: these sessions are similar to in-house personal training sessions. The trainer will supervise as you perform each exercise and provide real-time feedback, coaching cues, or demonstrations of movements. Consultation style: these sessions are once a week and meant to serve as a weekly check-in. Recommended for more advanced and self-motivated clients, the trainer will meet with you once a week, discuss your progress, answer any questions or issues that arise, and provide the workout program for the following week. Pricing will remain the same as our in-person training prices. You are NOT required to have an active membership with virtual personal training but do need to be eligible for membership. The initial consultation is complimentary. If interested, please contact the Sales Office at 305-284-5433. Click here to learn more about Personal Training. Meditation for Inner Peace and Happiness Join our virtual guided meditations led by Lunthita Duthely, EdDMS R934 4150 2621YT-200. Sundays at 7:00 p.m. Zoom Meeting ID: 917 9520 8091 Tobacco Cessation The Tobacco Cessation Program is offering Virtual Groups for students, faculty, and staff interested in quitting smoking and vaping. Click here for more information. Wellness from Home Workout Videos Our fitness staff has created a variety of simple yet powerful workouts you can do from the comfort of your home. Click to view our Wellness from Home Workout Videos. Online Registration Registration for our Group Exercise classes is now required for participation. You can register for classes and services through the UM Wellness app or our online registration portal. The online registration system works best with Google Chrome web browser. If you do not have Chrome already installed on your computer, visit www.google.com/chrome to download the browser for free. Student members should use their CaneID and password to login. If you have never used our online registration before or require assistance, please contact the Herbert Wellness Center’s sales office at 305-284-5433. Please note, membership must be current at the time of registration to enroll in classes during the registration period and to receive member rates. Registration for classes is only available during published registration dates. Resources HOW-TO: Register for classes on the Wellness Center portal HOW-TO: Register for classes on the UM Wellness App Contact Contact the sales office by calling by 305-284-5433 Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. You can also send an e-mail to wellnesscenter@miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices