Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes LIFE About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Classes & Programs LIFE AAA 65+ Fitness Program (L.I.F.E.) Research indicates that inactive older adults, by becoming active, can offset 50% or more of the physical loss during those years. The L.I.F.E. program places emphasis on resistance exercise, flexibility training, and functional activities. (additional fee + membership not required) Living Independently Through Fitness and Exercise (L.I.F.E.) is an exercise program designed exclusively for individuals 65 years of age and older. Research shows that inactive older adults who become active can offset 50% or more of the physical loss during these years. The L.I.F.E. program emphasizes strength and flexibility training as well as functional activities. With improved strength and flexibility, the necessary activities of daily living are more easily accomplished thus allowing each participant to remain independent for as long as possible and improving quality of life. A Day in the L.I.F.E. Program 10 to 15 minutes of warm-up activities to get the body moving 30 to 40 minutes of weight training or functional activities 10 to 15 minutes of cool-down and relaxation Program Details Adults 65 and older 36 supervised sessions completed over a 16-week period Sessions are held in the mornings on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Exercise routine includes: Weight training Balance training Stretching Agility drills Functional training Yoga Qualified and Experienced Staff Tony Musto, Ph.D., ACSM Certified Clinical Exercise Physiologist, designed the L.I.F.E. program based on the latest research findings and safety considerations. All sessions are carefully monitored to meet the program goals and allow each participant to work at their own pace in a supportive environment. What the Experts Are Saying Not only do the participants think it is a great program, the American College of Sports Medicine Interest Group on Aging recognizes L.I.F.E. as a “Successful Active Aging Program.” The L.I.F.E. program has also been featured in numerous publications and journals. Program Registration Complete the Electronic Medical History Form. Be sure to ONLY check the LIFE Senior Fitness Program box. The Program Application Packet includes a letter for your physician describing the program and a physician's approval form. You are required to get your physician's approval to participate. Email the completed Program Application Packet to the Herbert Wellness Center at wellnesscenter@miami.edu. Once all materials are received, you will be contacted to schedule a program orientation and basic fitness assessment. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices