Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Student Affairs Home Outdoor Adventures AAA Gear Rentals Get the quality name-brand gear you need to standup paddle, surf, camp, hike, and snorkel. Climbing Wall The climbing wall at the Outdoor Adventure Center is one of few indoor climbing facilities in South Florida. Adventure Trips Adventure trips invite participants to visit sites within the Miami area, throughout the state of Florida, across the United States, or even abroad. Rent Gear > Climb On > Learn More > Gear Rentals Get the quality name-brand gear you need to standup paddle, surf, camp, hike, and snorkel. Climbing Wall The climbing wall at the Outdoor Adventure Center is one of few indoor climbing facilities in South Florida. Adventure Trips Adventure trips invite participants to visit sites within the Miami area, throughout the state of Florida, across the United States, or even abroad. COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn more about our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn more about our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Outdoor Adventures Outdoor Adventures is your gateway to outdoor adventure sports like climbing, hiking, diving, camping, stand up paddleboarding, surfing, and more. Connect with us to learn more about how you can experience the outdoors through our programs and services. Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Adventure Trips Apply for the SEALs Program Contact Us 305-284-5116 | adventures@miami.edu Contact Us 305-284-5116 | adventures@miami.edu Climbing Wall The climbing wall at Outdoor Adventures is one of few indoor climbing facilities in South Florida. Our climbing wall is 14 feet tall and 60 feet long with a rotating schedule of changes to the routes and problems. Climb On Gear Rentals Get the quality name-brand gear you need to kayak, standup, surf, camp, hike, and snorkel. Rent Gear Adventure Trips Adventure trips invite participants to visit sites within the Miami area, throughout the state of Florida, across the United States, or even abroad. Learn More Fill out our Interest Form Programs We offer a variety of programs and educational opportunities to introduce you to experincing the outdoors. From a variety of instructional clinics to outdoor exercise opportunities we we have options for everyone. Get Outdoors University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices