Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes fitness-and-wellness Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 Outdoor Adventures Classes About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Classes & Programs AAA Classes & Programs The Department of Wellness & Recreation hosts a wide variety of fitness, wellness, and instructional classes to satisfy the needs of both members and non-members via the Patti & Allan Herbert Wellness Center and Outdoor Adventures. For additional information about any of our classes, programs or services, please call the sales office at 305-284-5433. Group Exercise Whether you are just starting an exercise routine or you are an avid exerciser looking for a challenge, the Herbert Wellness Center offers a wide variety of group exercise classes to keep you engaged and help you meet your wellness needs. More Info Reformer Pilates Reformer Pilates classes are taught using Peak Piltes MVe reformer and tower systems. These classes focus on building core strength and edurance, increasing flexibility, improving muscle tone, and enhancing concentration. More Info Aquatics Knowing how to swim is an important life skill for both children and adults to have, especially in South Florida. We offer a variety of aquatics classes for participants of all skill levels. More Info Tennis Whether you are new to the sport or are looking to improve and refine your game, we have the class to fit your needs. More Info Martial Arts Learn self-defense techniques from around the world in our martial arts classes. These classes are fun, educational, and provide full-body workouts. More Info Adventure Programs Outdoor Adventures offers a variety of programs and educational opportunities for experiencing the outdoors. From instructional clinics to a climbing wall and outdoor exercise opportunities, there are options for everyone. More Info Weightlifting 101 This is a beginner-friendly ultimate guide to weight lifting. In this course, you will learn the basics of the barbell and major lifts including deadlift, bench press, and squat variations. More Info 65+ Fitness Program Living Independently Through Fitness and Exercise (L.I.F.E.) is a program specially designed for individuals sixty-five years of age or older. With improved strength and flexibility, activities of daily living are more easily accomplished. More Info CPR and First Aid The Herbert Wellness Center operates as a satellite center of the University of Miami’s Center for Research in Medical Education. The emergency cardiovascular care (ECC) courses offered by the Herbert Wellness Center are conducted in affiliation with the American Heart Association. More Info University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices