Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Small Group Training Massage Therapy About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Fitness & Well-Being Massage Therapy AAA Massage Therapy The Herbert Wellness Center offers massage appointments with licensed massage therapists to students, faculty and staff, and community members. (additional fee + membership not required) About Massage Therapy Swedish massage is what many people think of when massage is mentioned. It uses long light strokes, deep kneading, small friction-type motions, light tapping, and movement of the joints. There are many other specialized techniques that you are able to take advantage of during your appointment. Ask your massage therapist about their knowledge of specific techniques that may suit your needs. Scheduling a Massage Massage therapy is available on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. Both 25-minute and 55-minute massage appointments are available. To schedule an appointment: Complete the Massage Therapy Intake Form. Send the completed form to wellnesssuite@miami.edu. Once the form as been submitted, contact the Sales Office at 305-284-5433 to schedule your massage appointment. The sales office accepts credit cards (Visa, MC, AMEX). Rates & Fees 25-min 55-min 8 sessions* Student Member: $35 $60 $385 Non-Student Member: $40 $70 $455 Non-Member: $45 $80 $525 *This offer excludes 25-minute table massages. Special Discounts for UM Faculty and Staff: UM faculty and staff are eligible to receive a 10% discount on a 55-minute massage at the Herbert Wellness Center. Prices and services as subject to change without notice. Gratuity is greatly appreciated. Open All Tabs Policies & Procedures ILLNESS POLICY & COVID-19 SAFETY For the safety of our members and guests, the policies have been amended to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. All changes related to COVID-19 are based on recommendations by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the University of Miami. If you are currently experiencing any respiratory, cold, or flu-like symptoms including fever, chills, nasal drainage/congestion, sore throat, cough, muscle aches, or shortness of breath, you are required to reschedule your appointment. Any member or guest exhibiting COVID-19 as defined by the CDC will be asked to leave immediately. Due to COVID-19 safety standards, a mask must be worn at all times while in communal areas of the facility. Clients will be instructed when they can remove their masks prior to the massage session. For the safety of our staff, all therapists will be wearing gloves for the duration of the massage. SCHEDULING Services are scheduled by appointment only. Services can be scheduled by calling the Sales Office at 305- 284-5433. CANCELLATION POLICY 24-hour notice is required to cancel or reschedule an appointment. A no-show or failure to cancel appointments at least 24 hours in advance will result in a full charge of the scheduled appointment. If you need to reschedule because you are not feeling well or have any COVID-19 related symptoms, please contact the Sales Office at 305-284-5433 as soon as possible. No fees will be charged for cancellations due to illness. PAYMENT Full payment is due when booking an appointment. Clients may purchase single sessions or a package of 8 sessions. All sessions expire 6 months after the purchase date. We only accept credit cards at this time (Visa, Master Card, Discover, or American Express). REFUNDS Please email wellnesssuite@miami.edu for refund inquires or requests. ARRIVING LATE If you are late for your session, we may be unable to extend your session beyond your original appointment time. You will receive the remaining time left in your appointment slot. Regardless of the length of the service received, you will be responsible for payment of the full service you scheduled. GIFT A MASSAGE Sessions or packages can be purchased on the behalf of another member or guest by calling the Sales Office at 305-284-5433. A credit will be added to the member or guest’s account. We do not provide physical gift cards. GRATUITIES Gratuities are not included in the price of massage therapy sessions. All gratuities are at the client’s discretion and can be made directly to the massage therapist or in the Sales Office. HEALTH CONSIDERATIONS Please inform us at the time of scheduling of any health conditions, allergies, special needs, or concerns you have. Some services may not be appropriate for certain conditions. COMMUNICATE YOUR PREFERENCES All aspects of your massage therapy session can be modified to your preference: pressure (too light or too deep), lighting in the room, style of music, temperature, and whether you prefer to have a conversation or enjoy the session in silence. RATES AND FEES Prices and services are subject to change without notice. Gratuity is greatly appreciated. Massage License #: MM19082 Wellness Center Massage Therapists The HWC massage therapists have extensive training, as well as many years of experience in several types of massage. In the state of Florida, massage therapists are licensed to further ensure their level of competency and professionalism. Massage therapists have a basic knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and knowledge of when massage is or is not appropriate. Chair Massages The Herbert Wellness Center is happy to bring chair massage to University of Miami departments and organizations. Contact the Assistant Director of Wellness Programs Emelyn Dure at e.dure@umiami.edu to learn more about available times and rates. This services is not available for non-UM affiliated community members. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices