Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Menu Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Home Mental Health Get Started – Mental Health Urgent Help ADD/ADHD One-on-One Support Gender-Affirming Care Workshops and Group Therapy Insurance Billing Mindfulness, Yoga & Meditation Psychiatric Medication Ongoing Therapy/Psychiatry Resources Virtual Let’s Talk Doctoral Internship Program in Health Service Psychology Task Force on Student Mental Health Mental Health Resources Medical & Dental Get Started – Medical & Dental ADD/ADHD Dental Care MyChart Patient Portal Flu Shots Gender-Affirming Care Immunizations Insurance & Cost Lab & Radiology Medical Records Nurse Advice OB/GYN Pharmacy Physical Therapy & Sports Medicine Primary Care Sexual Health Travel Medicine Tobacco and Nicotine Cessation LiveWell Peer Health Educators Confidential Advocacy Peer Wellness Coaching Student Care Alcohol & Other Drug Education Safety Get Started – Safety Concerning Behaviors Harassment and Sexual Harassment Relationship Violence Sexual Assault Stalking Suicide Concerns Recreation Get Started – Recreation Self-Care Resources Resource Library Forms Trainings Interviews, Presentations & Outreach Posters & Pamphlets Student Care Reports Trainings UW Food Pantry Campus Partners Counseling Center Hall Health LiveWell Resilience Lab SafeCampus UW Recreation The Whole U Quick Links Immunization Requirement Insurance & Cost Urgent Help Sexual Assault & Relationship Violence Understanding your options and steps you can take If you are member of the UW Community and are sexually assaulted or in a violent or abusive relationship you have options and resources available to you on campus. Reaching out to a caring professional can help bring clarity about your next steps. Definition: Sexual Assault includes any sexual contact that occurs without clear initial consent or lacks on-going consent throughout additional sexual activity. This page offers information about what campus partners are available to support you and how to connect with them. Campus partners LiveWell Related resources National Sexual Assault Website & Hotline UW Bias Reporting Tool UW Police Department Victim Advocacy Steps to take For in-person confidential advocacy, schedule an appointment with the LiveWell Student Advocate LiveWell Confidential Advocates LiveWell Confidential Advocates provide a safe and confidential space to support students, faculty or staff who have experienced an incident of sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking or sexual harassment. We support individuals and help them understand their options for reporting both on campus and in the larger community, provide academic advocacy, and safety plan — always with the understanding that it is up to the individual to make decisions about next steps and whether or not they want to report to campus officials or the police. To make an appointment visit the LiveWell Advocate scheduling page. Safe Campus If you or someone you know is experiencing a crisis and our UW offices are closed, or you would prefer to talk with someone immediately over the phone, these resources can offer assistance. SafeCampus at 206.685.7233. SafeCampus is not confidential, but you have the option to call anonymously and withhold identifying information to protect your privacy if you wish. Office of Title IX The University of Washington carries out the objectives of Title IX through a coordinated system of initiatives, programs, and services that collectively protect educational access, advance gender equity, and prevent and respond to sexual harassment, sexual violence, and gender discrimination. Title IX applies to and protects students, staff, faculty, other academic personnel and visitors at the Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses as well as other sites and programs affiliated with the University.The Know Your Rights & Resources guide is intended for any member of the University community who has experienced sexual assault, stalking, relationship or intimate partner violence, sexual harassment, or other sexual misconduct. The guide provides important information on resources and reporting options so that individuals can decide what feels right for their situation. Colleagues and friends of those who have experienced harm may also find the guide useful. Off Campus Resources: National Sexual Assault Website & Hotline National Domestic Violence Hotline Additional information about sexual assault What is sexual assault? Sexual assault includes any sexual contact that occurs without explicit consent of the individual or that exceeds that individuals consent. Perpetrators can be acquaintances, classmates, colleagues, supervisors, former or current intimate partners, family members and strangers. Sexual assault affects people of all races, genders, sexual orientations, social classes, ages and abilities. Seeking medical care If you would like to learn what your options are for seeking medical care after sexual assault please visit the UW Sexual Assault Medical Care page. It contains information on what a Sexual Assault Nurse Examination (SANE) entails and what medical locations offer exams. Supporting a friend or colleague Many individuals turn to someone they trust when they need support. Your response when a friend or colleague shares with you that they have been sexually assaulted may impact whether they feel supported and choose to seek additional help. Please consider taking these steps when someone discloses to you: Validate: Believe them and thank them for sharing with you. Listen: Ask how you can help. Connect: Share with them that there are resources on campus to support them. Consult: Call SafeCampus to determine options or share any safety concerns. Self-care: Take care of yourself and be aware of your own feelings. Sexual assault and Title IX Sexual assault may be a form of sexual misconduct and a violation of Title IX. If you have experienced sexual assault, learn more about Title IX and additional campus resources, such as Confidential Advocates, by visiting the UW Sexual Assault Resources Page. If you are a UW student employee, staff or faculty member who has received a disclosure, visit our Title IX Response and Support Protocol page to learn what to do next. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Many services featured on this website are funded by the UW Services and Activities Fee. © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA Need urgent help? Click for crisis services Crisis support US emergencies: Call 911 Click here for international emergencies SafeCampus: 206.685.7233 Open 24/7. Call if you have concerns about campus safety. My SSP (mental health support for UW students): 1.866.775.0608 Open 24/7. Online chat via My SSP website. You contact them to request a consultation with a counselor and they call you back the same day. Crisis Connections (Seattle-area mental health support): 866.427.4747 24-hour crisis line for people in the Seattle area. Call if you have concerns about urgent on- of off-campus mental health needs. On-campus support Hall Health 206.543.5030 Hall Health Center Counseling Center 206.543.1240 401 Schmitz Hall International support for students, faculty, and staff traveling abroad UW International Emergency Assistance