Skip to Feature Story https://wellnessnetwork.utexas.edu/BeVocal Home About Us Bystander Intervention BeVocal Model History of BeVocal University of Texas System Initiative FAQ Contact Us Get Involved How to Get Involved Who's Involved Join Our Listserv Intervene Now! Resources Workshops Ways to Infuse BeVocal Facilitator Materials Forms BeVocal: The Bystander Intervention Initiative of The University of Texas at Austin PROGRAM UPDATES BeVocal is still here to help empower students, faculty and staff to intervene to prevent and reduce harm. Sign up for a virtual workshop. BeVocal about COVID-19 BeVocal is a university-wide initiative to promote the idea that individual Longhorns have the power to prevent high-risk behavior and harm. BeVocal builds on the existing expertise of campus centers and departments at UT Austin and unifies these with consistent messaging and content. This means that while the issue or type of harm may vary in context, the promotion of intervention, the action steps, potential barriers and many resources will be consistent across issue areas. Our hope is that the reinforcement of bystander intervention by over fifteen campus partners will increase the odds of a UT student intervening to prevent harm as well as create a culture of caring for each other's well-being. Mission: BeVocal enhances bystanders confidence and motivation to intervene to prevent and reduce harm. Vision: BeVocal envisions in a community that engages and invests in everyone's safety and wellbeing. What is BeVocal? Bystander Intervention BeVocal Model History of BeVocal UT System Initiative FAQs Ways to Infuse BeVocal Intervene Now! Facilitator Materials Forms Contact BeVocal Get Involved How to Get Involved Who is Involved BeVocal Student Org. Join the Listserve PROGRAM UPDATES BeVocal is still here to help empower students, faculty and staff to intervene to prevent and reduce harm. Sign up for a virtual workshop. BeVocal about COVID-19 BeVocal is a university-wide initiative to promote the idea that individual Longhorns have the power to prevent high-risk behavior and harm. BeVocal builds on the existing expertise of campus centers and departments at UT Austin and unifies these with consistent messaging and content. This means that while the issue or type of harm may vary in context, the promotion of intervention, the action steps, potential barriers and many resources will be consistent across issue areas. Our hope is that the reinforcement of bystander intervention by our numerous partners, we will increase the odds of a UT student intervening to prevent harm as well as create a culture of caring for each other's well-being. Mission: BeVocal enhances bystanders confidence and motivation to intervene to prevent and reduce harm. Vision: BeVocal envisions a community that engages and invests in everyone's safety and wellbeing. What is BeVocal? Home l ©2021 l Web Accessibility l Web Privacy https://www.wellessnetwork.utexas.edu/ Home Bystander Intervention Intervene Now! Get Involved Contact BeVocal ©2021 UT Emergency Information Web Accessibility Web Privacy