Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Aquatics About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Classes & Programs Aquatics AAA Aquatics Knowing how to swim is an important life skill for both children and adults to have, especially in South Florida. We offer a variety of aquatics classes for participants of all skill levels. (additional fee + membership not required) Our variety of swim classes are great for those looking to build upon their own swim experience. Whether you’ve never taken an aquatics class before or are looking to master your technique, we have a class for your needs. All our classes are held in our indoor pool. Open All Tabs Youth Aquatics Spring Session Sunday, January 23 - Sunday, April 17 Classes are offered 1 time a week for 12 weeks. Registration Registration for Spring Session is open Monday, January 3 - Friday, January 21. Register in person or call the sales office at 305-284-5433. Cost $165 per session Level 1 Guppies Preschool-age children 3-6 years old who have never taken a swim class and do not swim at all. They are brand new to the pool. The course will cover basic safety topics and assist children in gaining confidence in their swimming abilities. The course will include working on being in the water, breathing, front crawl, and floating. Sundays from 10-10:30 a.m. Level 2 Minnows Preschool-age children 3-6 years old with previous swimming experience with shallow water. They are comfortable with the basics of front crawl and floating and will begin to work on stroke technique and refinement of swimming skills. Sundays from 10:45-11:15 a.m. Level 3 Trouts Children ages 5-8 who can complete at least one length of the pool without assistance. They must know freestyle stroke along with basic knowledge of the others. Sundays from 11:30 a.m. to noon Level 4 Marlins Children ages 6-10 who feel comfortable in the water and must be able to swim two lengths of the pool. They should know at least two strokes. This course will work on breathing, freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly. Sundays from 12:15-1 p.m. Level 5 Dolphins Children ages 6-10 who can swim well on their own. Children should be comfortable with each stroke and able to swim multiple laps in the large area of the pool. These more advanced swimmers will focus on refining their basic strokes and technique. Sundays from 1:15-2 p.m. Level 6 Sharks Ages 11-14. This is an advanced-level course where students will refine all of the strokes and techniques. Sundays from 2:15-3 p.m. Adult Aquatics Spring Session Classes are held Thursdays from March 24 to May 5. Class Levels: Beginner: 6-7 p.m. For those water lovers who may have taught themselves to swim or have never had the chance to swim. Drills are used to enhance your body position in the water and help you swim more effectively. Intermediate/Advanced: 7-8 p.m. You have mastered the front crawl and maybe the backstroke. You will leave this course with more strokes, different drills, and a better ability to swim for exercise. Registration: Registration is open from Tuesday, March 8 through Monday, March 21. Register in person or call the sales office at 305-284-5433. Cost Student member: $89 Member: $115 Non-member: $145 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices