Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Wellness Resource Center Menu About What We Do Contact Us Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Living Learning Community Online Programs Peer Education Professional Development Request a HEART Peer Program Safer Sex Supplies Upcoming Events Wellness Consultations Wellness at Temple Alcohol & Other Drugs Interpersonal Violence Prevention Mental Well-Being Sexual Health A department within Student Affairs Home Programs and Services Wellness Consultations Wellness Consultations We’ve organized a list of frequently-asked questions and resources to help folks make the best decision for their needs or goals. If you have any additional questions, please feel free to email TUWellness@temple.edu or call 215-204-8436. Please note email communications are not confidential and are checked by WRC professional staff during business hours – Monday through Friday 8:30am-5:00pm. Is anyone on the WRC staff a therapist or counselor? No one on the professional team is a counselor or therapist. This means communications may not be protected or private (such as incidents of sexual harassment or misconduct) and folks are not specialized in diagnosing or addressing mental health concerns. Temple University students are able to access free mental health support through Tuttleman Counseling Services [URL] - including individual and group counseling, trauma-informed yoga, and the Resiliency Resource Center. WRC professional staff are trained as health educators and public health practitioners – meaning we share education and information with students and other members of the campus community. We are happy to be a space where students can learn more about mental health services at Temple or in the Philadelphia area. What is a wellness consultation? Wellness consultations are brief (30 minutes or less) individual education sessions where students can discuss concerns, learn more about wellness topics, and be connected to resources. Some examples of common topics include: Exploring healthy stress management strategies. Learning ways to help a friend who may be in an unhealthy relationship. Discussing ways to support a friend who may be engaging in harmful drinking behaviors. Learning more about available resources on campus and in the community. How can I schedule or access a wellness consultation? While we do our best to meet with students when they stop by the office on Main campus, we cannot guarantee a same-day in-person conversation. Every effort will be made to find an available professional staff person who can support the student’s request, but scheduling for another time that works for the student may be necessary. Students are welcome to schedule an in-person or virtual wellness consultation by emailing TUWellness@temple.edu, calling us at 215-204-8436. Please note email communications are not confidential and are checked by WRC professional staff during business hours – Monday through Friday 8:30am-5:00pm. What if I am looking for crisis support beyond office hours? If you or someone you care about is looking for support for mental health, alcohol or other drugs, or interpersonal violence, please visit or access the resources listed below. If you are in danger or there is a medical emergency, please call 911 or local emergency services for immediate support. Crisis Text Line provides free, 24/7 support via text message. They are able to support callers experiencing a range of concerns: anxiety, depression, suicide, school. Text HOME to 741741. The Lifeline 800-273-8255 provides 24/7, free and confidential support to anyone in suicidal crisis or emotional distress. SAMHSA’s National Helpline 1-800-662-HELP (4357) is a free, confidential, 24/7, 365-day-a-year treatment referral and information service (in English and Spanish) for individuals and families facing mental and/or substance use disorders. The National Sexual Assault Hotline 1-800-656-HOPE (4673) connects callers with a trained staff member from a sexual assault service provider in their area. The National Domestic Violence Hotline [URL] offers call and chat services 24/7 for people experiencing dating, intimate partner, and domestic violence. Living Learning Community Online Programs Peer Education Professional Development Request a HEART Peer Program Safer Sex Supplies Upcoming Events Wellness Consultations Temple University Wellness Resource Center 1755 N. 13th Street Student Center, 201 Philadelphia, PA 19122 215-204-8436 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.