Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes About Us Fitness & Well-Being Classes & Programs Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Search About Us COVID-19 Response Hours & Location Membership Reservations Facilities Student Employment Contact Us Give Fitness & Well-Being Personal Training CHAMP Fitness Assessments Massage Therapy Meditation & Mindfulness Classes & Programs GroupX Pilates Youth & Adult Aquatics Tennis Martial Arts CPR & First Aid Outdoor Programs L.I.F.E. (65+ Program) Rec Sports Club Sports Intramurals Esports Parsons Golf Tournament Outdoor Adventures About Gear Rentals Climbing Wall Programs Adventure Trips Schedules Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Camp Staff Parent Resources Give to Mini Canes Group Exercise About Us Facilities Fitness & Wellness Rec Sports Outdoor Adventures Mini Canes Camp Student Affairs Home Classes & Programs Group Exercise AAA Group Exercise Whether you are just starting an exercise routine or you are an avid exerciser looking for a challenge, the Herbert Wellness Center offers a wide variety of group exercise classes to keep you engaged and help you meet your wellness needs. (free + membership required) Registration is required for all GroupX classes via the UM Wellness mobile app or online portal and is available up to 72 hours in advance. Please see registration details and COVID-19 guidelines below. Schedule A new schedule is released during the fall, spring, and summer semesters. Current Schedule Class Descriptions Ab Attack A 30-minute, core-sculpting workout Arms & Abs A 30-minute, core and upper body strengthening workout Beginner Yoga Follow a beginner-friendly yoga sequence Cardio Kickboxing Get your heart pumping in this high-energy class Cycle A cardio-based workout that progresses through various exercises in intervals Fierce & Fit Dance Cardio An empowering Hip-Hop/Latin Fusion dance workout designed to bring out your inner performer Gutts-N-Butts High intensity workout targeting core and glutes HIIT High intensity interval training guaranteed to get your heart pumping Mindful Yoga This class consists of slowly going through the sequence of Hatha yoga postures with great empasis on mindfulness and approaching one's current limits with gentleness Music video Cycle This spin class is a high-intensity and endurance ride. Spin to your favorite music videos! Pound Rockout Full-body workout that combines cardio, conditioning, and strength training with yoga and pilates-inspired movements while using lightly-weighted drumsticks to drum to the rhythm of the music Power Yoga Appropriate for thise looking for a more strenuous practice and wanting to add flexibility, balance, and concentration to their exercise routines Step Aerobics Grab a step and some energy with this action packed cardio and strength taining workout Super Sculpt Total body workout using the step, weights, bars and bands to tone from head to toe The Knockout Cardio kickboxing-inspired total body workout Total Body Conditioning A full body workout with a mixture of cardio, strength, and core (Advanced Class) Upper Body Blast 30 minutes of rep after rep of toning you full upper body and core Vinyasa Flow Yoga Step-by-step progression that has a beginning, middle, and end Yoga & Meditation Extended yoga class that includes mindful meditation practices at the end Zumba Latin-inspired dance fitness cardio Registration Registration for GroupX classes is required for participation. Members must register through the UM Wellness app or our online registration portal no more than 72 hours in advance to reserve a space in all group exercise classes. Zoom codes for virtual classes are available upon registration. The online registration portal works best with Google Chrome web browser. If you do not have Chrome already installed on your computer, visit www.google.com/chrome to download the browser for free. Student members should use their CaneID and password to login. If you have never used our online registration portal before or require assistance, please contact the Herbert Wellness Center’s sales office at 305-284-5433. HOW-TO: Register for classes on the Wellness Center portal HOW-TO: Register for classes on the UM Wellness App COVID-19 Guidelines The Herbert Wellness Center is currently offering physically distanced indoor group exercise classes and virtual group exercise classes. In accordance with University guidelines, all group exercise classes are limited to 20 participants until further notice. For everyone's safety, participants must: Wear a mask at all times; no exceptions Pre-register for the class Wipe down equipment after class and place it in the cleaning area Stay within their zone during the class To make the most of your experience: Bring a water bottle and a towel Arrive at least 10 minutes before class to get your equipment and to keep your spot Important Reminders: Maximum of 20-30 people per class (Studio Cycling is limited to 15 bikes) Standbys are allowed (5 minutes before scheduled start time) Only 3 participants are allowed in the equipment closet at one time No entry once the class begins Please note, membership must be current at the time of registration to enroll in classes during the registration period and to receive member rates. Registration for classes is only available during published registration dates. Questions? Stop by the Sales Office, Room 224 Call 305-284-5433 E-mail wellnesscenter@miami.edu Class Policies Only current, fees-paid University of Miami students or Herbert Wellness Center members and/or their official guests are eligible to participate in free group exercise classes. Patrons must be at least 13 years of age to participate in any classes offered at the Center. Participants should line up outside the designated entry door. Under no circumstances should members enter the aerobics room until instructed by the door monitor or instructor. Class sessions are limited to a maximum of 20 participants per class (Studio Cycling is limited to 15 bikes). Entry is on a first come, first served basis. After 20 participants have entered, the class will be closed. For safety reasons, participants may only enter an open class until 10 minutes after class start time. After 10 minutes the class is closed. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Department of Wellness and Recreation 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8500 305-284-8500 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices