Skip to main content Penn Home A-Z Directory Emergency Policies Webmail Search query Search Menu Menu Search Wellness Services Student Health Service Counseling and Psychological Services Alcohol and Other Drug Initiatives Campus Health Wellness Home Student Health Service Previous Photo Next Photo About this photo Close Student Health Service Home COVID-19 Student Health Student Counseling Public Health and Wellbeing Alcohol and Other Drug Program Initiatives Immunization and Health Insurance Compliance Wellness at Penn Wellness at Penn is dedicated to keeping students well and ready to achieve in all aspects of life. COVID-19 Information Visit Penn’s COVID-19 Response page to learn more about Penn’s campus-wide efforts to create a safe environment and to reduce the spread of COVID-19 throughout the community. Student Health and Counseling: Caring for Students During Their Academic Journey Student Health and Counseling is a the primary care and psychological care division of Wellness at Penn. Our state-of-the-art medical and counseling centers are designed to provide high-quality, compassionat care for students during their academic journey. Our dedicated team is committed to the health and well-being of Penn students, and providing safe, accessible, cost-effective, culturally-sensitive, and student-focused care. Our team provides care for acute and chronic health problems, preventive health services, health and wellness education, as well as mental health counseling, crisis management, and consultation. Wellness at Penn works in close collaboration with our partners in the University Life Division, and with our colleagues in the University of Pennsylvania Health System to help ensure the health and wellness of the campus community. Contact Student Health and Counseling Offices Student Health and Counseling – Medical Services: 215-746-3535 Student Health and Counseling – Counseling Services: 215-898-7021 Public Health and Wellbeing: Creating a Community of Care Wellness at Penn’s Public Health and Wellbeing division seeks to create a community of care through advocacy, education, and action. Our staff focuses on a wide variety of healthy living topics including sleep, hygiene, stress reduction, nutrition, exercise, and sexual health. Key initiatives include annual flu immunization clinics, which vaccinate more than 2,000 people a year, and yearlong sexual wellness education through events such as “Sex Camp” and “Sex Jeopardy.” Immunization and Health Insurance Compliance The University of Pennsylvania requires students to meet certain health requirements, including carrying adequate health insurance coverage and immunization against diseases. Insurance and immunization information can be completed by students using online forms. Contact the Immunization and Health Insurance Compliance Office Call 215-746-4200. Stress, Distress, & Crisis Wellness at Penn believes in a community of care and that we are all responsible for looking out for our own well-being and the well-being of others. The bottom line? You are not alone. And there is hope. Learn more: Caring For Yourself and Others: Stress, Distress, Crisis Watch I SHARE: Connection, Healing, & Hope to hear Penn students discuss the power of sharing and how they got support. Alcohol and Other Drug Policies and Initiatives Includes initiatives and policies about alcohol use, violence prevention, data collection, strategic project management, and (in a collaboration with Student Intervention Services) proactive crisis management. Home COVID-19 Student Health Student Counseling Public Health and Wellbeing Alcohol and Other Drug Program Initiatives Immunization and Health Insurance Compliance Making History: The Campaign for Penn Helpful Links Academic Calendar Admissions Athletics Campus Maps College Houses Diversity at Penn Financial Aid Media Requests Penn News Public Safety Student Groups Work at Penn | Student Jobs © 2021 Wellness at the University of Pennsylvania 3535 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-3535 Contact Wellness Copyright | Privacy | Disclaimer | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help