About Services and Resources Departments Giving Wellness and Recreation MAIN MENU Primary Menu Skip to content About Us About Us Budget Contact Us Staff Directory Strategic Plan Value and Impact NoCRSA State Workshop Commitment to Inclusion Giving Wellness and Recreation Alumni and Friends Marketing Partnerships Move30 Student Employment Wellness and Recreation Advisory Board Facilities Facilities Aquatics Health and Water Safety Courses Swim Lessons Equipment Checkout Facility Hours Facility Master Plan Wellness and Recreation Center Naming Opportunities Reservations Available Spaces And Rates Wellness and Recreation Guidelines Fitness Fitness Certification and Training Programs Custom Experiences F45 Training Group Fitness Training Services Fitness Assessment Services Personal Training Small Group Training Memberships Memberships Family Recreation Guest Passes Lockers Non-Student Membership Student Membership Outdoor Adventures Outdoor Adventures Challenge Course Climbing Center Custom Experiences Destinations and Resources Equipment Rental Center Outdoor Adventures Trips New Student Outdoor Trips Sports Sports Club Sports Custom Sports Events Impact Through Sport Intramural Sports Registration ThriveWell ThriveWell Employee Wellness Programs Special Events Student Wellness Programs Wellness Challenges Wellness Coaching Wolfpack Wellness MyWellRec Portal Try F45 for FREE Not sure if F45 is the right training program for you? Get 5 days free with code F45TRIAL. Learn More NC State Wellness and Recreation empowers the Wolfpack community to thrive. Together, we explore and grow in these six elements of wellness: purpose, financial, physical, emotional, social and community. Group Fitness Schedule Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Wellness Coaching Recent News | Read more... Adverse Weather Announcement: Sunday, Jan. 16 January 15, 2022 Sunday, January 16, 2022 Updated: 2:00 p.m. Saturday, January 15, 2022 Adverse Weather Announcement Wellness and Recreation recognizes the importance of safety for our users and staff while continuing to support fitness and wellness activities. Due to inclement weather, we are implementing our […] Work Out with the Wolfpack December 21, 2021 If your New Year’s resolution is to focus more on fitness, the brand new Wellness and Recreation Center is a convenient, affordable option right on campus and offers a free 30-day trial for new members. Earning Her Stripes December 6, 2021 Wellness and Recreation student employee Hannah Williams (integrative physiology and neuroscience '22) will be a referee for the national flag football tournament in Round Rock, Texas in January 2022. Search for: Wellness and Recreation 2611 Cates Avenue Carmichael Gym Suite 1203 Campus Box 8111 Raleigh, NC 27695 wellrec-info@ncsu.edu 919.515.7529 Facebook Twitter Instagram Email Accessibility Compliments & Complaints Filming Requests Website Feedback Site Index Division of Academic and Student Affairs About Services and Resources Departments Giving Search for: © 2022 Wellness and Recreation | Log in