Skip to main content Yale University Search form Yale West Campus Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Conference Center News Videos Campus Services Support Belonging at Yale Dining Our Campus Visit Campus Dining Campus Services Fitness & Wellness Photo Gallery INSTITUTES Partners Cores & Centers About Us Faculty Administration Directory Campus Services News & Events Cancer Biology Institute The Yale Cancer Biology Institute (YCBI) connects scientists from across Yale to study the common underlying causes of cancer, wherever it appears. Traditional cancer research continues to focus on vital questions about the treatment and care of specific types of cancer. Complementing this work, today’s research also seeks to understand core cellular and molecular links across multiple cancers. The purpose of the Cancer Biology Institute is to study this core biology. The YCBI was envisioned by founding Director Joseph Schlessinger, PhD, William H. Prusoff Professor and Chair of Pharmacology at Yale School of Medicine. Now joined by Mark A. Lemmon, PhD, the David A. Sackler Professor of Pharmacology and the Institute’s Co-Director, the Institute will be created from the ground up, with 2-3 new laboratories coming on stream each year over the next 5 years. Drs. Schlessinger and Lemmon are committed to building an institute for the long term and with a clear emphasis on making their research count for cancer. In concert with Yale Cancer Center, the Institute aims to become a driver of basic science through opportunities emerging from clinical research already at Yale. Faculty Advisory Committee: Mark Lemmon (Pharmacology), Co-Director Joseph Schlessinger (Pharmacology), Co-Director Marcus Bosenberg (Dermatology and Pathology) Barbara Burtness (Medical Oncology) David Calderwood (Pharmacology and Cell Biology) Don Engelman (Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry) Charlie Fuchs (Oncology, Director Yale Cancer Center) Roy Herbst (Pharmacology, Medicine/Medical Oncology) Valerie Horsley (Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology and Dermatology) Bill Jorgensen (Chemistry) Kathryn Miller-Jensen (Biomedical Engineering) David Stern (Pathology) Scott Strobel (Ex officio) (Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry) Faculty Claudio Alarcón Mandar Deepak Muzumdar Kathryn Ferguson Lilian Kabeche Daryl Klein Mark Lemmon Yansheng Liu Joseph Schlessinger Director Joseph Schlessinger Co-Director, Yale Cancer Biology Institute; William H. Prusoff Professor and Chairman of Pharmacology Mark Lemmon Co-Director, Yale Cancer Biology Institute; Alfred Gilman Professor of Pharmacology Contact Elaine Kupec Senior Administrative Assistant 203.737.7965 Institute Address Cancer Biology Institute 840 West Campus Drive West Haven, CT 06516 Fax 203.737.7335 News The Growth of the Cancer Biology Institute Yale Cancer Answers with Daryl Klein Yale postdoc Chrystal Starbird maximizes her opportunity with NIH career award ‘Decision switch’ discovered in mutations linked to common brain tumor Receptor structure reveals new targets for cancer treatment Recent Publications YCBI Publications 2021 YCBI Publications 2020 Yale Cancer Biology Institute Seminar Series February 15, 2022 1:00 pm Karolina Palucka, M.D., Ph.D. March 8, 2022 1:00 pm Benjamin G. Neel, M.D., Ph.D. April 12, 2022 1:00 pm Debattama Sen, Ph.D. Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Yale Directory . Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram