Skip to main content Yale University Search form Yale West Campus Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Conference Center News Videos Campus Services Support Belonging at Yale Dining Our Campus Visit Campus Dining Campus Services Fitness & Wellness Photo Gallery INSTITUTES Partners Cores & Centers About Us Faculty Administration Directory Campus Services News & Events Fitness & Wellness In addition to the many resources available across Yale, the West Campus provides an environment rich in fitness and wellness opportunities both inside and outdoors. The West Campus Fitness Center is available to campus residents on completion of an enrollment form. Users should follow Yale’s current COVID-19 protocols that have been posted at the facility. Following the Updated Masking Guidance from the University, face coverings will be optional for West Campus Fitness Center users. Consistent with the recent guidance, masking is still required for those who have COVID-19 symptoms or test positive, are a close contact of someone who has tested positive, and/or have a university-sponsored exemption to vaccination. Masks are strongly encouraged for those who are fully vaccinated but have not yet received a booster. Social distancing should be maintained wherever possible. Please wipe all key touchpoints with disinfectant wipes or other appropriate disinfecting cleaning products. Please direct questions or report equipment malfunctions to westcampus.administration@yale.edu Fitness Center The West Campus Fitness Center houses a range of exercise equipment, including treadmills, ellipticals, along with free weight and pin-selector strength training equipment. Both men’s and women’s locker rooms are also provided. The Center is available to Yale West Campus occupants. The facility is open seven days a week and at any time of day. Access is via Yale ID only. All fitness center users must submit a Fitness Center Enrollment form prior to using the facility. Please direct questions or report any issues regarding the Fitness Center to West Campus Administration. Campus Trails There’s no better respite-and-recharging place than the West Campus woods, which offer a great outdoor life for our community. The woodland trails run virtually the length of the campus along the Oyster River, with a walk from the Conference Center to the West Campus Barn, via the Yale School of Nursing, a jaunt of around 1.5 miles. Bring your comfortable walking shoes! Wellness Events From mindfulness exercises, to nature walks and yoga, numerous Yale partners host regular events for the West Campus community. Check the calendar for up-to-date listings of what’s happening on campus. Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Yale Directory . Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram