Skip to main content Yale University Search form Yale West Campus Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Conference Center News Videos Campus Services Support Belonging at Yale Dining Our Campus Visit Campus Dining Campus Services Fitness & Wellness Photo Gallery INSTITUTES Partners Cores & Centers About Us Faculty Administration Directory Campus Services News & Events Visit Yale West Campus is located 7 miles west of downtown New Haven at 100 West Campus Drive Orange, CT 06477. View Larger Map Download Campus Map Driving Directions West Campus Shuttle Effective July 6th, Yale Shuttle capacity will return to 100%, including shuttles serving West Campus. Riders are required to be masked. Please use DoubleMap to track rides in real-time. Updates to schedules, including nighttime to-door service, will be posted here. View the current West Campus Shuttle Schedule. For questions or comments relating to service, please contact George Longyear and copy West Campus Administration. ************* The Yale University Shuttle is a free service that provides transportation for the Yale community between West Campus and the Central and Medical School campuses. View West Campus shuttle schedule. When the shuttle is not running, West Campus occupants can request taxi service by calling West Campus Security at 203.737.3111. For shuttle assistance, contact First Transit directly at 203.281.5470. First Transit can help if you miss a bus, need service to the train after hours, want a ride to the daycare, would like to make changes to the drop off schedule (within approved areas), or want door-to-door service. For comments, suggestions, or service complaints please email George Longyear, Manager of Parking & Transit. Please note, there is Transit Service Feedback tab within the Transloc App. These comments go directly to George Longyear. It is important that you report all issues as soon as possible to enable a timely response. Parking Yale West Campus provides free parking for occupants and guests. Parking can be accessed through the front entrance at 100 West Campus Drive Orange, CT 06477. If visitors are entering West Campus from a different entrance, please call 203.737.3111 to ensure gate access. For parking information on central campus, please see the Yale Transportation Options website or call the Parking Office at 203.432.9790. Campus Tours General tours of the West Campus are offered through the Yale Visitor Center. For more information about tours, please visit the Yale Visitor Center. All tour requests should be sent to visitorcenter@yale.edu. For VIP and Development tours, please email West Campus Administration. Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Yale Directory . Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram