Skip to main content Yale University Search form Yale West Campus Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Conference Center News Videos Campus Services Support Belonging at Yale Dining Our Campus Visit Campus Dining Campus Services Fitness & Wellness Photo Gallery INSTITUTES Partners Cores & Centers About Us Faculty Administration Directory Campus Services News & Events Our Campus Welcome to West Campus, a vibrant part of Yale and hub for innovative research and learning. We’ve created an environment for true research convergence – a connecting point for Yale’s scientific focus on the challenges of human sustainability. See Yale West Campus Whether here for a conference, collaborating in the lab, or attending a class, we hope you enjoy your visit to Yale’s West Campus. Belying our recent beginnings, today we are a community of over 1600 dedicated Yale faculty, students and staff. We hope you will enjoy exploring our campus at Yale, it’s 1.6 million square feet of collaborative research space, and ample conference, event, and dining facilities. Learn how to visit campus Join Our Research Community West Campus has been reimagined to inspire groundbreaking scholarship for the 21st Century. Drawn from every corner of Yale, our scholars bring new perspectives to today’s most pressing challenges in health, culture, energy and the environment. Explore the pillars of our work and get to know the collaborative scholarship of seven research Institutes, the Yale School of Nursing, and the rich research technology that supports our science. Our research pillars Dining at West Campus Whatever your taste, West Campus has dining options to suit our campus community and their guests, including a full-service café, tailored hospitality for your meetings and events, and a self-serve kiosk for after-hours food. Numerous restaurants in the town of Orange and city of West Haven are also close by. And don’t miss a visit to The Terrace, for al fresco lunch with colleagues or for an impromptu meeting in the summer sun. Dine on campus Explore All West Campus Has to Offer Photo Gallery View Gallery Conference Center Visit Campus Services Visit Yale University Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy Yale Directory . Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram