Skip to main content Patient Care Academics & Research Appointments Pay a Bill MyChart Health Care Professionals Health News Media Careers Give Find a Doctor Treatment & Services Nationally ranked in 10 specialties by U.S. News & World Report. Treatments & Services Featured Services Immediate Care Telehealth Emergency Care Primary Care Brain Spine Neuro Cancer Heart & Vascular Obstetrics & Gynecology Sports Medicine Transplant View All Popular Services Allergy Immunology Care Arthritis Rheumatology Asthma Care Bariatric Surgery Brain Spine Neuro Burn Care Cancer Diabetes & Endocrinology Digestive Diseases Ear Nose Throat Eye Care Ophthalmology Gender-Affirming Care Genetics Geriatrics Health & Fitness Health Screenings Heart & Vascular Health & Wellness Infectious Diseases Integrative Health Intensive Care Kidney Care Liver Diseases Lung Pulmonary Maternity Center Mental Behavioral Neurological Institute Nutrition Services Obstetrics & Gynecology Orthopedics Palliative Care Pancreas Care Physical Therapy & Rehabilitation Plastic Surgery Skin Care Dermatology Sleep Disorders Sports Medicine Transplant Urology Weight Management Wound Healing Locations Patient & Visitor Guide Healthy Community Committed to improving health and wellness in our Ohio communities. Healthy Community Healthy Lifestyle News Buckeye Stories Family Fitness Healthy Eating Health and Wellness Tech and Innovation View All Health News Classes and Events Breastfeeding Classes Pregnancy and Childbirth Classes Weight Management Classes About Us The world is changing. Medicine is changing. We're leading the way. About Us Who We Are Our Mission Our People Our Facilities Diversity Quality and Safety Rankings and Awards Featured Initiatives Anti-Racism Initiatives Leading the Way Strategic Plan Healthy State Alliance Helpful Resources Mobile Apps Social Media Patient Experience Employee OneSource Vendor Interactions Contact Us Refer a Patient Site Search Search Search Close Patient Care Academics & Research Find a Doctor Treatment & Services Locations Patient & Visitor Guide Healthy Community About Us Refer a Patient Appointments Pay a Bill MyChart Health Care Professionals Health News Media Careers Give Participate in Research When you participate in a research study, you become a vital part of a team working to change the future of health care and improve people’s lives. Home Participate in Research Research study volunteers are essential in shaping the future of medicine. Whether it's a clinical trial of an experimental medication, a comparison of different treatments or a collection of data from people with a similar health condition or genetic background, community participants help researchers translate scientific discovery into lifesaving care. Research studies at Ohio State need participants of all ages – both those who are healthy and those with specific medical conditions. Here, you can register to be a research participant, browse research studies at Ohio State and learn more about how participating in research studies and clinical trials may impact your health and your medical care. Frequently Asked Questions These questions and answers are provided by ClinicalTrials.gov, a service of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. If your question isn’t answered here, call our HERO Line at 614-293-4376 (HERO). It is also helpful to talk to a physician, family members or friends about deciding to join a trial. What is a clinical study? A clinical study involves research using human volunteers (also called participants) that is intended to add to medical knowledge. There are two main types of clinical studies: clinical trials and observational studies. Clinical Trials In a clinical trial (also called an interventional study), participants receive specific interventions according to the research plan or protocol created by the investigators. These interventions may be medical products, such as drugs or devices, procedures or changes to participants’ behavior, for example, diet. Clinical trials may compare a new medical approach to a standard one that is already available or to a placebo that contains no active ingredients or no intervention. Some clinical trials compare interventions that are already available to each other. When a new product or approach is being studied, it is not usually known whether it will be helpful, harmful or the same as available alternatives (including no intervention). The investigators try to determine the safety and efficacy of the intervention by measuring certain outcomes in the participants. For example, investigators may give a drug or treatment to participants who have high blood pressure to see whether their blood pressure decreases. Clinical trials used in drug development are sometimes described by phase. These phases are defined by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Note: Some people who are not eligible to participate in a clinical trial may be able to get experimental drugs or devices outside of a clinical trial through an expanded access program. Observational Studies In an observational study, investigators assess health outcomes in groups of participants according to a protocol or research plan. Participants may receive interventions, which can include medical products, such as drugs or devices, or procedures as part of their routine medical care, but participants are not assigned to specific interventions by the investigator (as in a clinical trial). For example, investigators may observe a group of older adults to learn more about the effects of different lifestyles on cardiac health. Why are clinical studies conducted? In general, clinical studies are designed to add to medical knowledge related to the treatment, diagnosis and prevention of diseases or conditions. Some common reasons for conducting clinical studies include: Evaluating one or more interventions (for example, drugs, medical devices, approaches to surgery or radiation therapy) for treating a disease, syndrome or condition Finding ways to prevent the initial development or recurrence of a disease or condition. These can include medicines, vaccines or lifestyle changes, among other approaches. Evaluating one or more interventions aimed at identifying or diagnosing a particular disease or condition Examining methods for identifying a condition or risk factors for that condition Exploring and measuring ways to improve the comfort and quality of life of people with a chronic illness through supportive care Why are clinical studies important? Participating in a clinical study contributes to medical knowledge. The results of these studies can make a difference in the care of future patients by providing information about the benefits and risks of therapeutic, preventative or diagnostic products or interventions. Clinical trials provide the basis for the development and marketing of new drugs, biological products and medical devices. Sometimes, the safety and the effectiveness of the experimental approach or use may not be fully known at the time of the trial. Some trials may provide participants with the prospect of receiving direct medical benefits, while others do not. Most trials involve some risk of harm or injury to the participant, although it may not be more than the risks related to routine medical care or disease progression. (For trials approved by institutional review boards (IRB), the IRB has decided that the risks of participation have been minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits.) Many trials require participants to undergo additional procedures, tests and assessments based on the study protocol. These will be described in the informed consent document for a particular trial. A potential participant should also discuss these issues with members of the research team and with his or her usual health care provider. Who can participate in a clinical study? A clinical study is conducted according to a research plan known as the protocol. The protocol is designed to answer specific research questions as well as safeguard the health of participants. It contains the following information: The reason for conducting the study Who may participate in the study (the eligibility criteria) The number of participants needed The schedule of tests, procedures or drugs and their dosages The length of the study What information will be gathered about the participants Clinical studies have standards outlining who can participate, called eligibility criteria, which are listed in the protocol. Some research studies seek participants who have the illnesses or conditions that will be studied. Other studies are looking for healthy participants. And some studies are limited to a predetermined group of people who are asked by researchers to enroll. The factors that allow someone to participate in a clinical study are called inclusion criteria, and the factors that disqualify someone from participating are called exclusion criteria. These are based on variables such as age, gender, the type and stage of a disease, previous treatment history and other medical conditions. What questions should I ask about a particular study? Anyone interested in participating in a clinical study should know as much as possible about the study and feel comfortable asking the research team questions about the study, the related procedures and any expenses. The following questions might be helpful during such a discussion. Answers to some of these questions are provided in the informed consent document. Many of these questions are specific to clinical trials, but some also apply to observational studies. What is being studied? Why do researchers believe the intervention being tested might be effective? Why might it not be effective? Has it been tested before? What are the possible interventions that I might receive during the trial? How will it be determined which interventions I receive (for example, by chance)? Who will know which intervention I receive during the trial? Will I know? Will members of the research team know? How do the possible risks, side effects and benefits of this trial compare with those of my current treatment? What will I have to do? What tests and procedures are involved? How often will I have to visit the hospital or clinic? Will hospitalization be required? How long will the study last? Who will pay for my participation? Will I be reimbursed for other expenses? What type of long-term follow-up care is part of this trial? If I benefit from the intervention, will I be allowed to continue receiving it after the trial ends? Will results of the study be provided to me? Who will oversee my medical care while I am in the trial? What are my options if I am injured during the study? More + Who conducts clinical studies? Every clinical study is led by a principal investigator, who is often a medical doctor. Clinical studies also have a research team that may include doctors, nurses, social workers and other health care professionals. Clinical studies can be sponsored, or funded, by pharmaceutical companies, academic medical centers, voluntary groups and other organizations, in addition to Federal agencies such as the National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Defense and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Physicians, health care providers and other individuals can also sponsor clinical research. Where are clinical studies conducted? Clinical studies can take place in many locations, including hospitals, universities, doctors’ offices and community clinics. The location depends on who is conducting the study. How long do clinical studies last? The length of a clinical study varies, depending on what is being studied. Participants are told how long the study will last before enrolling. How does a clinical study affect my usual health care? Typically, participants continue to see their usual health care providers while enrolled in a clinical study. While most clinical studies provide participants with medical products or interventions related to the illness or condition being studied, they do not provide extended or complete health care. By having the participant’s usual health care provider work with the research team, the participant can make sure that the study protocol will not conflict with other medications or treatments being received. How are participants protected? Informed consent is a process in which researchers provide potential and enrolled participants with information about a clinical study. This information helps people decide whether they want to enroll, or continue to participate, in the study. The informed consent process is intended to protect participants and should provide enough information for a person to understand the risks of, potential benefits of, and alternatives to the study. In addition to the informed consent document, the process may involve recruitment materials, verbal instructions, question-and-answer sessions and activities to measure participant understanding. In general, a person must sign an informed consent document before entering a study to show that he or she was given information on risks, potential benefits and alternatives and understands it. Signing the document and providing consent is not a contract. Participants may withdraw from a study at any time, even if the study is not over. Each federally supported or conducted clinical study and each study of a drug, biological product or medical device regulated by FDA must be reviewed, approved and monitored by an institutional review board (IRB). An IRB is made up of physicians, researchers and members of the community. Its role is to make sure that the study is ethical and the rights and welfare of participants are protected. This includes making sure that research risks are minimized and are reasonable in relation to any potential benefits, among other things. The IRB also reviews the informed consent document. In addition to being monitored by an IRB, some clinical studies are also monitored by data monitoring committees (also called data safety and monitoring boards). Various Federal agencies, including the Office of Human Subjects Research Protection (OHRP) and FDA, have the authority to determine whether sponsors of certain clinical studies are adequately protecting research participants. Ohio State's Office of Responsible Research Practices All Ohio State University clinical trials are overseen by the university’s Office of Responsible Research Practices (ORRP), a unit of The Ohio State University Office of Research. ORRP supports the University’s goals of promoting the ethical conduct of research involving human and animal subjects. The ORRP provides administrative support for: University researcher education on the regulatory and ethical requirements for conducting clinical research Pre-review of protocol submissions for compliance with regulatory requirements The university’s research review boards Implementation of the university’s conflict of interest policy Conduct of the university’s classified research and contract activities Institutional Review All clinical trials at Ohio State are evaluated, approved and monitored by an Institutional Review Board (IRB) under the ORRP. Ohio State has three IRBs – one each for biomedical sciences, cancer and behavioral and social sciences. These boards are staffed by physicians, scientists, patient advocates, clergy, community members and other health care providers who are collectively responsible for overseeing the protection of human subjects in research. In addition, the Clinical Trials Office (CTO) of Ohio State’s Comprehensive Cancer Center – James Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute (OSUCCC-James) facilitates development and implementation of all OSUCCC-James clinical trials. By providing regulatory processing, subject recruitment, financial development, data collection and protocol-management services, the CTO fosters a supportive environment conducive to conducting clinical trials in a methodologically sound, expedient and cost-effective manner. Although enrollment in clinical trials at Ohio State is higher than the national average, the University is working to increase patient participation. For more information, visit Ohio State's Office of Responsible Research Practices. Share this Page Subscribe. Get tips from Ohio State experts right to your inbox. Email address First name Last name Date of birth ZIP code Gender Male Female Prefer not to say Validation By clicking "Subscribe" you agree to our Terms of Use. Thank you! Look for your first email in your inbox soon. We'll be in touch every so often with health tips, patient stories, important resources and other information you need to keep you and your family healthy. Welcome to our online community here at the Ohio State Wexner Medical Center! Facebook Twitter Instagram For Patients Appointments Pay a Bill MyChart Find a Doctor Health Care Services Locations Patient and Visitor Guide Health and Wellness About Us MyHealth For Providers Refer a Patient Ohio State CareLink Departments Helpful Links Current Openings Media Room Ways To Give Quality and Safety Contact Us Related Sites OSUCCC - James College of Medicine The Ohio State University Ohio State Health & Discovery MyChart Copyright © 2022 The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center Cookie Settings Privacy Policy Terms of Use Public Notices Disability Access Vendor Interaction Patient Rights Notice of Non Discrimination Sitemap If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact our webmaster at webmaster@osumc.edu.