Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program in Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Contact Us Women's.Gender.and.Sexuality.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Back to Top Nav Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Jacqueline D. Wernimont |Associate Professor Academic Appointments Distinguished Chair, Digital Humanities and Social Engagement Associate Professor, Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Co-Director, HASTAC I specialize in long histories of digital media, histories of quantification, and technologies of commemoration. I am an active part of the FemTechNet collective. I am part of several collaborative projects, each of which is in my projects section. My book, Numbered Lives: Life and Death in Quantum Media (MIT Press, 2018) traces long histories (21st century to 16th century) of particular technologies like wearable devices, body measurements, and body counts. With Elizabeth Losh I also co-edited Bodies of Information: Feminist Debates in Digital Humanities, which is part of the University of Minnesota Debates in Digital Humanities series. I took a Ph.D. and M.A. in English Literature from Brown University and a B.A. in English from the University of Iowa, where I also studied Molecular Biology. I cut my digital humanities teeth at the Brown University Women Writers Project, where I began as an encoder and later worked as the project manager and textbase editor. Prior to Dartmouth, I taught at Harvey Mudd College, Scripps College, and Arizona State University. I can be reached at Jacqueline.D.Wernimont(at)Dartmouth(dot)edu or on twitter @profwernimont + View more Personal Website Contact Jacqueline.D.Wernimont@Dartmouth.edu HB 6194 Education B.A. University of Iowa M.A. Brown University Ph. D. Brown University Areas of Expertise History of Science and Technology /Digital Humanities /Gender and Race in the History of Science and Technology /Media Studies /Literary and Cultural History of Early Modern England Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Women's, Gender, &amp; Sexuality Studies Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback