Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program in Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Contact Us Women's.Gender.and.Sexuality.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Back to Top Nav Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Bethany Moreton Academic Appointments Professor of History Heilbroner Fellow in Capitalism Studies, New School for Social Research, 2020 Faculty Affiliate and Steering Committee Member, Program in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, Dartmouth Faculty Affiliate, Latin American, Latinx, and Caribbean Studies, Dartmouth Co-Editor (with Devin Fergus, Julia Ott, and Louis Hyman), Columbia University Press Studies in the History of U.S. Capitalism Organizing Collective Member, Tepoztlan Institute for the Transnational History of the Americas Distinguished Lecturer, Organization of American Historians Co-Founder, Freedom University Georgia Bethany Moreton is a series editor for Columbia University Press’s Studies in the History of U.S. Capitalism and the Spring 2020 Heilbroner Fellow in Capitalism Studies at the New School for Social Research in New York. Since receiving her doctorate in history at Yale in 2006, she has been a Visiting Scholar at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge and a fellow at the Harvard Divinity School and the Institute for Research in the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin. Her first book, To Serve God and Wal-Mart: The Making of Christian Free Enterprise (Harvard University Press, 2009) won the Frederick Jackson Turner Prize for best first book in U.S. history, the John Hope Franklin Award for the best book in American Studies, and the Emerging Scholar in the Humanities award from the University of Michigan. Her book Perverse Incentives: Economics as Culture War is forthcoming in the Near Futures series from Zone Books, and Slouching towards Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia is under contract at Harvard University Press; she is also at work on Jesus Saves: Christians in the Age of Debt. She is a founding member of the Tepoztlán Institute for the Transnational History of the Americas and a founding faculty member of Freedom University, which offers college coursework without charge to qualified Georgia high school graduates regardless of immigration status. Her most recent article, "Our Lady of Mont Pelerin: The 'Navarra School' of Catholic Neoliberalism," appears in Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics. Contact Bethany.E.Moreton@Dartmouth.edu 411 Carson Hall, phone 603-646-2141 HB 6107 Education PhD Yale University B.A. Williams College Selected Publications To Serve God and Wal-Mart: The Making of Christian Free Enterprise (Harvard University Press, May 2009). Devotions and Desires: Histories of Religion and Sexuality in the Twentieth Century United States, co-edited with Gill Frank and Heather White (University of North Carolina Press, 2017). "Our Lady of Mont Pelerin: The 'Navarra School' of Catholic Neoliberalism," Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics Volume 2, No. 1, WInter 2021, pp. 88-153. "Kochonomics: The Racist Origins of Public Choice Theory," Boston Review, August 10, 2017. Perverse Incentives: Economics as Culture War (in preparation, Zone Books/Near Futures (MIT Press). Slouching towards Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia (under contract, Harvard University Press). “So Goes the Nation: Southern Antecedents and the Future of Work,” Reviving Southern Labor History, ed. Keri Leigh Merritt and Matthew Hild (University Press of Florida, 2019). “Knute Gingrich, All American? White Evangelicals, U.S. Catholics, and the Religious Genealogy of Political Realignment” in Faithful Republic: Religion and Politics in Modern America, ed. Andrew Preston, Bruce Schulman, and Julian Zelizer (University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015). “S’More Inequality: The Neoliberal Marshmallow and the Corporate Reform of Education,” Social Text, issue 120 “Politically Unwilling,” Vol. 32, No. 3 120 (Fall 2014), pp. 29-48. “Learning from the Right: A New Operation Dixie?” co-authored with Pamela Voekel, in Richard Greenwald and Daniel Katz, eds., Labor Rising: The Past and Future of Working People in America (New Press, 2012). “A Matter of Some Interest: Payback and the Sterility of Capital,” Common Knowledge vol.17 no. 2, (March 2011). “Why Is There So Much Sex in Christian Conservatism and Why Do So Few Historians Care Anything about It?” Journal of Southern History 75th anniversary issue, v. 75, no. 3 (August, 2009). “Make Payroll, Not War: Business Culture as Youth Culture,” in Bruce Schulman and Julian Zelizer, eds., Rightward Bound: Making America Conservative in the 1970s (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2008). "The Soul of the Service Economy: Wal-Mart and the Making of Christian Free Enterprise, 1929-1994,” Enterprise & Society 8:4 (December, 2007). “The Soul of Neoliberalism,” Social Text v. 25, no. 3 92 (Fall 2007), pp. 103-123. “Vaya con Dios: Religion and the Transnational History of the Americas,” co-authored with Pamela Voekel, History Compass, Summer 2007. Chapter: “It Came from Bentonville: The Agrarian Origins of Wal-Mart Culture” in Nelson Lichtenstein, ed., Wal-Mart: The Face of Twenty-First Century Capitalism (New Press, 2006). + View more Speaking Engagements Yale University Working Group on Labor and Culture, paper presentation: “Slouching toward Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia,” May 18, 2020. Keynote, "Jesus Saves: Debt, Devotion, and Discipline," for conference "American Religious Studies and Histories of Capitalism," University of Virgina Jefferson Scholars Foundation, January 31, 2020. New School for Social Research Heilbroner Center for Capitalism Studies lecture “The Man in the Gray Hair Shirt: Self-Mortification and Neoliberal Soul-Craft,” May 7, 2020. Georgetown University Conference on Russia and the Global Culture Wars, “Slouching Towards Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia,” October 17-18, 2019. Princeton University Department of Religion Invited Conference “The Ties that Divide Us,” May 4, 2019. Baylor University History Department seminar, “Slouching towards Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia,” March 25, 2019. University of North Carolina Center for the Study of the American South, Southern Summit on the future of the field, May 14-15, 2018. University of Wisconsin Department of History Merle Curti Lecture, “Fifty Shades of Green: Sexing the History of Capitalism,” November 14, 15, & 16, 2018. New York University Institute for Public Knowledge, “Mother of Sorrows: Catholic Confederates, Russian Orthodoxy, and the Moral Economy of Ethnonationalism,” April 27, 2018. Keynote Panel, "Cultures of Conservatism in the United States and Western Europe between the 1970s and 1990s," Deutsches Historisches Institut London, September 2017. Princeton University Department of Religion, “Beyond Stonewall” Symposium, March 11, 2017. Indiana University 21st Annual Cultural Studies Conference keynote address, “Fifty Shades of Green: Sexing the History of Capitalism,” October 21, 2016. Princeton University Faith and Work Initiative of the Center for the Study of Religion, “Faith & Work in the New Economy: An Interdisciplinary Symposium on Religion and Work,” June 5-6, 2015. Harvard Business School/Harvard Divinity School joint faculty forum on To Serve God and Walmart: The Making of Christian Free Enterprise, March 10, 2015. École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, <<Journée d’étude : Marché des religions et religion(s) du marché aux États-Unis>>, October 31, 2014. Columbia University Center for the Study of Religion and Sexuality, “Market Value and Family Values,” February 24, 2014. Yale University Research Initiative on the History of Sexualities Symposium “Free Love, Free Markets,” February 20-21, 2014. Northwestern University Chabraja Center for Historical Studies, “Sanctifying Service: Spiritual Responses to Post-Industrial Work,” April 8, 2013. Vanderbilt University History Seminar, “Free Markets, Family Values, and the Theology of Work in Opus Dei,” January 28, 2013. Works In Progress Fifty Shades of Green: Sexing the History of Capitalism Near Futures, Zone Books/MIT Press, forthcoming. Slouching Towards Moscow: American Evangelicals and the Romance of Russia (Harvard University Press) Jesus Saves: Christians in the Age of Debt Courses From Walmart to Wall Street: Excavating the American Economy since 1970 Women, Work, and Wealth United States Political History in the Twentieth Century History of Sexuality in America America in the 1970s + View more Related Links Our Lady of Mont Pelerin: The 'Navarra School' of Neoliberalism, Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics, Volume 2, No. 1 What Do We Miss When We Call Them "Culture Wars?" Columbia University Press Studies in the History of U.S. Capitalism MIT Media Lab Disobedience Award Freedom University Georgia Tepoztlan Institute for the Transnational History of the Americas Interfaith Worker Justice (holder of 50% royalty rights to To Serve God and Walmart) Economic Justice Coalition of Athens (holder of 50% royalty rights to To Serve God and Walmart) Labor and Working Class History Association Kochonomics: The Racist Origins of Public Choice Theory (book review) The Rise and Fall of the Job (op-ed) OAH Distinguished Lecturer Program + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Women's, Gender, &amp; Sexuality Studies Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback