Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program in Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Contact Us Women's.Gender.and.Sexuality.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Back to Top Nav Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Oct. 11, 2021 - Sexual Citizens: Sex, Power, and Assault on Campus The Program in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies is hosting a visit by Jennifer Hirsch of Columbia University and Shamus Khan of Princeton University to discuss their critically acclaimed book, Sexual Citizens: Sex, Power, and Assault on Campus. PreviousNext A recording of this event can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/_ayNyF1WkrU. On October 11, 2021, 4:30–6 p.m., the Program in Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies will host a conversation in Filene Auditorium with Jennifer Hirsch, Professor of Socio-Medical Sciences at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University; Shamus Khan, Professor of Sociology and American Studies at Princeton University; Mingwei Huang, Assistant Professor of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Dartmouth College; and Misty De Berry, Lecturer of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Dartmouth College. RVSPs are required for in-person attendance. Due to social distancing measures, space is limited for this event. Please contact wgss@dartmouth.edu with inquiries. The event will be livestreamed. Thank you to our co-sponsors: The Student and Presidential Commission on Sexual Assault The Ethics Institute The Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning The Nelson A. Rockefeller Center for Public Policy and the Social Sciences jennifer.jpg Jennifer S. Hirsch is a professor of socio-medical sciences at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University. Her research spans five intertwined domains: the anthropology of love; gender, sexuality, and migration; sexual, reproductive, and HIV risk practices; social scientific research on sexual assault and undergraduate well-being, and the intersections between anthropology and public health. She is one of New York City's 16 'Heroes in the Fight Against Gender-Based Violence.' In 2012 she was selected as a Guggenheim Fellow. You can read more about her work here. shamus.jpg Shamus Khan is a professor of Sociology and American Studies at Princeton University. He is the author of dozens of books and articles on inequality, American Culture, gender, and elites. His work has appeared in The New Yorker, The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN, and many other media outlets. In 2018 he was awarded the Hans L. Zetterberg Prize for "the best sociologist under 40." You can read more of his work at shamuskhan.com Tags: Events Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Women's, Gender, &amp; Sexuality Studies Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback