Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program in Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Contact Us Women's.Gender.and.Sexuality.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Back to Top Nav Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search People Filter by: - Any -facultyaffiliated facultypostdoctoral fellowspredoctoral fellowsstaff Apply Reset faculty Zahra Ayubi Associate Professor of Religion view profile Robert M. Baum Associate Professor of Religion and African and African American Studies view profile Sabrina Joan Billings Senior Lecturer of Anthropology view profile Deborah Jordan Brooks Associate Professor of Government view profile Kimberly Juanita Brown Associate Professor view profile Jorge E. Cuéllar Faculty Fellow & Assistant Professor, Latin American, Latino & Caribbean Studies Faculty Fellow, Consortium of Studies in Race, Migration & Sexuality (RMS) view profile Misty De Berry Senior Lecturer, Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Artist-in-Residence, Consortium for the Study of Race, Migration and Sexuality view profile Laura Edmondson Professor of Theater Affiliated with African & African American Studies view profile Veronika Fuechtner Interim Chair of Jewish Studies Associate Professor of German Studies view profile Rachel L. Greenblatt view profile Mingwei Huang Assistant Professor, Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Faculty Fellow, Dartmouth Consortium of Studies in Race, Migration, and Sexuality view profile Chelsey L. Kivland Associate Professor of Anthropology view profile Eng-Beng Lim Associate Professor of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies view profile Tyler S. Monson view profile Douglas J. Moody Senior Lecturer in Spanish and Portuguese Languages and Literatures Lecturer in Writing view profile Abigail H. Neely Assistant Professor of Geography Affiliated Faculty African and African American Studies view profile Claudia Olivetti George J. Records 1956 Professor of Economics view profile Annelise Orleck Professor of History view profile Emi Sawada Lecturer view profile Darius Scott Assistant Professor of Geography view profile Patricia Rachael Stuelke Assistant Professor of English view profile Dennis Charles Washburn Professor of Comparative Literature, Asian Societies Cultures and Languages, & Film Studies Burlington Northern Foundation Professor in Asian Studies in Honor of Richard M. Bressler ‘52 view profile affiliated faculty Francine M. A'ness Lecturer in Women's and Gender Studies Lecturer in Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies view profile Susan Ackerman Preston H. Kelsey Professorship in Religion Professor of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies view profile Txetxu Aguado Associate Professor of Spanish and Portuguese view profile Lisa Baldez Professor of Government and Latin American, Latino, and Caribbean Studies view profile Faith E. Beasley Professor of French view profile Rebecca Elizabeth Biron Director of Leslie Center for the Humanities Professor, Spanish and Portuguese. Joint Title in Comparative Literature view profile Colleen Glenney Boggs Parents Distinguished Research Professor in the Humanities Professor of English view profile Lynda E. Boose Professor of English view profile Susan J. Brison Eunice and Julian Cohen Professor for the Study of Ethics and Human Values Professor of Philosophy view profile Ann Bumpus Senior Lecturer, Philosophy, IWR, WGSS view profile Leslie Butler Associate Professor of History view profile Nancy L. Canepa Associate Professor of French and Italian view profile Hazel V. Carby view profile Michelle T. Clarke Associate Professor of Government view profile Mary K. Coffey Professor of Art History Affiliated Faculty, Latin American, Latino, and Caribbean Studies Program view profile Ada Cohen Department Chair Professor of Art History, Israel Evans Professor in Oratory and Belles Lettres view profile Erin E. Collins Assistant Professor view profile Ayo A. Coly Professor, Comparative Literature & African and African American Studies Chair, Program in African & African American Studies view profile Sienna R. Craig Professor, Department of Anthropology House Professor, South House view profile Mary R. Desjardins Professor, Department of Film and Media Studies view profile Alka Dev view profile Carolyn Dever Professor of English view profile Gabriele Dietze Visiting Professor Harris German Dartmouth Distinguished Visiting Professor view profile Mona Domosh Professor of Geography Joan P. and Edward J. Foley Jr. 1933 Professorship view profile Alysia Garrison Assistant Professor of English view profile Angela Patricia Hernandez Anguita Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Program view profile Susannah Heschel Chair, Jewish Studies Program Eli M. Black Distinguished Professor of Jewish Studies view profile Lynn A. Higgins Edward Tuck Professor of French Professor of Comparative Literature and Film Studies view profile Alexis Jetter Lecturer view profile Irene Kacandes Professor of German Studies Professor of Comparative Literature view profile Deborah Karyn King Associate Professor of Sociology view profile Amy Lawrence Professor of Film and Media Studies view profile Kathryn J. Lively Professor of Sociology view profile Christopher MacEvitt Chair, Middle Eastern Studies Program Professor of Religion view profile Annabel Martín Associate Professor of Spanish Associate Professor of Comparative Literature view profile Janice M. McCabe Associate Professor of Sociology Affiliated with Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies view profile Klaus J. Milich Senior Lecturer, American Literary and Cultural Studies view profile Sam Moodie view profile Bethany Moreton Professor of History Heilbroner Fellow in Capitalism Studies, New School for Social Research, 2020 view profile Eman Shaban Morsi Assistant Professor MES, CompLit, WGSS, LALACS view profile Giavanna Munafo Senior Lecturer, Women's and Gender Studies view profile Sara Muñoz-Muriana Associate Professor of Spanish view profile Kristin O'Rourke Senior Lecturer view profile Reiko Ohnuma Robert 1932 and Barbara Black Professor of Religion Chair, Department of Religion view profile Susan C. Overton view profile Vera B. Palmer Senior Lecturer view profile Graziella Parati Professor of Italian Professor of Comparative Literature view profile Julia Rabig Associate Professor, History Department Affiliate, African and African American Studies view profile Gil Raz Associate Professor of Religion view profile Israel Reyes Associate Professor of Spanish and Portuguese Director of Fellowships, Office of the Provost view profile Esther M. Rosario Lecturer view profile Julie L. Rose Associate Professor of Government view profile Naaborko Sackeyfio-Lenoch Associate Professor of History view profile Ivy Schweitzer Professor of English and Creative Writing Women's, Gender and Sexuality Program view profile Jeff Sharlet Frederick Sessions Beebe '35 Professor in the Art of Writing Director of Creative Writing view profile Andrew G. Simon Lecturer and Research Associate view profile Walter P. Simons Professor of History view profile Kristin E. Smith Visiting Associate Professor of Sociology view profile Silvia Spitta Director Comparative Literature Master's Program Robert E. Maxwell 1923 Professor of Arts and Sciences view profile Roberta L. Stewart Professor of Classical Studies view profile Andrea Tarnowski Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature Director, Humanities 1 & 2 view profile Emily Walton Associate Professor of Sociology view profile Michelle R. Warren Senior Advisor for Faculty Development, Diversity, and Inclusion – Arts and Sciences Professor of Comparative Literature view profile Jacqueline D. Wernimont Distinguished Chair, Digital Humanities and Social Engagement Associate Professor, Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies view profile Barbara Will Vice Provost for Academic Initiatives A. and R. Newbury Professor of English view profile Mark J. Williams Associate Professor of Film and Media Studies Director of The Media Ecology Project (MEP) view profile Melissa F. Zeiger Associate Professor of English view profile postdoctoral fellows Carolyn S. Choi Fellow view profile Najwa Mayer Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow view profile Sa Whitley Research Associate and Lecturer view profile staff Bevan Dunbar Program Administrator view profile predoctoral fellows MT Vallarta view profile Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Women's, Gender, &amp; Sexuality Studies Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback