Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Program in Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies Contact Us Women's.Gender.and.Sexuality.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Back to Top Nav Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Zahra Ayubi Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Religion Connect with Us Twitter Zahra Ayubi is a scholar of women and gender in premodern and modern Islamic ethics. She specializes in feminist philosophy of Islam and has published on gendered concepts of ethics, justice, and religious authority, and on Muslim feminist thought and American Muslim women’s experiences. Her first book, Gendered Morality: Classical Islamic Ethics of the Self, Family, and Society (Columbia, 2019) rethinks the tradition of Islamic philosophical ethics from a feminist critical perspective. Developing a lens for a feminist philosophy of Islam, Ayubi analyzes constructions of masculinity, femininity, and gender relations in classic works of philosophical ethics by Abu Hamid Muhammad al-Ghazali, Nasir-ad Din Tusi, and Jalal ad-Din Davani. She interrogates how these thinkers conceive of the ethical human being as an elite male within a hierarchical cosmology built on the exclusion of women and nonelites. She calls for a philosophical turn in the study of gender in Islam based on resources for gender equality that are unlocked by feminist engagement with the Islamic ethical tradition. Her next book project, Women as Humans: Authority and Gendered Ontology in Islamic Medical Ethics, is being supported by a three-year grant from the Greenwall Foundation Faculty Scholars Program. The project is a textual and ethnographic study of gender and gendered experiences in Muslim biomedical ethics. In addition to a focus on practical ethics, in this project she examines what are Muslim ontological, metaphysical, and existential conceptions of women. Professor Ayubi teaches courses on Islam, gender in Islamic texts/Muslim thought, transnational Muslim feminist movements, and the core course in WGSS, Sex, Gender & Society. + View more Personal Website Contact Zahra.Ayubi@Dartmouth.edu HB 6036 Education B.A. Brandeis University M.A. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Ph.D. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Areas of Expertise Islamic Studies /Gender and Islam /Islamic Ethics & Philosophy /Islamic Bioethics Selected Publications Gendered Morality: Classical Islamic Ethics of the Self, Family, and Society, Columbia University Press, 2019. “Rearing Gendered Souls: Childhood and the Making of Muslim Manhood in Pre-Modern Islamic Ethics.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion. December 2019, Vol. 87, No. 4, pp. 1178–1208 doi:10.1093/jaarel/lfz072 "Muslim Ethics of Neonatal Care: Decision Making and Gender" in Religion and the Newborn. Ronald Green and George Little Eds. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 2019 “Shifting Boundaries: The Study of Islam in the Humanities” Muslim World 106:4 (October 2016): 643-654; with Ilyse Morgenstein Fuerst. "Owning Terms of Leadership and Authority: Toward a Gender Inclusive Framework of American Muslim Religious Authority" in A Jihad for Justice: Honoring Work and Life of Amina Wadud. Laury Silvers, Kecia Ali, and Juliane Hammer, Eds., 2012. "Rereading Islamic Medieval Philosophy for Ethical Gender Relations in Modernity" Proceedings of the Religious and Philosophical Texts Symposium. Faculty of Theology, Istanbul University. 2012. "Negotiating Justice: American Muslim Women Navigating Islamic Divorce and Civil Law." Journal for Islamic Studies. Vol. 30, 2010. 78-102. "Specific Issues in Muslim Divorce." The Family Law Review: Family Law Section of the State Bar of Georgia. December 2006. 1-5. + View more Works In Progress Deciding for Women: Gender and Authority in Islamic Biomedical Ethics Courses Gender in Islam Religion and Gender Transnational Muslim Feminisms: History, Religion, and Praxis American Islam WGSS 10 Sex, Gender and Society + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Program in Women's, Gender, &amp; Sexuality Studies Undergraduate Overview Major Modified Major Minor Honors Program Honors Thesis Guidelines Past Honors Theses Courses Previous Terms Associated Courses Independent Study Transfer Credit Alumni Stories Tell Us Your News Research Overview Gender Research Institute at Dartmouth Resources News & Events News & Events Annual Stonewall Lecture Past Lecture Series People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback