COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Centered. Innovation Driven.Learn how Wichita State students are changing the world » Stop Video What are you interested in? Find Majors & Programs Interactive Virtual Tour Schedule A Visit Calculate Cost The Wichita State difference Applied Learning As a Shocker, you'll get the chance to work side-by-side with established professionals, building contacts, confidence and a strong resume before graduation. Learn more Research With more than 30 renowned centers and institutes and state-of-the-art labs and research facilities, Wichita State students do real research that impacts the community, the economy and people's lives. Learn more Innovation At Wichita State, our students are the engine of innovation, with a collaborative infrastructure that helps develop new ideas, and get new projects and businesses off the ground. Learn more By the numbers High quality and affordable tuition make Wichita State a great value. We're among the most affordable four-year colleges and universities in the U.S. See how we stack up Wichita State continues to rise in the National Science Foundation's ranking of U.S. college engineering R&D expenditures Learn more For 10 straight years, WSU has been the top transfer destination for Kansas community college students. Potential transfer students can see how the credits they have already taken can apply to different degrees by using our Transfer Gateway. Learn more Since 2010, Wichita State University is one of the fastest-growing research universities in the United States. Learn more Happening at Wichita State Latest WSU News Upcoming Events Graduate Profiles Shocker graduates and what's next for their future esports WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program College of Engineering WSU engineering graduate program among Top 60 in the nation Access and Affordability WSU expands tuition discount programs to 11 additional cities, three new states Why Wichita State? Learn more about Wichita StateWSU Fast Facts 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©