Skip to main content COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quicklinks Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Support Form Website Support Articles Website Training Training Videos Web Guides Academic Calendar Apply Now! Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu AcademicsAdmissionsStudent LifeAthleticsAboutApply Now Support Form Website Support Articles Website Training Training Videos Web Guides Support Form In This Section Support Form Accessibility Exceptions Request Categories CMS Training Videos Course Design Form Course Design Inbox Course Design Mega Inbox Events Faculty Forms and Information Current known issues None. Website Support Request This is for handling trouble ticket requests from WSU people. "*" indicates required fields Request Type * Required Select OneUser AccessShort URLSite TroubleSearch / Best BetMarketingBroken LinkOther Name * Required First Last Email * Required MyWSU ID * Required HiddenUser IP Address HiddenUser Agent (browser) Short URL Shortcuts Add up to three shortcuts and destinations at a time. Use multiple submissions for more than that. Shortcut url Actual url Actions Edit Delete There are no Shortcuts. Add Shortcut Add Shortcut Maximum number of shortcuts reached. HiddenShortcut What follows https://wichita.edu HiddenShortcut destination URL - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com The full url of where you want the shortcut to point. It doesn't have to be on wichita.edu. User Access Department The group that you work for. Supervisor's Name * Required First Last Supervisor's Email * Required File/Folder for Access - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required Additional comments Need other folders and stuff, too? Ok. Put your most important one in the url field above and let us know anything else down here. Search Results Changes These are ONLY for search results on the search form at https://wichita.edu/search/ Title * Required Just a short subject for the help request. Description * Required Tell us in your own words what is going on. Example url - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required Keywords * Required Words and phrases separated commas Broken Link Page That Contains Bad Link - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required On what page did you find the bad link? The actual bad link - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required Other information Is there anything else we need to know? Request Title * Required Just a short subject for the help request. Description * Required Tell us in your own words what is going on. Link to issue - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required Supporting Files Add any screenshots or whathaveyous that you need to tell us what's going on. Drop files here or Select files Max. file size: 8 MB. Priority All requests will be responded to as soon as possible, but help us sort the wheat from the chaff a little. Low — Not a major problemMedium — I'd like it fixed soonHigh — This is very important to the universityCritical — This is critical to our ability to do business HiddenResolution Δ Tips For Better Web Pages Make use of training resources, including open labs Don’t worry if you don’t get it all the first time, it takes a little practice. Visit https://wichita.edu/webtraining to sign up for Basic Training 1 and Basic Training 2, to learn how to use the CMS. You can also sign up for Open Labs, which are great for answering questions you run into while working on your website. Website reference guides are available at: 1. Snippets, image guidelines digital messaging, etc 2. Video Training Library 3. OmniCMS Terms Glossary 4. OmniCMS FAQs Use the support form (above) when you need help Please don’t go it alone. If you’re struggling and spinning your wheels, let us know and we can help. We’re super friendly, and we love to help, so find the “Web Support” link in the footer of every page on wichita.edu. Sometimes you may run into something that you’re not able to fix on your own. It might be that it requires technical know-how beyond the typical CMS user. Use images Did you know that Wichita State has an license to Adobe Creative Cloud? If you don’t have a photo editing tool on your computer, you can request Adobe CC (including Photoshop) from Information Technology Services (ITS). If you’re unsure how to crop your image sizes, the Standard Page Snippets Guide and Landing Page Snippets Guide have examples of snippets and the image sizes that work best in them. Be sure to use good alt text. It’s as simple as describing the image to someone who can’t see it. If it has text information that isn’t repeated in the text of the article it’s with, tell them what the text says. If you’re unsure where to find some images for your website, utilize the WSU Photo Bank. WSU Profiles tips View the full guide on WSU Profiles. Contact us via the Web Support form (above) to change the “In This Section” menu to automatically be just like your department’s main “In This Section” menu — that way you only have to manage one, and users have a more seamless experience. Don’t create duplicate profiles for one person. People may be in multiple groups for many reasons, but Profiles is designed so that we only have one profile per person. Simply use the “Add extra profiles” to a Profile Listing Page template to add people from other areas of campus to your group’s listing. Utilize the automatic profiles group snippet. This snippet (available on landing or standard pages) is handy if you a) want very specific control over the order in which people are listed, b) already have an existing contact page where you want to add profiles or c) want to add a sidebar to your listing page (use standard page template with an automatic profile groups snippet to achieve this). The Bookmarks Gadget in OmniCMS can help you bookmark your profile or your department’s profiles folder. You can also use bookmarks all over the site, so you don’t have to navigate through the same folders every time you have to update a commonly visited page or site folder. Use Shortcuts To request a shorter URL for an existing webpage, select “Short URL” from the Request Type dropdown on the Web Support form below. Did you move, rename or delete a page or directory? Submit a Short URL form with the “Shortcut URL” as the old name (the full url) and the “Actual URL” for the new name (the full url). 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 987-3456 Request Info Visit Apply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions facebook twitter instagram youtube Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself. Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & Friends Give to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Policy Campus Safety Accessibility WSU Public Information site Website Support Settlement Info KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. This is a form for nested forms for website support Shortcut url - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required The Shortcut that you want Actual url - enter a valid website URL for example https://www.google.com * Required Δ