COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Granting Student Records Access to Others (Proxy) Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Granting Student Record Access to Others (Online FERPA Release to a Proxy) Under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), parents do not have access to their student's collegiate educational record unless the student provides consent. In an effort to meet the needs of WSU students and parents, and to encourage students to safeguard their myWSU username and password, the Office of the Registrar is pleased to offer an online process for students to authorize access. Students wanting to release non-directory information to parents, employers, or other specified individuals, referred to as proxies, may do so online by logging into the secure myWSU portal at: mywsu.wichita.edu Students can choose to authorize different levels of view access to one or multiple third-party individuals (proxies). Options include view access to their grades, schedule of classes, financial aid information, and more. The student can also authorize WSU to discuss these items with the proxy. The student is in control of who has access, what they can see, what they can discuss with WSU, and for how long they have this access. The default for proxy access is six years as long as the student remains active for that duration. Proxy access will be ended whenever a student’s record is inactivated either due to graduation or non-attendance within the past two years. See below for more information on the authorizations available and what information each contains. Once the setup is complete, the proxy will receive email instructions on how to access a separate, secure online portal. This portal requires a log in to view the information pages to which the student has granted them access. Once the setup is complete, the parent or other defined proxy will be able to view, but not change, the information on the authorized pages. Student Instructions: How to Set Up a Proxy Proxy Instructions: How to Access Authorized Student Information Log into WSU's Proxy Access System Proxy Access Authorization Options Below are the authorization options that a student can allow a proxy to view or discuss along with the description of what each option includes. General Access Student Profile Allows proxy to view all of the following general information about the student: biographical information including email address, race, and citizenship general information including student level (e.g., UG, GR), status (e.g., active, inactive), residency, and attendance terms graduation information including any awarded degrees and when those were earned curriculum - includes primary and secondary major(s), certificate(s), etc. cumulative hours & GPA (institutional, transfer, and overall) prior education information - includes only secondary education school name, graduation date, location, and GPA testing information - includes test scores like ACT, SAT, etc. Student Week at a Glance Allows proxy to view a calendar view by week of registered courses that include a meeting day and time. Viewable information includes course title, location, and time. Student Detail Schedule Allows proxy to view a detailed schedule information for all registered courses for the selected term. Viewable items include course title, subject code and course number (e.g., ENGL 101), term, CRN, status, instructor, grade mode, credits, level, campus, schedule meeting times, location, schedule type (e.g., lecture, lab), and date range. Student Holds If student has a hold on their account, allows proxy to view hold type, from and to date, reason, originator, and processes affected (e.g., registration, transcripts, etc.). Student Grades Includes final grades that have been posted to the student’s record for the selected term. Student: I give permission for WSU to discuss the above selected items with my Proxy when correct passphrase is provided Gives permission for WSU to discuss the same General Access items that the proxy has been authorized to view. The proxy must provide the correct passphrase as established by the student. If a passphrase was set, the proxy received it via email. If the proxy does not know the passphrase, they should contact the student. To discuss the authorized General Access items, contact the Office of the Registrar at (316) 978-3055. Financial Aid Access Financial Aid Dashboard Includes information about any financial aid holds and student requirements (unsatisfied and satisfied). Financial Aid Award Offer Includes an overview of the financial aid offer for the selected academic year. Viewable items include the Expected Family Contribution (EFC), the estimated Cost of Attendance (including billable and non-billable items), the estimated enrollment status level (such as full-time, half-time, etc.), the types and amounts of financial aid offered, accepted, cancelled, withdrawn, and declined, the estimated net costs before and after loan offers, and outside scholarships estimated and actual amounts received. Proxies can view, but not take action on the award offer section. Financial Aid Award History Includes an overview of all financial aid received at Wichita State for the past five years, including grants, loans, scholarships, and work study funds. Financial Aid Resources Includes additional information and terms and conditions for offered financial aid programs, such as specific loans, grants, and scholarships. Financial Aid Notifications Includes active financial aid notifications, messages, and withdrawal information for the selected aid year. Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress Includes information about the student’s Satisfactory Academic Progress for financial aid, which is based on the student’s academic performance and completion of courses. Financial Aid College Financing Plan Includes a summary of the estimated cost of attendance and offered financial aid in a standard template prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education. Financial Aid: I give permission for WSU to discuss the selected items with my Proxy when correct passphrase is provided Gives permission for WSU to discuss the same Financial Aid items that the proxy has been authorized to view. The proxy must provide the correct passphrase as established by the student. If a passphrase was set, the proxy received it via email. If the proxy does not know the passphrase, they should contact the student. To discuss the authorized Financial Aid items, contact the Office of Financial Aid at (316) 978-3430. Student Account Access I give permission for WSU to discuss billing, payment and tax activity with my Proxy when correct passphrase is provided Gives permission for WSU to discuss billing, payment and tax activity with the proxy when correct passphrase is provided The proxy must provide the correct passphrase as established by the student. If a passphrase was set, the proxy received it via email. If the proxy does not know the passphrase, they should contact the student. To discuss the Student Account items, contact the Student Accounts office at (316) 978-3333. Student may also establish a guest user account in the Student Account suite, which is separate from the proxy system. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©