COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Policies Section Menu Wichita State Tuition and Fees College Fees Department Fees Policies Other Tuition and Fees Housing Fees Residency for Tuition Purposes Financial Aid / Cost Estimator Accounts Receivable Comprehensive Fee Schedule Prior Years of Tuition Financial Operations The Associate Vice President for Financial Services is responsible for the assessment and collection of fees. All semester fees, including laboratory fees, are due and payable in full at registration. Payment-Related Fees Fee Type Cost Installment Payment Setup Fee (Tuition & Fees, nonrefundable) per person/per plan $30.00 Return Check Fee per check $30.00 Third Party Billing Fee per entity $30.00 Excessive Administrative Fee per person $20.00 Auditing Course Fees Tuition and fees per credit hour for courses and workshops audited are the same as for courses taken for credit. Contracts and Compensatory Charges This schedule does not limit the charges that may be collected under the arrangements with other governmental or private agencies, except that such arrangements may not provide for lesser charges. Tuition or other charges to more nearly cover actual costs of instruction are specifically authorized. No tuition is charged to students enrolled in instructional programs for which the entire cost, including faculty, is financed by governmental or private agencies. Students enrolled in such programs on campus must pay all required student fees. Department Cost-Recovery Fees All departmental charges for specific goods and services (i.e., photocopy, optional instructional materials, placement office user fees, building use fees, summer orientation sessions, academic transcripts, registration fees, etc.) not explicitly identified herein will be priced at an amount that approximates actual costs. Late Fees All accounts with a balance greater than $150.00 from tuition, enrollment related fees, or housing charges assessed in the current term will incur a $100.00 late fee on the first business day after the published payment due date. The payment due date for tuition and enrollment related fees will coincide with the Financial Aid Office's recalculation date, the Registrar's Office late enrollment date, and the Financial Operations' Office 100 percent refund date for 16-week courses. The payment due date for housing charges is stated in the housing contract. All delinquent accounts with a balance due greater than $150.00 from tuition, enrollment related fees, or housing charges will incur a late payment fee of $100.00 ninety (90) calendar days into the current term. Board of Appeals Residency Status Two faculty members, a department Director, a representative of the Office of Financial Operations and Business Technology, and a representative of the General Counsel's Office constitute the Board of Appeals for students who believe their residency status has been incorrectly assessed. The decision of this committee is final. Forms to initiate this process may be obtained in the Registrar's Office, 102 Jardine Hall. Unpaid Fees Students who leave Wichita State University without meeting financial obligations to the University will have their records impounded by the Registrar and their account may be sent to a collection agency resulting in additional fees. Their transcripts or diplomas will not be issued unless their account is cleared, and they may not enroll for a new term unless all fees are paid. Students who are eligible to graduate but still have unpaid tuition balances will not receive their diploma until those fees are paid. Record and Enrollment Holds When necessary, the University may withhold a student's official transcript and/or permission to re-enroll for the nonpayment of tuition and fees, loans, other charges and for failure to return University property. Students may be required to pay collection agency and attorney fees and all other charges necessary for the collection, as allowed by law, of any amount not paid. Drop/Add Fee Policy Students who drop credits in the same term and do not add credits will be charged the proportional percentage based on the week they drop the credits. Students who drop and add credits in the same term will not be required to pay additional tuition/fees if the following conditions are met: The drop and add occurs in one transaction; and There are an equal number of credit hours added as are being dropped and the credit hours have an equivalent charge. A course that has been added in accordance with parts 1 and 2, and is subsequently dropped, will retain the same refund percentage as the original course dropped. Students who drop the added course that met the above conditions will have an adjustment made to their account. (Example: A student drops course A and adds course B. Course A would have had a 0 percent refund; however, because conditions have been met, student receives a 100 percent refund for course A. Student then decides to drop course B. An adjustment is made to the account reversing the 100 percent refund received for course A.) Refund Policy - Complete and Partial Withdrawals All deadlines are expressed in terms of businesses days (Monday through Friday) – the specified number of business days beginning with the first business day of each Part of Term (POT). If a class starts on a Saturday or Sunday, the first business day is the following Monday (unless that is a holiday). A business day is any day that most university offices are open for business. For refund and RSTS code purposes, it does not matter if the business day is one when classes are in session or not. For Withdrawal with a W purposes, only business days when classes ARE in session are counted. To withdraw completely from the University, students must process withdrawals for all classes in which they are enrolled. Students are eligible for refunds as shown below: Number of weeks of course Number of Business Days to receive 100% refund 16-15 10 14 10 13 8 12 8 11 8 10 5 9 5 8 5 7 1/2 5 7 4 6 4 5 4 4 3 3 1 2 1 1 1 Less than 1 week 1 ACN (Accelerated Nursing) fall & spring summer 10 5 BG (Badge Full Term) fall spring November (TBD) April (TBD) EMBA (Executive MBA) 5 Guiding Principles In short-term classes, students will have the first class period to determine if the class is suited for them. Students who register late or fail to attend the first class period in short term classes will not be eligible for 100 percent refunds according to the policy. The first class day refers to the first day of the part of term as defined by the department and Registrar's Office; thereafter, the day refers to the business day. The length of the part-of-term determines the refund, not the start and end date of the course. When a course's part-of-term length falls between two of the above categories, then the shorter one is used. (Example: If course A part-of-term begins Monday and the actual course meets on Thursday, the refund business day begins with Monday, not Thursday. For an exception to this policy, student must complete the Petition for Exception to Tuition Refund Policy for Dropping Courses form.) If a short term class begins on Friday night, Saturday or Sunday, the student will have until the end of the first business day to drop the course. In order to receive a 100 percent refund for the class, the student must provide documentation that he/she did not attend more than four hours of the class. No one other than the Financial Operations and Business Technology Office or the Tuition Refund Board of Appeals is authorized to determine the amount of tuition refund a student will receive. Exceptions to the Refund Policy Students who, because of extenuating circumstances, seek a higher refund than is available by policy, must petition the Tuition Refund Board of Appeals. Petition forms are available at the myWSU myFinance tab or the Office of Financial Operations and Business Technology, 201 Jardine Hall. The petition must be filed with the appropriate documentation. A Petition for Tuition Refund beyond the policy must be filed at the Financial Operations and Business Technology Office within the semester the course was taken. Students who may have received approval from the University Exceptions Committee for a late withdrawal from a previous semester are not eligible by policy for a tuition refund. These are separate issues and decisions. Medical or military approvals will receive a 100% tuition refund. Yellow Ribbon Program WSU has joined the Yellow Ribbon Program, an initiative of the Department of Veteran Affairs through which WSU and the VA share in the cost of the difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition. This program will make it more affordable for a larger number of out-of-state students with military backgrounds to attend WSU. Military Refund Policy Students serving in the National Guard or Reserves who are called to active duty during an academic term are entitled to receive a full refund of tuition and fees. Students who are drafted and must report for active duty during an academic term are entitled to receive a full refund of tuition and fees. All refunds are subject to presentation of official documentation. Students who are classified as civilians, but choose to assist in nonmandatory U.S. military related efforts, are not covered by this exception and will be subject to the university's nonmilitary refund policy. Room and board charges will be prorated to the extent that services have been provided. The University will return any unearned tuition assistance (TA) funds by using the standard formula for determining the amount of TA earned by the institution. This is calculated on a percentage basis by dividing the number of days a student completes, based on the last date of attendance, by the total number of days in the course. This calculation, if less than the 60 percent completion rate, determines how much TA the student has earned and for how much the military branch may be invoiced. Should there be any remaining TA funds prior to the 60 percent period of a course, these funds will be reimbursed directly to the military branch from which the funds were provided, not to the student. Tuition Waiver for Kansas Teacher of the Year Kansas Teacher of the Year recipients are allowed to enroll tuition free in up to 9 credit hours annually provided the individual is actively pursuing a teaching career in Kansas. To be eligible, a person must be (1) a past or present recipient of the Kansas Teacher of the Year Award under the program administered by the Kansas Department of Education, and (2) employed as a teacher in an educational institution accredited by the Kansas Department of Education. A list of persons eligible for this tuition waiver is on file in the Board of Education Office. Student Fee Waivers Student fees shall be waived for all Wichita State University benefits-eligible employees, adjunct faculty members and lecturers. These university employees must have an appointment for the semester in which the student fee is applicable. Student fees shall be waived for enrolled students who are working in their Cooperative Education or Applied Learning job or who are performing a required clinical rotation or internship off the Wichita State University campus (defined as the City of Wichita, its contiguous industrial sites and the South and West Campuses) for the entire semester. Student employees and graduate assistants are not eligible for student fee waivers. Senior Citizen Fee Waiver In accordance with the Kansas Board of Regents policy, students who are at least 60 years of age may audit (no-credit) regular lecture or certain group activity courses – when there is space available and for which they meet the prerequisites – without payment of tuition and student fees, campus infrastructure and support fees, and technology and transportation fees. Occasionally, a course may have incidental costs for supplies needed to participate in class activities. In those cases, seniors will be responsible for those expenses. Prerequisites include admission to graduate school for graduate courses, and program admission for courses in which program admission is required of all students. Senior citizens must present a Medicare card or driver’s license to validate age. A special senior citizen registration is held after the first day of classes. Senior citizens desiring college credit or the assurance of space in specific courses may enroll and pay full fees during regular registration. Senior citizens who have not enrolled at WSU before must complete an Application for Admission and pay the application fee before registering at the undergraduate or graduate Admissions Office, $40.00 for undergraduate or $50.00 for graduate. Senior citizens who want to participate in at least one of the Human Performance Studies (HPS) 152 sections have three options: Purchase a membership in the Center for Physical Activity and Aging (CPAA), $50.00 for membership purchased at the HPS department. Enrollment through the Registrar's Office is not necessary. Those who want more complete access to Heskett Center and Ablah Library privileges may join the CPAA and enroll through the Registrar's Office with audit status in a zero credit hour section. Costs include $50.00 membership fee, $21.00 + tax Heskett Center fee paid at the Heskett Center, and any applicable workshop fees and lab/special course fees. Senior citizens may enroll in one class for full credit at a total cost of the current tuition and student fees, campus infrastructure and support fees, and technology and transportation fees. Members of the CPAA are eligible each semester for functional assessment testing of their ability to perform daily living activities and an annual bone density evaluation. Membership also provides education concerning the concepts of active aging to the older adult population through newsletters, workshops, lectures and exercise demonstrations. Tuition Waiver for Graduate Teaching Assistants Graduate teaching assistants (GTAs) are eligible for full or partial waiver of in-state tuition up to 12 graduate credit hours per semester (where they hold qualified assistantships) for courses numbered 500 and above. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©