COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Diplomas Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU Diplomas All certificate, bachelor's, master's and PhD diplomas are 8.5" high x 11" wide. The name on the diploma will read the same as the name submitted in the online application for degree, provided the Registrar’s office has a record of that name. Please contact jama.challans@wichita.edu if you have questions regarding your name on your diploma. The deadlines for submitting name changes are: Fall diplomas: February 1 Spring diplomas: June 1 Summer diplomas: September 1 Diplomas distribution dates are listed below. They can be picked up at the transcript window on the first floor in Jardine Hall on the Main Campus. If the distribution dates fall on a weekend or holiday, diplomas will be available the next business day. You must show identification to pick up your diploma and cover. Fall diplomas: Available starting February 15 Spring diplomas: Available starting July 15 Summer diplomas: Available starting September 8 If you wish to have your diploma and diploma cover sent to you in the mail, you must submit a Diploma Release form along with a readable copy of your current government-issued photo ID and required fee. Choose "within the USA" or "outside the USA" release. Duplicate diplomas require a fee and a Duplicate diploma form. Please allow two weeks for processing. Diplomas will not be provided to students with outstanding financial or other obligations to the University, with limited exceptions consistent with state and federal laws. Contact: Wichita State University Office of the Registrar Jardine Hall, Room 117 1845 Fairmount Street Wichita, KS 67260-0058 Phone: (316) 978-3055, Option 2 Fax: (316) 978-3795 Email: diplomas@wichita.edu Visit us: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©