COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Faculty/Staff Directory Use the search field below to search the directory by name, title, department, phone or email. Use the pulldown to customize your search to find faculty and staff profile information, including academic and research interests and more. Add as many terms as you need to narrow your search. OTHER WSU DIRECTORIES Website A-Z Index WSU Department Directory Search Search Select search fields Default All Fields Name Title Department Profile: Overview Profile: Academic Expertise Profile: Research Interests Profile: Teaching Interest Profile: Publications Profile: Working Papers Profile: Professional Experience Profile: Clinical Experience Profile: Awards Profile: Intellectual Property Profile: Grants Profile: Service Profile: Other Interests Profile: Additional Information Instructions How To To search through publicly available information about Wichita State University faculty and staff, enter some text in the "Search" field and hit return. To narrow the scope of your search, select a section of information to search in. Using more words will narrow the results, but it will match on partial words. For example, searching for "Tim Strat" is sufficient to find Timothy Hart in Strategic Communications. Default Search The default search looks through name, title, department, phone and email fields and finds results that have words in those fields. All Fields Like the default search, this looks through multiple fileds to provide results. This casts a wider net, looking through publicly available profile information as well as basic directory information. Individual Fields Other search field selections will narrow the search to just those fields. Updating information If you are a faculty or staff member and see something incorrect in your own listing, you may self-update most information in Banner Self Service on myWSU or on your Profile. If what you need updated is not something that can be reached through one of those two avenues, contact your department's administrative assistant or an EPAF-trained employee. If you are outside the university system and suspect that some information may be incorrect, please fill out a web support form. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©