COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Admissions: Transfer to WSU Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Steps to Enroll Affordability and Price Calculator Dual Advising form Community College Transfer Guides Tuition Discount Programs Continue your educational journey by transferring to Wichita State!Apply Now At Wichita State, transfer students have all the pieces they need to build the futures they want. By transferring to Wichita State, you'll have access to transfer scholarships, a support network to help you succeed in and out of the classroom, Kansas' most diverse college campus, applied learning and flexible class options. Apply Now Visit Campus Steps to Enroll Transfer Gateway We want to give you credit for the work you've done at your previous institution. Our new Transfer Gateway tool will let you estimate how many of those credits will transfer to your desired degree program at Wichita State. Prepare yourself to use Transfer Gateway by having a copy of your unofficial transcripts on hand. You will also have the option to save information you enter by creating an account. See how your credits transfer Welcome to Kansas' #1 Transfer Destination Wichita State has been the number one transfer destination in Kansas for 10 years in a row. Steps to Enroll Price Calculator Dual Advising Transfer Guides Majors & Programs Tuition Discount Programs Visit Campus Ask a Transfer Specialist Wichita State has transfer professionals ready to answer any question you may have. Academic Advising Academic advising is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you reach your educational and career goals. Dual Advising Dual advising allows students planning to transfer to Wichita State to develop a plan of study, avoid taking unnecessary classes and receive up-to-date information about Wichita State. Student Life From 350+ annual on-campus events to hundreds of student clubs and organizations, getting involved at Wichita State is easy and fun. Housing Campus living puts you in the middle of all the action. The Flats offer modern, clean and comfortable living—and quick access to everything campus offers. Applied Learning Gain practical experience, a professional network, college credit and even a paycheck, all while working on your degree. More admissions information Transfer Admission Requirements If you are a transfer student with 24 credit hours or more, you must: Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. If you are a transfer student under age 21, with fewer than 24 credit hours, you must: 1. Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. 2. Meet the freshman requirements. Freshman Requirements If you are a freshman Kansas resident (under 21 years of age) graduating in 2015 or later, you must: 1. Achieve an ACT composite score of 21 or above OR a minimum combined SAT-I score of 1080, OR 2. Rank in the top one-third of your high schools' graduating class, AND 3. Complete the Kansas Qualified Admissions Pre-College Curriculum with at least a 2.00 grade point average (GPA) on a 4.00 scale. Out-of-state residents must earn a 2.50 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale. If you graduated from a non-accredited high school or were homeschooled, you must: Complete coursework equivalent to the Kansas Qualified Admissions Pre-College Curriculum with a 2.00 GPA and by achieving an ACT score of 21 or above or a combined SAT score of at least 1080. If you enroll in college courses while in high school, you must achieve a 2.00 GPA or higher in those courses. If you obtained your GED, you must: For GED tests from 2002-2013: Have a minimum score of 510 on each sub test and an overall score of 2550 to be admitted. For GED tests from 2014 and on: Have a minimum score of 150 on each sub test and an overall score of 680 to be admitted. Admission Requirements Course Transfer There is a growing list of courses approved by the Kansas Board of Regents for guaranteed transfer among all Kansas public postsecondary institutions. From College Algebra and English Composition I & II, to Public Speaking and Art History I & II, a student who completes a course listed as a guaranteed transfer course at any Kansas public community college, technical college, or university can be certain that he or she can transfer that course to any other Kansas public institution in pursuit of a degree or credential. » Visit the Kansas Board of Regents' transfer articulation page for more information Reverse Transfer Students who transfer to a Kansas public university from a Kansas public community college or technical college (or vice versa) are eligible for Reverse Transfer, which allows for the attainment of any associate degree for which one is eligible along the way to additional certificates and degrees. Within a student's first semester, those who transfer coursework from a public university, community college or technical college will be notified if they are eligible to be considered for reverse transfer degree status, and which courses are needed to finish the related degree. Students who then complete the coursework for a given associate degree will be eligible to receive that degree, administered automatically by correspondence between the new institution and the university, community college or technical college the student last attended. » Visit the Kansas Board of Regents' reverse transfer page for more information Articulation Agreements See a listing of articulation agreements Wichita State University has with other colleges. Frequently Asked Questions Don't see what you’re looking for? Browse our list of frequently asked questions for more information on the admissions process, steps for admitted students, counselor and advisor information, Shocker Family programs and more. Frequently Asked Questions Not a transfer student? Select your status below to get admissions information tailored for you. Incoming Freshman Adult Learner International Student Graduate Student Military or Veteran 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©