Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Search Cornell Weill Institute for Cell and Molecular Biology Back to top menu About Us Facilities People Faculty Research Assoc & Visiting Scholars Post Docs Graduate Students Staff Publications Archive Programs Postdoctoral Programs Graduate Student Program Undergraduate Research Program Sabbatical Program News & Events Seminars Keck Biomembrane Retreat Weill Institute Symposium Previous Symposia Faculty Departments Links Postdoc at the bench Thesis Defense Celebration Weill Institute Faculty Graduate student and PI in the lab Weill Hall at Night Back to top Welcome Welcome to the Weill Institute for Cell & Molecular Biology at Cornell University. The Weill Institute opened in June 2008, with a vision to create a vibrant center of scientific excellence in basic biology integrated with existing, outstanding programs in chemistry and chemical biology, microbiology, plant biology, computational biology, genetics, and engineering. We have sought to attract the best faculty, students, and postdocs and to establish an environment that encourages cutting-edge research and the transfer of ideas and technology. News Jan Lammerding Elected to the AIMBE College of Fellows Jeremy Baskin announced as a Young Chemical Biologist Awardee for 2021 Scott Emr wins prestigious Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine Adrienne Roeder wins ASPB Charles Albert Shull Award More news Recent Institute Publications Yu, W., Zhi, L., Woo, C.M., Baskin, J.M. A Chemoproteomics Approach to Profile Phospholipase D-Derived Phosphatidyl Alcohol Interactions. ACS Chem Bio. (December 2021) Suzuki, S.W., Oishi, A., Nikulin, N., Jorgensen, J.R., Baile, M.G., Emr, S.D. A PX-BAR protein Mvp1/SNX8 and a dynamin-like GTPase Vps1 drive endosomal recycling. Elife. (September 2021) Harline, K., Martinez-Gomez, J., Specht, C.Dl, Roeder, A.H.K. A Life Cycle for Modeling Biology at Different Scales. Frontiers in Plant Sci. (September 2021) Sanford, E.J., Smolka, M.B. Fe-NTA Microcolumn Purification of Phosphopeptides from Immunoprecipitation (IP) Eluates for Mass Spectrometry Analysis. Bio-protocol. (August 2021) Tei, R., Morstein, J., Shemet, A., Trauner, D., Baskin, J.M. Optical Control of Phosphatidic Acid Signaling. ACS Cent. Sci. (July 2021) Zaman, R., Lombardo, A., Sauvanet, C., Viswanatha, R., Awad, V., Bonomo, L.E., McDermitt, D., Bretscher, A. Effector-mediated ERM activation locally inhibits RhoA activity to shape the apical cell domain. J Cell Biol. (June 2021) About the Weill Institute The Weill Institute is an interdisciplinary hub of life science research at Cornell. Our faculty perform cutting edge cell biological research, from basic molecular mechanisms to human diseases. We bring together faculty, students, and postdocs from various departments and graduate fields, representing research areas that might not otherwise engage in crosstalk. The Institute is currently broadening and deepening its impact across the campus here in Ithaca and at Weill Cornell Medicine in NYC through increased engagement and leadership in multiple life science initiatives. Core Values World-class research requires a mind open to new ideas and discoveries. The drive to discover and to create lives in each of us. The Weill Institute is committed to a diverse and inclusive community with the highest level of integrity and professional standards. We desire to promote a positive, equitable and creative environment, including freedom from harassment and discrimination. These commitments reflect our institutional values. We work to adhere to them through our policies, employment and management practices. Member Spotlight Fenghua Hu Fenghua Hu is an Associate Professor in the Department of Molecular Biology & Genetics and a member of the Weill Institute for Cell & Molecular Biology. The Hu lab is interested in studying signaling pathways and mechanisms involved in neuro-degeneration, and in dissecting the disease mechanism of Frontal temporal lobe degeneration (FTLD) due to mutations in the progranulin gene. Hu Lab website Learn more about Fenghua Hu © 2022 Cornell University Secondary menu Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Log in