Skip to content Wireless Network Access Office of Information Technology Toggle navigation Home Connecting to eduroam Connecting to ncsu Wi-Fi Etiquette at NC State Guest Access FAQ Home Enroll your device in eduroam Wireless Networks Connecting to eduroam Connecting to ncsu Guest Access FAQ New device? Enroll in eduroam NC State University Faculty, Students and Staff are encouraged to enroll all capable devices to our secured wireless service, eduroam. Enrolling a wireless device in eduroam at NC State allows you to use that device at any of thousands of other educational and research institutions that participate in eduroam worldwide. On campus, you must be connected to the ncsu wireless network to enroll. You can also enroll off-campus by using your existing service provider. Supported devices at NC State What is eduroam? Connect to eduroam Device doesn't work with eduroam? Miscellaneous devices such as gaming consoles, smart TVs and other types of multimedia equipment should use the unsecured and unencrypted wireless network, ncsu. Miscellaneous Device Connectivity Guest at NC State? NC State’s Guest Wireless network, ncsu-guest, is available to visitors, recruiters, alumni, and other guests. Guests already enrolled at another institution or organization can also connect via eduroam. Wireless Access for Guests Help & Support Students Help Desk Visit NC State Help Desk. Call 919.515.HELP (4357) Walk In Center The Walk in Center assists students with computing issues including wireless issues. Faculty & Staff Help Desk Visit NC State Help Desk. Call 919.515.HELP (4357) Local IT Support Please reach out to your designated local IT Support. Office of Information Technology Campus Box 7109 Raleigh, NC 27695-7109 Getting Started Students Faculty & Staff Campus IT Staff Search Search Search Search Browse My IT Campus IT IT Security Help & Support Governance & Strategy About OIT Need Help? NC State Help Desk Email help@ncsu.edu Call 919.515.HELP Visit the Walk-In Center Wireless Network Access Copyright © 2022 · NC State University · Accessibility · Privacy · University Policies · Log in NC State University North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011