Skip to content Skip to breadcrumbs Skip to header menu Skip to action menu Skip to quick search Linked Applications Loading… Spaces Hit enter to search Help Online Help Keyboard Shortcuts Feed Builder What’s new Available Gadgets About Confluence Log in School of Architecture Digital Technologies Wiki Space shortcuts Search Hardware Purchasing Laser Cutter Software Purchasing Resources Software Training and Tutorials Page tree Browse pagesConfigureSpace tools Attachments (0) Page History Page Information Resolved comments View in Hierarchy View Source Export to PDF Export to Word Hide Inline Comments Pages … Search SOA Technology Lab Additional Computing Support Skip to end of banner Jira links Go to start of banner Software Downloads Skip to end of metadata Created by Chelsea Cowley, last modified by Robert F Stepnoski on Aug 30, 2021 Go to start of metadata Autodesk: Students must register at students.autodesk.com to obtain a serial number for product activation. Once registered, locate the Autodesk software you need here: https://www.autodesk.com/education/edu-software Use the Autodesk Download Manager to acquire and install your software. Use the Autodesk Desktop App to keep your software up to date. We provide the following network shares: Arc-GIS-Student: ( \\arch-data.austin.utexas.edu\Arch-GIS-Student ) This read-only share contains a copy of the ArcGIS software, matching the version used in the WMB classrooms, typically available from the ESRI Website. gis-data: ( \\arch-data.austin.utexas.edu\GIS ) This read-only share has a variety of GIS data available to all UTSOA students for use in GIS courses, projects, and analysis. TransCAD-Student: ( \\arch-data.austin.utexas.edu\TransCAD-Student ) This read-only share contains a copy of TransCAD 5.0 in a compressed zip file for download. A USB network license key with serial number is available for signout at the SOA Service Desk in the Technology Lab. How to license your Transcad software using the Transcad licensing dongle: TransCAD Licensing Special Course or Project shares: If you require a place to store and share files for your project or course, please first review the other files-sharing options such as Box. Please note that we are no longer able to provide network storage shares. student support faculty staff guide process Overview Content Tools Confluence Documentation | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility EVALUATION LICENSE Are you enjoying Confluence? Please consider purchasing it today. Powered by Atlassian Confluence 7.4.13 (10.0.27.248: 36037d72) Printed by Atlassian Confluence 7.4.13 Report a bug Atlassian News Atlassian {"serverDuration": 52, "requestCorrelationId": "3030a150abceb5de"}