Skip to content Skip to navigation Looking Forward: Woods Institute is joining Stanford Doerr School of Sustainability Sept. 1 Stanford Wildfire Research Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu Research Focal Areas Funding Opportunities Centers, Programs & Initiatives Publications Environmental Research Review Educating Leaders Education & Leadership Programs Engage Affiliate Learn / Lead Advance Policy Uncommon Dialogues & Workshops Partner Support Subscribe News & Events Events Woods Events News All News News Releases People&Planet newsletter In the Media For Journalists People Faculty and Researchers Postdoctoral Fellows Staff Advisory Council About Overview Annual Reports D.C. Office | Policy & Engagement History Contact Overview Wildfire News Coverage » Stanford Wildfire Experts » Wildfire Solutions Preventing catastrophic wildfire, improving health and safety Factsheet Learn more about wildfire research at Stanford. Read Expert Tip Sheet Stanford experts on wildfire-related issues. View Videos Catch up on briefings and interviews with Stanford experts. Watch Wildfire News and Media Coverage Wildfires in April signal growing costs of climate change April 26, 2022 | Marketplace Michael Wara comments on the issue of understaffing in the fire fighting system and what implications this could have. Air quality report card flunks the West April 21, 2022 | High Country News Mary Prunicki explains how the impacts of wildfire smoke are felt far beyond the fire's immediate area. Report claims Northern CA wildfire smoke will reach 'unbearable' levels due to climate change March 31, 2022 | ABC7 Stanford research on wildfire hazard zones throughout the Western US is featured. ‘Rollercoaster Temperatures’ Start Saturday Through The Week March 19, 2022 | CBS Michael Wara comments on the forecast for drought and fire risk in California this year. Can the grid’s wildfire defense stay ahead of extreme weather? February 22, 2022 | E&E News Michael Wara is quoted on the lessons we can learn from past California wildfires to better prepare for future disasters. Wildfire hazards February 16, 2022 | Various News Outlets A new study led by Krishna Rao with contributions from Alexandra Konings, Noah Diffenbaugh and others finds that areas across the Western U.S. are more vulnerable to wildfire than previously thought... More News & Media Coverage Past wildfire Events Mar 09 2022 12:15pm Online Wildland Fire Seminar Series: Stanford Wildfire Management Plan Mar 02 2022 12:15pm Online Wildland Fire Seminar Series: Firewise Communities in California Feb 23 2022 12:15pm Online Wildland Fire Seminar Series: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Interventions in Reducing Exposure to Wildfire Smoke Among Low-Income Hard-To-Reach Populations All Related Events Wildfire Research Projects Fighting Fire with FIRE A practical system focused on fuels, ignitions, relocation, and extensive and intensive health impacts (FIRE) can benefit California and other areas under threat from wildfires around the globe. Prevention Treatment A preventive treatment developed by Stanford researchers led by Eric Appel involving an environmentally safe gel-like retardant provides season-long protection against wildfire ignitions. Zombie Forests California’s zombie forests — forests established under a prior climate regime now out of climate equilibrium — represent a critical, and as yet unaccounted for, high risk factor for catastrophic wildfire. Wildfire Policy Michael Wara, Director of the Climate and Energy Policy Program, and other Stanford researchers are working with state officials and stakeholders to inform wildfire policy and understand the role utilities play in catastrophic wildfires. Estimating Wildfire Risks Marshall Burke, professor of Earth System Science, and colleagues bring together data on the changing risk and societal burden of wildfire in the U.S. and use satellite data and statistical modeling to estimate indirect mortality. Health Impacts of Wildfire Kari Nadeau, Director of Stanford's Sean N. Parker Center for Allergy and Asthma Research, has active research projects in Fresno, California, studying health impacts from wildfire smoke. Wildfire Research and Prevention Experts For assistance in reaching experts, contact Devon Ryan or Chris Black Eric Appel Assistant Professor of Material Science and Engineering Wildfire prevention, new technology to prevent ignitions, human-caused wildfires Marshall Burke Associate Professor of Earth System Science Wildfire smoke and air pollution mortality risk, wildfire costs and economic statistics Noah Diffenbaugh Professor of Earth System Science Climate and wildfire risk, drought and precipitation, extreme events Chris Field Director, Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment Wildfire and climate change, wildfire ecology, forest management Rob Jackson Professor of Earth System Science Wildfires and greenhouse gas emissions, fire and forest ecology Alexandra Konings Assistant Professor of Earth System Science Tree mortality, wildfire prediction, forest ecology, climate risk, remote sensing Rebecca Miller Ph.D. Candidate in Environment and Resources Wildfire management and policy, wildfire prevention, human impacts of wildfires Kari Nadeau Director, Sean N. Parker Center for Allergy and Asthma Research Air quality and public health, wildfire and prescribed burn smoke impacts Michael Wara Director, Climate and Energy Policy Program Wildfire policy and law, electric utilities and wildfire prevention Gabrielle Wong-Parodi Assistant Professor of Earth System Science Psychology and human behavior, human impacts of wildfires Decades of fire suppression, climate change, and the development of homes and businesses next to dense forests and wild areas called the “wildland urban interface” have made California’s forests a matchbox. In recent years, wildfires have killed over 150 people, destroyed over 35,000 homes, and caused more than $125 billion in societal losses. Diverse and disadvantaged populations, including Native Americans and migrant worker communities, are among the most vulnerable to wildfire and smoke exposure, which can have grave public health impacts. Fighting wildfires costs billions, and current practices are allowing the risks to grow. Wildfire Publications Wildfire Experts at Stanford Jun 28, 2021 Climate Change Increases California Wildfire Risk May 3, 2020 Wildfire Research at Stanford Mar 11, 2020 Prescribed Burns for Improved Wildfire Management in California Feb 29, 2020 Preventing Wildfires Before They Start: New Biosafe Gel Retardant Dec 1, 2019 Connect Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Monthly Newsletter People&Planet is the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment’s monthly newsletter, sharing Stanford research, people in the news, programs and events related to the environment. Subscribe Employment Opportunities Woods Institute Opportunities Stanford University Careers Engage Affiliate Learn / Lead Advance Policy Partner Support Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.