Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University WINGS Lab Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Why Study Climate? People Research Projects Selected Publications Gallery WINGS Lab WINGS Lab Home Page Welcome to WINGS - The Winckler Isotope and Noble Gas Lab Active Research Projects Tracing the Northern Hemisphere Westerlies - New paper published in Nature “Poleward and Weakened Westerlies during Pliocene Warmth” published in Nature DYNAPACC - Expedition 383 From May to July 2019, IODP Expedition 383 sailed in the Pacific sector of the Southern Ocean to drill sediment cores along the Chilean Margin and in the Central South Pacific. The main goal of the project is to study how the dynamics of the Southern Ocean and the Antarctic Circumpolar Current affect the global climate system. Gisela sailed as co-chief scientist, and lead together with Frank Lamy, a geologist at the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, the expedition. Full List of Research Projects Recent Publication Poleward and weakened westerlies during Pliocene warmth Jordan T. Abell Gisela Winckler Robert F. Anderson Timothy D. Herbert Full List of Publications Photos Helium is extracted from sediment samples in a high vacuum furnace Wed, 09/15/2021 - 12:00 Our wet lab offers a lovely view of the Lamont campus Wed, 09/15/2021 - 12:00 Sediment samples are processed for chemical measurements Wed, 09/15/2021 - 12:00 A dolphin follows along the R/V Atlantis cruise to the Juan de Fuca Ridge Mon, 03/09/2020 - 12:00 More Photos Statement of Values: The WINGS Lab is committed to upholding a safe and professional environment that is respectful of each of its members. Any difference among people (including, but not limited to, race, sex, gender, physical ability, or social circumstance) is no excuse for prejudice, dissension or hatred. We reject all manifestations of discrimination based on this premise, and we are committed to giving each member of our community equitable opportunities to excel. Workplace misconduct such as harassment, bullying, incivility, hostility, or micro aggressions can have a profound impact on the well-being, productivity, and career expectations of individuals, and will not be tolerated. All members and visitors of the WINGS Lab are expected to uphold these values and abide by the Lamont Code of Conduct. Winckler_Panorama_JR_off_Patagonia View from the RV Joides Resolution towards Patagonia Columbia Affiliations Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth Institute Phone 8453658756 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close