Skip to content Home About Research People News Publications Events Graduate Studies About Research People News Publications Events Graduate Studies Search for: Search Search Close Advancing the Understanding and Innovation of Wireless Technologies Our Research Publications People Research Community Pulse Professor Nossek returns to Notre Dame as part of the Edison Lecture Series On March 24, 2022, Professor Josef A. Nossek of Technical University of Munich, Germany, presented “How to Achieve Energy Efficiency in Multi-Antenna Systems? A Physical Layer Perspective” to faculty, students,… Read More View All Pulse Stories Wireless News From Beirut to South Bend to a World of Opportunity There are few similarities between Beirut, Lebanon, and South Bend, Indiana, but South Bend has become home to Abbas Termos for the past eight years. Termos is graduating with his… Read More Professor Aaron Striegel, Graduate Student by Accident Growing up in a small town in Iowa with a population of 300 with just over ten elementary school kids per class, six streets, and no stoplights, Professor Striegel never… Read More View All News 2022 AWaRE REU Information The Wireless Institute at the University of Notre Dame will conduct a 10-week summer undergraduate research program called Advanced Wireless Research Experiences (AWaRE). AWaRE provides opportunities for undergraduate EE and CSE majors to experience hands-on innovative research alongside faculty and graduate students and staff. Students continuing college enrollment in the Fall of 2022 with interest in wireless networking, robotics, UVA’s and mobile computing are invited to apply. Women and minority students are encouraged to apply. Participants must be U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents. This Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) program is funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). AWaRE REU Information 2022 Projects AWaRE REU Application Our Research Platforms 1-Bit: Ultra Low-Cost, Low-Power Millimeter-Wave Transceiver Coming to a phone near you... RadioHound: Distributed Spectrum Sensing A low-cost, pervasive, persistent spectrum sensor... RadioWare – Courseware and Lab Kit for Interference-Limited Communications and Electronic Defense Our armed forces require a workforce with EW knowledge... SAR – Improved Phone Design Our armed forces require a workforce with EW knowledge... Alumni Spotlight Ding Nie Class of 2016 Wireless Events There's nothing upcoming yet but see our most recent past events: May 27 Wireless Institute Seminar – ProductAE: Towards Training Larger Channel Codes based on Neural Product Codes May 27, 2022 at 11:00 am May 11 Notre Dame Radio Society Meeting May 11, 2022 at 5:30 pm Apr 20 Wireless Institute Seminar Series / RF Interference Analyses – Overview and Future Directions April 20, 2022 at 10:30 am View All Events Become a Partner You’ll be in Good Company The Wireless Institute has fostered a problem-solving approach between researchers across campus, and industry partners around the country collaborating on critical wireless research. We offer our collaborators a strategic partnership based on their interests and outcomes. Collaborate With Us COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Wireless Institute 275 Fitzpatrick Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA wireless@nd.edu Twitter LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn