Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Wright Laboratory Exploring the Invisible Universe Home About Research Facilities Events Media Visit People Opportunities Contact Home > About > Facilities Facilities Facilities for Research, Education and Innovation Wright Laboratory supports research in fundamental physics by providing shared, on-site facilities for instrumentation development, experimental investigations, and training. Wright Lab is an integral part of the core facilities for Instrumentation at Yale. Yale University Core Facilities at Wright Lab Advanced Prototyping Center Yale University core facility Coherent Meta2C laser cutter Flow NanoJet Abrasive water jet cutter Formlabs Form2 SLA and Dremel 3D20 FDM 3D printers See more at the APC website Research Support Shop Yale University core facility For use by students and researchers with professional supervision Hands-on training available Teaching Shop Yale University core facility For use by students and researchers with professional supervision Shop classes available during the semester Professional advice for design and fabrication of projects Includes mills, lathes, welding shop, fume hood J.W. Gibbs Professional Shop Yale University core facility Staffed by professional machinists Precision machining CNC capability Work with plastics and exotic metals Physics Research Facilities at Wright Lab CAD and Remote Operations Room High performance CAD computers with SolidWorks and AutoCAD Remote operations system Videoconferencing capability Clean Rooms Permanent class 1,000 clean rooms Customizable soft wall clean rooms for high bay Fume hoods and liquid handling Cryogenic Laboratory With mezzanine for large refrigeration equipment Dilution refrigerator Laser room Detector Development Laboratory Low Background Facility Configurable high bay space with cranes and utility support High-bay Area “The Vault” for large-scale instrument assembly and testing Laser Rooms Several laser rooms and optical laboratories RF Shielded Room Wood and Plastic Shop Investigator Laboratories Server Rooms for Physics and Astronomy The Wright Lab community also has access to high performance computing at Yale’s Center for Research Computing. For more information, please contact Alexander Behzad and Tom Langford, who have joint affiliations with YCRC and support research computing at Wright Lab. Please see the gallery for some additional images of the facilities. Access to Machine Shops and APC Access to the teaching shop and the research support shop for members of the Yale community across Science Hill and beyond requires a Yale Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) orientation, offered at the beginning of each semester at Wright Lab, for both the users and their supervisors or faculty sponsors. Additionally, users must demonstrate sufficient experience in the relevant facility to its supervisors. For more information, please see the document How to Access and Use the Wright Lab Research Support Shop: Procedures and Rules. For introductory shop training, Yale offers the course PHYS 762: Laboratory in Instrument Design and the Mechanical Arts. The Advanced Prototyping Center is available for use by appointment. Please see the APC website or contact advancedprototyping@elilists.yale.edu for more information. For more information on access and training requirements, please contact Jeff Ashenfelter. Access to Wright Lab Facilities For use of other Wright Lab facilities, please contact Jeff Ashenfelter and/or director Karsten Heeger. Research Worldwide Wright Lab develops experimental instrumentation and facilitates research collaborations at world-class research facilities, including: Brookhaven National Laboratory, United States CERN, Switzerland Daya Bay, China Fermilab, United States Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Italy Oak Ridge National Laboratory, United States Yangyang Laboratory, South Korea For more information, please see the Research pages. Facilities Contacts Advanced Prototyping Center APC website Email advancedprototyping@elilists.yale.edu for an appointment. Research Support Shop Craig Miller Hours: M-F 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Teaching Shop Dave Johnson Hours: M-F 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. J.W. Gibbs Professional Shop Vincent Bernardo Hours: M-F 7:30 a.m.-12:00 noon; 1:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. Wright Lab Facilities Jeff Ashenfelter Wright Lab Photos Wright Lab Flickr Page Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Wright Lab Internal Pages | Suggestion Form Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr