Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Wright Laboratory Exploring the Invisible Universe Home About Research Facilities Events Media Visit People Opportunities Contact Home > About About Wright Lab is advancing the frontiers of fundamental physics through a broad research program in nuclear, particle, and astrophysics that includes precision studies of neutrinos; searches for dark matter; investigations of the building blocks and interactions of matter; exploration of quantum science and its applications for fundamental physics experiments; and observations of the early Universe. The laboratory’s unique combination of on-site state-of-the-art research facilities, technical infrastructure, and interaction spaces supports innovative instrumentation development, hands-on research, and training the next generation of scientists. Wright Lab is a part of the Yale Department of Physics and houses several Yale University core facilities that serve researchers across Yale’s Science Hill and beyond. Mission The mission of Yale Wright Laboratory is to advance understanding of the physical world, from the smallest particles to the evolution of the Universe, by engaging in fundamental research, developing novel applications, training future leaders in research and development, educating scholars, and enabling discovery. Wright Lab supports a diverse community of scientists, staff, and students who advance our mission and fosters cross-disciplinary collaborations across Yale University and worldwide. Climate Statement The Yale Wright Laboratory is committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion among all students, staff, and faculty. The goal of our lab community is to provide a safe and supportive environment for research, teaching, and mentoring. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core principles of our work place and part of the excellence we aim for. Resources Wright Lab, the Yale Department of Physics, and Yale University offer a number of resources on topics of climate, diversity, equity, and inclusion. In addition, the Committee on Climate and Diversity in the Physics Department is a point of contact for all questions and concerns. Please visit the following links for more information and a list of resources. Wright Lab Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion webpage Yale Physics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion webpage Collaboration With its on-site core facilities and research program, Wright Lab fosters cross-disciplinary research collaborations across Yale University and worldwide. Wright Lab works with the Yale Center for Research Computing (YCRC) on novel solutions to the research computing challenges in nuclear, particle and astrophysics, and collaborates with the Yale Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics (YCAA) on understanding dark matter in the Universe. Quantum sensors and techniques jointly developed with the Yale Quantum Institute (YQI) are used for axion searches at Wright Lab. Wright Lab also has strong, interdisciplinary partnerships with the Yale Center for Collaborative Arts and Media, the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History, and Yale Pathways to Science. Funding Wright Laboratory gratefully acknowledges support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation; the Department of Energy, Office of Science, High Energy Physics and Nuclear Physics; the Heising-Simons Foundation; the Krell Institute; the National Science Foundation; and Yale University. Additional NavigationClose Contact Diversity Facilities Media Organization Visit Wright Lab by the Numbers Annual Reports History Alumni Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Wright Lab Internal Pages | Suggestion Form Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr