Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Wright Laboratory Exploring the Invisible Universe Home About Research Facilities Events Media Visit People Opportunities Contact Home > About > Visit Visit Resources Yale College Travel Arrangements Getting to and around Yale and New Haven (OISS) Interactive Campus Map Visiting Yale website Google Map and Directions to Wright Lab Printable Campus Map Click above image for PDF. Parking Lot 22 is free and open to the public from 5pm - 7am. Most University lots are free and available to the public on University holidays. For all other times, there are a few visitor lots nearby with hourly or daily parking fees. The closest is Lot 16V. See Yale Parking Maps for more information. Air Travel Most used: John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK): Jamaica, NY (80 miles) International travel LaGuardia Airport (LGA): Flushing, NY (73 Miles) Flights to cities across US, Canada, the Caribbean Quieter, smaller, easier to pass through compared to JFK and EWR Other options: Tweed-New Haven Regional Airport (HVN): New Haven, CT (5 Miles) Car rentals and taxi service are available for hire Flights to/from PIA, which connects internationally Bradley International Airport (BDL): Windsor Locks (Hartford), CT (52 Miles) “No hassle” alternative to New York City airports Newark Airport (EWR): Newark, NJ (93 Miles) International travel Amtrak provides rail service to/from EWR- New Haven Westchester County Airport (HPN): Harrison, NY (50 miles) Car rentals, taxis, and limos serve HPN Connections at major hubs allow access from international destinations Train New Haven is served by two train stations: Union Station State Street Station Looking for service to/from… The Connecticut Shoreline? Shoreline East New York City? Metro North Hartford? The Hartford Line Northeast Corridor and beyond? Amtrak Transportation between New Haven Train Stations and Campus Union Station Shuttle: The Union Station shuttle connects the New Haven Green, various downtown locations, parking, and Union Station every 20 minutes. Map and schedule. Map and schedule Yale Shuttle: The Yale Shuttle provides service between Union Station and and campus destinations. Please note that there are now TWO shuttle stop locations in front of Union Station; please look for Shuttles in both locations. If the stop directly in front of the station is congested, shuttle drivers pick up in front of the parking garage. (See more details in “Shuttle” section, below.) Bus CTtransit provides local and express bus services in the greater New Haven metro area. Walking: Stay safe with Yale Security’s Walking Escorts (24 hour) Biking: Biking at Yale resources New Haven Bike Routes Map Shuttle: The Yale University Shuttle provides transportation between the University campus destinations, the East Rock neighborhood, and the New Haven train stations. Track your ride in real-time on DoubleMap or view the DoubleMap text version. How to get to Wright Lab, Whitney/Humphrey stop: Blue Line Orange Line (Whitney / Edwards stop; walk a block to Humphrey St.) *This free service runs year-round with the exception of the University Holidays. Additional NavigationClose Contact Diversity Facilities Media Organization Visit Wright Lab by the Numbers Annual Reports History Alumni Lodging and Restaurants Bed and Breakfast Walking distance to lab in residential area. Piazza Santo Ronan Amadeus Guest House Hotels in Downtown New Haven Approximately 1 mile from lab; accessible by long walk or free Yale shuttle The Study at Yale ($$$) The Omni ($$$) Courtyard New Haven at Yale ($$) New Haven Hotel ($$) The Blake Hotel (for extended stays) Other Hotels LaQuinta Inns & Suites ($$) Free shuttle to all Yale Departments, free parking. 2.2 miles from Lab New Haven Village Suites ($$) Free area shuttle. 2.8 miles from Lab Clarion Hotel and Suites Hamden-New Haven ($$) Need car to access. 4.5 miles from Lab Courtyard New Haven Orange/Milford ($$) Need car to access. 6.7 miles from Lab Restaurants There are many restaurants within walking distance to the lab, or a short shuttle or car ride away. Yelp listing of restaurants near Wright Lab Google map of restaurants near Wright Lab Visitor Information Map Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Wright Lab Internal Pages | Suggestion Form Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr