Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Wright Laboratory Exploring the Invisible Universe Home About Research Facilities Events Media Visit People Opportunities Contact Welcome Wright Lab: Exploring the Invisible Universe What does the invisible universe consist of? What is dark matter? What are the properties of neutrinos? What are the states of matter in the early universe? What is the structure of matter? Wright Lab is advancing the frontiers of fundamental physics through a broad research program in nuclear, particle, and astrophysics that includes precision studies of neutrinos; searches for dark matter; investigations of the building blocks and interactions of matter; exploration of quantum science and its applications for fundamental physics experiments; and observations of the early Universe. The laboratory’s unique combination of on-site state-of-the-art research facilities, technical infrastructure, and interaction spaces supports innovative instrumentation development, hands-on research, and training the next generation of scientists. Wright Lab is a part of the Yale Department of Physics and houses several Yale University core facilities that serve researchers across Yale’s Science Hill and beyond. Explore Wright Lab News Maruyama recognized for mentorship at the 2022 Equity in the Job Search Symposium May 25, 2022 The sixth annual Equity in the Job Search Symposium was held partially online and in person on May 13, 2022. This year’s theme was “Mastering Inclusive Mentoring to Catapult... Congratulations to 2022 Yale Physics Undergraduate Prize Winners May 23, 2022 Congratulations to seven of our Wright Lab graduating seniors, who have been awarded prizes from the Yale Physics department. The Howard L. Schultz Prize for being an... Bhimani awarded 2022 Yale Physics Graduate Diversity Fellowship May 23, 2022 Sanah Bhimani, Yale Physics graduate student and a member of Yale’s Wright Lab, has been awarded the Yale Physics Graduate Diversity Fellowship for 2022 to work with... More news... Collaboration With its on-site core facilities and research program, Wright Lab fosters cross-disciplinary research collaborations across Yale University and worldwide. Wright Lab works with the Yale Center for Research Computing (YCRC) on novel solutions to the research computing challenges in nuclear, particle and astrophysics, and collaborates with the Yale Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics (YCAA) on understanding dark matter in the Universe. Quantum sensors and techniques jointly developed with the Yale Quantum Institute (YQI) are used for axion searches at Wright Lab. Wright Lab also has strong, interdisciplinary partnerships with the Yale Center for Collaborative Arts and Media, the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History, and Yale Pathways to Science. Funding Wright Laboratory gratefully acknowledges support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation; the Department of Energy, Office of Science, High Energy Physics and Nuclear Physics; the Heising-Simons Foundation; the Krell Institute; the National Science Foundation; and Yale University. Statement on Ukraine The Yale Physics Department stands in solidarity with our colleagues and collaborators in the Ukraine and everyone affected by this tragic war. We express and offer our support to colleagues and their friends and families. Please see also the following statments from the APS and Yale University. Wright Lab Videos More Videos Upcoming Events June 1, 2022 - 1:00pm NPA Seminar, Leticia Cunqueiro Mendez, Sapienza University, “Jet substructure: the Lund plane, the dead cone and other effects in QCD” June 8, 2022 - 1:00pm EHS Orientation for Wright Lab Shop Users - Summer 2022 June 24, 2022 - 10:00am EHS Orientation for Wright Lab Shop Users - Summer 2022 July 8, 2022 - 10:00am EHS Orientation for Wright Lab Shop Users - Summer 2022 Wright Lab Photos Wright Lab Flickr Page Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Wright Lab Internal Pages | Suggestion Form Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr