Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search VPUL Home Student Involvement Fraternity and Sorority Life Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House Event Registration Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBT Center Makuu: The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women's Center Student Supports Career Services Naval ROTC Penn Violence Prevention Student Intervention Services Weingarten Center About Leadership Team Emergency and Opportunity Funding Give to University Life Strategic Priorities University Life Facilities at Perelman Quadrangle University Life Technology Services MyWeingartenCenter Academic Support Learning Consultations Tutoring Workshops and Programs Study Tools and Strategies Become a Peer Educator Disability Services Getting Started Academic Accommodations Campus Accessibility Assistive Technology and Alternate Format Materials Scholarships Reconsideration Process For Faculty and Staff Standards for Accommodating Exams Provost Memorandum Weingarten Center Canvas Pages Syllabus Statement Refer a Student Request a Workshop Exam Analysis About Contact Us Our Team Weingarten Ambassadors Advisory Board Disability Symposium MyWeingartenCenter Home Academic Accommodations Academic Accommodations Academic accommodations are determined on an individualized basis through an interactive process that involves student self-disclosure, documentation of disability, and an initial meeting with a Disability Specialist. Renew Accommodations Add an Accommodation Testing Accommodations Note Taking Accommodations Interpreting and Cart Services Renew Accommodations for the Current Semester Students who are already approved for academic accommodations must renew them at the start of every new semester. This process gives students the chance to review their accommodations and decide which accommodations to activate for each of their current classes. Completing the Semester Request also sends a notification to their course instructors and allows them to review and sign the students’ accommodation letters. Complete your Semester Request through the MyWeingartenCenter student portal. How to Submit a Semester Request Request an Additional Accommodation Students who are already approved for accommodations can request additional accommodations at any time during their Penn career by completing a Supplemental Accommodation Request. An additional accommodation may be needed when a student’s disability or medical condition changes over time, or when a new course presents unique accessibility barriers or challenges. Complete a Supplemental Accommodation Request through the MyWeingartenCenter student portal. Testing Accommodations Students who are approved for test-taking accommodations should speak with their course instructor early in the semester about how to handle these accommodations. Some course instructors prefer to arrange a place and time to give their exams with accommodations themselves. In many cases, it is preferable for the student to test through Disability Services. Students who wish to take their accommodated tests through Disability Services must schedule each quiz, test, or exam at least eight days in advance through the MyWeingartenCenter student portal. All tests proctored through Disability Services for the Spring 2022 semester will take place in the BioTech Commons (3610 Hamilton Walk). The Weingarten Center testing room is located one floor down from the main entrance on the blue level. Disability Services continues to offer drop-in hours for test-scheduling assistance and questions every Tuesday and Wednesday from 12pm-2pm in the Weingarten Center (220 South 40th St., Suite 260). Contact Testing Services with additional questions. Note: Students in Penn Law, Penn Dental, Penn Vet, Perelman School of Medicine, MCIT Online, or Wharton MBA programs should make all arrangements for test accommodations with their School’s Disability Services liaison. Note Taking Accommodations Students who are approved for note taking accommodations will receive a copy of a classmate’s notes through the MyWeingartenCenter student portal. Disability Services will recruit and hire a note taker, beginning after the student completes their Semester Request. The process can take several weeks to complete. Students may also wish to ask their course instructor if they can make instructional materials available through Canvas. Students seeking note taking support can also consult with the Associate Director for Assistive Technology by scheduling an appointment through the MyWeingartenCenter student portal. Sign Language Interpreting and Real-Time Transcription Students who are approved for sign language interpreting or real-time transcription for communication access will receive these services through Disability Services. Disability Services staff will request the student’s class schedule at least one month in advance of the start of each semester and find coverage for each class meeting through one of the university-approved agencies. Requests for one-time events that require sign language interpreting or real-time transcription for a student can be directed to the Disability Services email account. More information about the university’s guidelines for communication access can be found on the Web Accessibility website. Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset