About People Topics Accessibility Calendar Events Mellon Research Seminar Undergraduate Research Seminar Event Registration Archive Annual Topic Events Archive Speakers S.T. Lee Lectures Humanities at Large Digital Humanities Forum Conferences/Symposia Exhibitions Performances Film Series Video Archive Audio Archive Fellowships Overview Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Penn Faculty Regional Faculty Penn Undergraduate Penn Graduate Graduate Research Assistantship Alumni Society Full Listing Administrative Staff Directors Annual Topic Directors Graduate Research Assistants Faculty Directors, Undergraduate Forum Faculty Directors, Graduate Forum Postdoctoral Fellows Penn Faculty Fellows Regional Fellows Associate Scholars Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Annual Topics Workshops Manuscript Development Project Development, Associate Professors Humanities Resources Humanities Departments Working Groups and Seminars Apply for Funding Humanities Event Funding Humanities Against Racism Fund Project Development, Associate Professors Media Media Overview Event Video Event Audio Event Video with ASL Interpretation Calendar Events Mellon Research Seminar Undergraduate Research Seminar Event Registration Archive Annual Topic Events Archive Speakers S.T. Lee Lectures Humanities at Large Digital Humanities Forum Conferences/Symposia Exhibitions Performances Film Series Video Archive Audio Archive Fellowships Overview Andrew W. Mellon Postdoctoral Penn Faculty Regional Faculty Penn Undergraduate Penn Graduate Graduate Research Assistantship Alumni Society Full Listing Administrative Staff Directors Annual Topic Directors Graduate Research Assistants Faculty Directors, Undergraduate Forum Faculty Directors, Graduate Forum Postdoctoral Fellows Penn Faculty Fellows Regional Fellows Associate Scholars Graduate Fellows Undergraduate Fellows Annual Topics Workshops Manuscript Development Project Development, Associate Professors Humanities Resources Humanities Departments Working Groups and Seminars Apply for Funding Humanities Event Funding Humanities Against Racism Fund Project Development, Associate Professors Media Media Overview Event Video Event Audio Event Video with ASL Interpretation About People Topics Accessibility Subscribe SearchSearch Faculty Advisory Board Alumni Society People Forum on Migration Undergraduate Fellows Katherine Busch Moral and Political Philosophy CAS, 2023 Project: An Exploration of the Ethical Foundations of Citizenship Katie Busch is a junior in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. She majors in political and moral philosophy and has interests in English and cognitive science. Katie is interested in... (more) Nicolas Fonseca Comparative Literature; Latin American Studies CAS, 2022 Project: Tercer Cine, Otra Vez: Subversive Pedagogy and Nomadism in Latin American Film Nico Fonseca is a senior from Ft. Lauderdale, FL studying Comparative Literature and Latin American/Latinx Studies. He is interested in the revolutionary possibilities of film and filmmaking, particularly materialist... (more) Brendan Lui Political Science CAS, 2022 Project: Called In, Kept Out: Explaining variation in construction trade union behavior towards migrant workers in the advanced industrial democracies Brendan Lui is a senior in the College majoring in Political Science. He is a Wolf Humanities Undergraduate Fellow and an undergraduate grant recipient with the Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy. His... (more) Caitlyn Marentette Chair, Wolf Undergraduate Humanities Forum South Asia Studies CAS, 2022 Project: How Masses Mobilize: The Bangla/Urdu Divide in Pakistan, 1947–1971 Caitlyn is an undergraduate senior from Tennessee majoring in South Asia Studies at the College of Arts and Sciences. Her research interests broadly center on modern South Asian history, with topical interests in... (more) Claire Nguyễn History; Minors in Asian American Studies and English CAS, 2022 Project: (Dis)placed: A Story of the War on Southeast Asian Refugee Youth in Philadelphia from 1975-2000 A senior studying History with minors in Asian American Studies and English, Claire Nguyễn is a Wolf Humanities Fellow and an Andrea Mitchell Center Fellow for the 2021-2022 school year. She immerses herself in... (more) Chinaza Ruth Okonkwo Philosophy; History CAS, 2022 Project: The Great Migration: Igbo Movement, Indigeneity, and Identity Chinaza Ruth Okonkwo is majoring in philosophy and history with concentrations in moral and political philosophy and world history and minors in Africana Studies, Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies, and... (more) Dana Raphael French & Francophone Studies; Neuroscience; Minor in Chemistry CAS, 2022 Project: At the Crossroads of Life and Death: The Migration of Memories in Holocaust-era France from the Past to the Present (Research Fellowship, Fall 2021 only) Dana Raphael is a senior double-majoring in French and Francophone Studies and Neuroscience, with a minor in Chemistry. Her research as part of the Wolf Humanities... (more) Christopher Schiller Comparative Literature; Philosophy, Politics, and Economics; Minor in French and Francophone Studies CAS, 2022 Project: The Vagabond Novelist: Roberto Bolaño's Migrant-Artists and the Global Novel Chris Schiller is a senior from New York City studying Comparative Literature and Philosophy, Politics, and Economics, and minoring in French and Francophone Studies. His research focuses on narratives of migration,... (more) Samuel Strickberger History; Minors in Survey Research and Data Analytics CAS, 2022 Project: The Jewish Orthodox Race-Based Slavery Debates, 1848–1861 Sam Strickberger, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences, majors in intellectual history and minors in survey research and data analytics. His history honors thesis, “Covenent in Crisis: The Jewish Orthodox... (more) Wolf Humanities Center · School of Arts & Sciences · University of Pennsylvania 619 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street · Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 · 215.573.8280 Contact / Subscribe / Event Archives / Alumni Society / Make a Gift Search form SearchSearch © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn WebLogin