myOKSTATEDirectoryCalendarQuicklinks Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies Search ... Home GWST Minor Requirements Graduate Courses News Links People Faculty Interdisciplinary Programs GWST Courses Give University Links myOKSTATE Directory Calendar Quicklinks Search ... Gender, Women's, and Sexuality Studies at Oklahoma State University We are a vibrant academic program offering a minor for undergraduates, support for curricular development and research by faculty, and opportunities to collaborate with community and campus partners who are intrigued by how gender shapes the world. Faculty and courses from twelve departments across the university contribute to this interdisciplinary program. Students and faculty in Gender, Women’s, and Sexuality Studies pursue research in the history of women, in theories of gender, in feminism, in the cultural construction of masculinity, and in the cross-cultural intersections of race, class, nationality, and sexuality. Gender, Women’s, and Sexuality Studies grew out of a desire to make curricula relevant to real-world, lived experience. We strive to make our teaching, research, and outreach activities integrated, so that students, faculty, staff, and community members engaged in Gender, Women’s, and Sexuality Studies have a sense of how our intellectual work derives from and extends into everyday lives, especially those of women. See our full course catolog list here. Upcoming Courses Fall 2022 GWST courses GWST News GWST News Art Exhibit by Micah Damon 01 Apr 2022 Micah Damon, a GWST minor at OSU, recently curated an independent exhibition at the OSU Museum of... Dr. Jennifer Borland and The Conversation 31 Mar 2022 Our GWST Faculty, Dr. Jennifer Borland, published "A 700 Year Old Book Reveals the Bizarre Wellness Hacks of Medieval Culture: From cupping to Leeches, the Middle Ages were a fun time" on The... Ragan Chastain Body Positivity Events 31 Mar 2022 Please join GWST for conversations with RAGEN CHASTAIN on the topic of WEIGHT STIGMA, HEALTH, SIZE ACCEPTANCE, AND SOCIAL JUSTICE! Ragen Chastain is a speaker, writer and thought leader in the... See More News GENDER, WOMEN'S & SEXUALITY STUDIES 215 Willard | Stillwater, OK 74078 | 405-744-0000