Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Our Work Interdisciplinary Research Evaluation Training and Advocacy Our Team News Resources Students Contact Tulane University MatCH Program Our Work Interdisciplinary Research NOLA Gem Study Evaluation Training and Advocacy Our Team News Resources Students Contact Tulane University MatCH Program Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... MARY AMELIA CENTER FOR WOMEN’S HEALTH EQUITY RESEARCH Mary Amelia Center for Women’s Health Equity Research (MAC) Interdisciplinary Research Quick ViewLearn More Evaluation Quick ViewLearn More Training and Advocacy Quick ViewLearn More Resources Quick ViewLearn More Interdisciplinary Research Learn More Evaluation Learn More Training and Advocacy Learn More Resources Learn More Our Mission Equity At the Mary Amelia Center for Women's Health Equity Research (MAC), we believe that opportunities for health begin where people are born, grow, learn, work, and play and are shaped by the policies and systems that form the foundation of our society. We envision a world where all people are afforded equal opportunity to achieve their full potential for a happy and healthy life. We take an innovative, multi-level approach to our mission of conducting interdisciplinary research that identifies and disrupts barriers to knowledge, opportunity, and health for women and their communities while addressing inequities in health across the lifespan. As a center that values being responsive to the community, we recognize the importance of translating our research into action through training and advocacy. We strive to promote our vision of equitable health and well-being for women and their communities. Through broad dissemination of our findings, we hope to initiate, facilitate, and advance progress on efforts to improve population health for women, as individuals with reproductive rights, parents with children and families, and community members. We are enthusiastic about the continuing and planned activities and growth, and are indebted to The Frost Foundation, Ltd., W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and our federal sponsors for their support and guidance. 15+ years of community health The Mary Amelia Center for Women's Health Equity Research was established in 2003 as part of the Tulane-Xavier Center of Excellence in Women's Health in downtown New Orleans, Louisiana. Our Team The team at MAC shares a vision to drive the field in women's health knowledge and practice. We value community participation, purposeful leadership, cultural sensitivity, service, sustainability, equity, and justice. Meet our team Partner With Us Community Organizations and Businesses MAC partners with a variety of community-based organizations that work with women and children to provide technical assistance and capacity building through training, grant writing, research, and project collaboration. Please contact us for information on specific projects or to discuss the ways we may be able to partner with your organization. Faculty MAC collaborates with faculty within the School of Public Health, schools and departments across Tulane University, and with additional institutions in New Orleans and beyond. Collaborations span across biological, behavioral, and social research topics. For more information about potential faculty collaborations, contact us for a list of affiliate faculty or to find out more about their work. Students MAC has student positions for research and administrative assistants as well as practicum and internship opportunities. To see a list of current openings or to apply for a position visit our student page. Connect with MAC Subscribe to Newsletter Tulane News 2021 Health of Women and Girls in Louisiana: Sexual Health Saturday, March 12th: Lend a Helping Hand in Central City Brennetta Holmes Promoted to Director of Research Operations Loretta J. Ross Lecture - "Reproductive Justice: Human Rights for the 21st Century" View Mary Amelia Center for Women’s Health Equity Research News Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions 143 S. Liberty St. New Orleans, LA 70112 504-988-6269 mac@tulane.edu News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University