Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Housing & Relocation Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affinity Mortgage Lending Program There are currently two lenders in the program: RoundPoint Mortgage (a Freedom Mortgage subsidiary) and TD Bank. While Columbia does not specifically endorse these lenders, they are familiar with the programs and benefits available to faculty and staff, as well as the complexities of academic incomes. The program was instituted in 2006, and participating lenders are selected periodically through an extensive vetting process conducted by a committee that consists of senior administrators in Arts & Sciences, Business School, Law School, Finance, General Counsel, Human Resources, and the Office of the Provost. Always have a fully-vetted (all documents reviewed by a lender) pre-approval, and all personal financing in place, as soon in advance as possible before making any purchasing decisions. We recommend that you thoroughly research all of your options prior to making a decision. To ensure that you reach the individuals within the participating financial institutions who are most familiar with the specifics of mortgages for higher education professionals, please be sure to contact the loan officers listed below. Expand all Collapse all Mortgage Lenders RoundPoint Contact: Chirag Mody NMLS #: 1070822 1250 Broadway #3621 New York, NY 10001 Phone: 718-210-1167 Email: [email protected] Contact: Mark Maimon NMLS #: 3550 1250 Broadway #3621 New York, NY 10001 Phone: 646-330-4735 Email: [email protected] Participants of the Columbia University Affinity Lending Program will be eligible to have their application, commitment, processing, underwriting and document preparation fees waived on all loans funded by RoundPoint Mortgage. Applicants must apply through Chirag Mody and the Mark Maimon Team at RoundPoint to be eligible for this benefit. TD Bank Contact: Morris Cohen NMLS #419553 Loan Officer [email protected] (917) 626-2341 Expand all Collapse all Mortgage Information Credit Score Your credit history will be checked by lenders when you are pre-approved for a mortgage, when you apply for a mortgage, and right before closing. You can check your credit every year on www.myfico.com or www.annualcreditreport.com. Both pull credit from all three agencies – Trans Union, Equifax and Experian. Credit Unions Consider joining a credit union to become eligible to apply for a home mortgage. With an IDCNY membership, there are several credit unions that offer membership as a benefit. Government Programs Following are some city, state and federal organizations that offer home buying programs and services, including programs for first-time home buyers. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau HomeFirst Down Payment Assistance HUD, Good Neighbor Program HUD, Types of loans (FHA-low down payment; senior citizens; renovation and energy efficiency loan (203K) Fannie Mae Freddie Mac NYC Department of Housing Preservation & Development (HPD) New York State Mortgage Assistance Program State of NY Mortgage Agency (SONYMA) U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD) Veteran’s Administration (VA) Other Lenders Citibank offers a competitive mortgage for first-time homebuyers through the Home Run Program. Online Mortgage Calculators Zillow offers three types of calculators – a mortgage calculator, a refinance calculator and an affordability calculator. On Malvern National Bank’s website, there are several types of mortgage calculators available -- a bi-weekly calculator, adjustable rate mortgage calculator, mortgage loan calculator, mortgage comparison: 15 years vs. 30 years, mortgage qualifier, and a refinance breakeven. Bank Rate offers 71 types of mortgage calculators -- from fixed rate through remodeling calculators. Properties in Foreclosure There are several websites which list foreclosed properties and properties being offered at auction. https://www.auction.com/ https://www.homepath.com/ http://mandtreo.com/ http://nyforeclosures.com/ http://nysauctions.com/ http://www.propertyshark.com/mason/ http://www.realtytrac.com/ https://reo.wellsfargo.com/ Types of Loans Adjustable Rate (ARMS) Conventional Loans FHA Loans (3.5% Down) Fixed Rate Loans Jumbo Loans Renovation Loans Disclaimer This content is provided for informational purposes only. Listing of the websites above does not constitute a recommendation of these websites nor is the accuracy of the information listed in these websites verified by the Office of Work/Life. Columbia University does not assume any responsibility in connection with any of these websites, and recommends that any information listed therein be independently verified. Questions or Comments? Your feedback is important to us. If you have utilized the services offered through the Affinity Mortgage Lending Program, please fill out a brief survey. If you have any questions, please ask Alice Lesman at [email protected]. Quick Links Housing Information and Referral Service Program Flyer Columbia University Faculty Housing Policy Columbia Residential Moving Guide Rental Guide Visitor Housing Related Links Columbia Preferred Moving and Storage Vendors Parking - Morningside & Manhattanville Parking - CUIMC RE-NYC Newsletter Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close