Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Breastfeeding Breastfeeding Support Program Breastfeeding Support Program Recognizing the benefits of breastfeeding and in compliance with the law, Columbia University offers an array of resources to help support parents and is committed to ensuring that the needs of lactating women are met. The Breastfeeding Support Program is available for mothers at Columbia returning to work, school, or visiting the campus who wish to express milk. This program is essential to assisting faculty, staff, and students achieve their academic and career goals while meeting their children’s needs. Expand all Collapse all Program Elements Breastfeeding Support Program includes Private Lactation Rooms throughout Columbia's campuses equipped with Medela Symphony Hospital-Grade Pumps Educational materials and breastfeeding-related workshops on campus Information on lactation consultants and support groups. Expand all Collapse all Policies Columbia University Policy Columbia University is committed to supporting the health and well-being of new parents and their babies. In recognition of the needs of nursing parents, Columbia has an institutional policy for expressing breastmilk during the work day. The policy stipulates that employees be given adequate time and space to express breastmilk throughout the workday. Please visit the Administrative Policy Library for details. Policy FAQs Federal and State Laws The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that mothers breastfeed exclusively for their baby’s first six months of life and continue breastfeeding through their baby’s first year of life. AAP reports numerous health benefits of breastfeeding for both the baby and the mother. An employee's right to express milk at work is protected by New York State Labor Law § 206-C (established in May 2008), which requires employers to allow working women to use unpaid break time or paid meal time to nurse their babies or express milk for up to three years after the birth of their child. It also requires employers to make a reasonable effort to provide a space where an employee can express milk in privacy and prohibits employers from discriminating against an employee who exercises this right. New York City Local Laws 185 and 186 (both passed in 2018) require that employers provide employees with lactation accommodations, including a lactation room where employees can pump/express breast milk, and reasonable time to pump/express breast milk. Employers are also required to have a written lactation policy that meets certain requirements under the law. The Breastfeeding Bill of Rights is available for print in several languages through the New York State Department of Health website. As part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (PPACA), Congress amended the Fair Labor Standards Act to provide breaks for nursing mothers, although New York State already had the related labor law in place. The Affordable Care Act also requires health insurance to provide coverage for breast pumps. Contact your insurance provider or reach out to the Columbia Benefits Service Center for additional information on what is covered. Health and Safety Columbia University is committed to establishing and maintaining a healthful and safe work environment for our faculty, staff and students. While working at Columbia you may have varying health needs. For example, if you are pregnant, trying to get pregnant and/or nursing and are concerned about potential exposure to biological, chemical or radiological agents you should speak with your physician and may also contact the Office of Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). Information For Expectant & New Parents Review these guides to University benefits, programs, and services: For Faculty & Staff For Students Explore Additional Work/Life Programs and Services Back-up Care Early Education and Child Care School and Child Care Search Service Caregiving Resources Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide University Benefits and Policies Human Resources Benefits Parental Leave Policies Flexible Work Arrangements Additional Resources La Leche League of New York New York Lactation Consultant Association Campus Breastfeeding Support Group Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close