Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Adult and Elder Care Adult and Elder Care The information in this section highlights programs and policies available at Columbia that may assist caregivers, as well as links to many local, state, and federal organizations with helpful resources and information. Adult and Elder Care Services Columbia University provides a number of services to support those caring for adults or elders. comments icon Employee Assistance Program The EAP can provide information research, referrals, and short-term counseling to help you with a variety of issues including, adult/elder care management and caregiver stress. users icon Back-Up Care This program is for the care of adults/elders, children, or yourself for those situations when normal care arrangements are interrupted or when short-term care is required but you still need to perform your work responsibilities. Coverage is available 24/7, nationwide and in some international locations. user-plus icon Years Ahead Provides resources for ongoing elder care needs including certified advisors, needs assessment, guidance on specialized facilities for memory/hospice care and independent/assisted-living communities, home health and dependent care, occasional in-home care, and more. check icon Sittercity Use this resource to help you find regular or occasional companion care or care for individuals with special needs. You can post a job listing and review resumes and profiles of potential caregivers. I want to learn about Related Benefits & Policies Senior Citizen Housing Additional Resources Long-Distance Elder Caregiving Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close