Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home A message to the Columbia University Community A message to the Columbia University Community From Amy Rabinowitz, Director, Office of Work/Life CHECK THESE OUT! Caring for the Virtual Workforce Guide Summer Resource Guide NYC Health: Child Care Programs and COVID-19 As we all adjust to new realities in light of COVID, please know that the Office of Work/Life is committed to supporting you in whatever ways possible. We are working to share timely resources such as additional guidance on remote work and information for parents navigating the challenges of working at home while also supporting the at-home educational needs of children. As we all seek new ways to manage our stress in these uncertain times, we invite you to take advantage of online well-being tools, including guided meditations and online yoga videos. We have many virtual classes in our well-being video library. We were able to record our Spring virtual workshops and you will find the recordings in our video library. All of our usual consultation services (child care and schooling, housing, and dual career) remain available by phone, email, or zoom. As much as we would like to, we cannot fully resolve the many challenges everyone is facing in light of these unprecedented circumstances. Nonetheless, as we navigate the uncertainty, please call on us if there are questions or concerns with which we might be able to assist. We will keep these pages updated with new information as we move forward. The School & Child Care Search Service is Here for You For important information about school & child care during COVID please visit our Child Care & Schooling page. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close