Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Child Care & Schooling High School Information High School Information Information on schooling options available for students from grades 9 to 12. Click on the links below to learn more about: Middle & High School Admissions Resources Informational Support During Admissions Public Schools Independent Schools Boarding Schools Faith-Based Schools Charter Schools Homeschool Public Schools New York City is home to the largest public school system in the country. Public schools are tuition-free and are funded at the local, state, and federal levels. Any child who is a NYC resident is entitled to receive a free K-12 education. Only those with NYC residency may apply for or enroll in NYC public schools. If you plan to move to NYC, note that registration cannot take place until residency has been established and NYC public schools will not hold spots. The New York City Department of Education operates public schools in the city with leadership from the Mayor and a schools Chancellor. Expand all Collapse all What to Consider When Looking at Schools Ages/grade-level served. Educational philosophy and curriculum Location School building facilities and resources that support academics and extra-curricular activities Size (individual class size and school as a whole) and teacher-to-student ratio Admissions Process and Timeline Applying to high school involves a yearlong process beginning at the end of Grade 7. Everyone must apply to high school. The Admissions process for public schools is described on the NYC DOE website. Admissions processes and factors in acceptance to schools varies: Screened schools – students with high grades and good attendance records Specialized schools – See below Zoned Schools – students who live in the specific attendance zone Schools by lottery Some schools require auditions/interviews/portfolios Admissions Timeline June–August: attend admissions workshops, prepare for specialized high school exam if applicable, plan fall schedule for fairs, open houses, auditions and school visits. September-October: if applicable register for specialized high school exam or audition for LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, attend open houses, go on school visits, attend citywide high school fair. October-November: attend borough high school fairs, take the specialized high school exam if applicable, continue to attend open houses and school visits. December: submit high school application to your Grade 8 guidance counselor. February–March: learn where you have been admitted, apply in the second round if you were not matched in the first one. Late spring: appeal if you are unsatisfied with your placement. Specific Admissions Process Some schools require an audition in order to apply including: Brooklyn High School of the Arts Celia Cruz Bronx High School of Music Frank Sinatra School of the Arts Gramercy Arts High School LaGuardia High School for Music & Art and Performing Arts Professional Performing Arts School Talent Unlimited High School of the Performing Arts TAPCO: The Theater Arts Production Company School Specialized Schools There are nine specialized high schools; eight use the entrance exam Specialized High School Admissions Test (SHSAT) and one is by audition. The exam is offered in October. Competition for these seats is very high. Brooklyn Latin Brooklyn Tech Bronx Science High School of American Studies at Lehman College High School for Math Science and Engineering at City College LaGuardia High School for Music & Art and Performing Arts (audition only; no SSHAT required) Queens High School of Science at York College Staten Island Technical High School Stuyvesant High School Magnet Schools Some schools are designated as “magnet schools” and receive federal grants to encourage racial integration. The grant money is also used to offer a specialized curriculum which may include courses that strengthen students’ academic skills along with vocational options. Resources InsideSchools: Independent information about NYC public schools NYC Department of Education Chalkbeat New York: a nonprofit news organization covering education in several U.S. communities, including NYC. School Book: publishes news and data about schools in NYC. Recommended Book: New York City's Best Public High Schools: A Parents' Guide. Clara Hemphill. Independent Schools The term independent school is most frequently used to refer to a private school that is tuition-based and not dependent on government funding. New York City is home to a wide variety of independent school options. Every independent school has its own unique mission and selects students through its own self-defined admissions process. Residential address is not a factor in independent school admissions. Expand all Collapse all What to Consider When Looking at Schools Ages/grade-level served Co-educational or single sex (“all girls” or “all boys”) Cost and availability of financial aid Educational philosophy and curriculum Location School building facilities and resources that support academics and extra-curricular activities Size (individual class size and school as a whole) and teacher-to-student ratio Admissions Process and Timeline Independent schools will communicate their admissions deadlines on their own websites and applicant families are expected to adhere to these deadlines. Start early! You can begin to explore independent school options a year or more prior to the date of planned enrollment. Starting your exploration during the spring or summer before the application year is advisable. Schools hold tours and open houses in the spring and early fall. Expect to set aside time for touring and—for any schools to which you decide to apply—the interview process. Some Resources: NYC Independent Schools - General Admissions Timeline Independent School Notification and Reply Dates Application Requirements Completed application (typically found on each school’s website) Standardized testing (examples include ISEE, SSAT) Teacher recommendations Official school transcript Student visit Many schools also require: Student writing sample Student art work portfolio or audition (if applicable) Parent statement Parent tour/interview Assessment testing by school Always check specific school website for admissions requirements. Affordability/Financial Aid Financial aid is available at most independent schools. Awards are based on the determined need of the family and repayment is not required. Independent Schools make aid available in order to attract socioeconomic diversity in the interest of building a community that includes a wide range of views and life experiences. Families who intend to seek financial aid should note the following To apply, you must request and complete a financial aid application and submit it by the deadline. While aid is available, there is an expectation that families will finance their children's education to the extent that they are able. Because financial aid is limited, it is suggested that families planning to apply for aid should generally apply for admission to 8-10 independent schools. Tuition is the amount of money the school asks families to pay. When comparing schools find out whether there are any additional fees for things such as lunch, books, before or after-school care, trips or activities. Many schools use outside financial aid services such as School and Student Services (SSS), Financial Aid for School Tuition (FAST), or TADS to determine financial aid need. While most schools only offer need-based aid, some schools also offer scholarships based on criteria other than economic circumstances. Additionally, some schools offer sibling discounts. Many schools offer tuition payment plans which allow families to pay tuition in monthly installments. Additional Financial Aid Information National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS): Paying for School NAIS: About Financial Aid Institute for Educational Advancement, Caroline D. Bradley Scholarship Diversity Resources & Opportunities A Better Chance selects academically talented students through a unique assessment model to enter Grades 6 through 11 in independent and public schools. The Oliver Program selects highly motivated Grade 7 students of African American and Latino descent in NYC and offers them the support and guidance they need to gain admission to independent schools. Prep for Prep identifies New York City's promising students of color in Grades 5 and 6 and prepares them for placement in independent schools in the city and boarding schools throughout the Northeast. TEAK Fellowship identifies New York City students from low income families in Grade 7 and above and helps them gain admission to and succeed at the top high schools. Additional Resources Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater New York (ISAAGNY) New York State Association of Independent Schools (NYSAIS) Parents League of New York Connecticut Association of Independent Schools (CAISCT) New Jersey Association of Independent Schools (NJAIS) Boarding Schools Boarding schools are independent schools where students reside at the school during the semester. Much like attending college, most students at boarding school are immersed in the school campus for most of their time there, although students may attend these schools as a day-school as well. Expand all Collapse all Admissions Process Potential boarding school applicants should begin by narrowing their search to a few schools to which they wish to apply. The Association of Boarding Schools (TABS) offers information regarding the many kinds of schools as well as providing a central Admissions Application. Contact individual schools to learn specific application requirements and deadlines. Testing: Schools typically require specific admission tests such as the Secondary School Admission Test (SSAT) or the Independent School Entrance Examination (ISEE) for which a student must be registered. International students may be required to provide scores from tests of English proficiency such as the Test of English as a Foreign Language Junior (TOEFL Junior). Other tests accepted by some schools in their admission process include the PSAT, the SAT I, and the ACT. Always check specific school website for admissions and testing requirements. Affordability/Financial Aid Families should contact the financial aid offices of the specific schools to which they wish to apply to understand the full range of options available at each school. Faith-Based Schools Faith-based schools are private schools maintained and supported by a religious body (e.g., Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, Islamic). These schools are separate from the public school system and religious instruction is included in the curriculum. Expand all Collapse all Admissions The Admissions Process varies from school to school – check websites for specific details on timelines and requirements Residential address is not a factor in faith-based school admissions Testing: Catholic high schools use the Test for Admission into Catholic High Schools (TACHS) Charter Schools Charter schools are free public schools that are independent of the Department of Education and operate under a contract or “charter” of up to five years. Many charter schools have unique educational approaches that might include longer days and/or a longer school year, or thematic programs. Any student eligible for admission to a New York City public school is eligible for admission to a public charter school. Expand all Collapse all Admissions Each charter admits students by lottery in April. Applications are available on the New York City Charter School Center website or at the individual schools (Some schools will accept a common application). Anyone may apply, but preference goes to children living in the school district in which the charter is located. Most charters maintain a waitlist, and it is sometimes possible to get a seat in a charter during the school year. Resources NYC Charter School Center NYC DOE Charter School Information SUNY Charter Schools Institute Homeschool Visit the NYC DOE Home Schooling page for steps to navigate the homeschool process. Information Request Form If you are a Columbia affiliate and would like to request information on early education, child care or K-12 schooling, please complete the School & Child Care Search Service's Information Request Form. For English Language Learners Tutoring & Test Prep Options Please note: Uni log-in required to access this information. Education Supports through Bright Horizons Additional Tutoring & Test Prep Options College Coach Use College Coach to access college admissions and financial aid experts to help you navigate the college process. Part of the University's suite of Tuition Programs, College Coach is for parents of 9th -12th graders and is available at no cost to active Faculty and Staff. Contact the School & Child Care Search Service Marcia Roesch [email protected] (212) 851-9183 Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close