Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Breastfeeding Returning to Work or School Returning to Work or School Expand all Collapse all Before Returning to Work or School 1 Communicate with your supervisor/ academic advisor Communicate with your supervisor/ academic advisor before returning to work or school to let him/her know that you will be breastfeeding and will need time to use a Lactation Room during the day. 2 Determine Your Return Schedule When scheduling your return back to work or school, consider discussing your transition plan and flexibility needs with your supervisor/academic advisor, or applying for formal flexible work arrangements (if applicable). You might want to begin mid-week or start off part-time; it can be overwhelming for a new mom to go back to work/school again, so if it’s possible, try starting off slow. 3 Know Your New York State Labor Rights Keep in mind that New York State Labor Law § 206-C (established in May 2008), requires employers to allow working women to use unpaid break time or paid meal time to nurse their babies or express milk for up to three years after the birth of their child. It also requires employers to provide a reasonable space where an employee can express milk in privacy and prohibits employers from discriminating against an employee who exercises this right. 4 Arranging for Child Care When arranging for child care, consider communicating with the provider about your infant’s feeding needs, scheduling and preferences. If you need any help finding a child care provider or have any other concerns about child care and schooling, contact the Office of Work/Life's School and Child Care Search Service. 5 Introduce bottles to your baby in advance Introduce bottles to your baby no later than his/her fourth week so that he/she can become comfortable with being fed by a bottle. Babies who don’t start using the bottle by the fourth week may reject a bottle at a later date. 6 Establish your milk expression routine Try to start expressing breast milk and establishing your pattern in the days or weeks before returning to work/school so your transition back is easier. 7 Start storing a supply of breast milk Have a supply of breast milk prepared before you return to work/school. Breast milk can be stored in a refrigerator for 4-8 hours, or you can freeze the milk for up to 3-4 months. 8 Consider purchasing a nursing bra You might want to consider purchasing a nursing bra for easier access when pumping/feeding, as well as support and coverage from breast milk leakage. 9 Contact the Office of Work/Life for access to the lactation room Contact the Office of Work/Life for access to the lactation room ideally five days before returning to work/school, and for more details on the pump and attachments needed. Expand all Collapse all When You Return to Work or School 1 Bring enough milk storage containers You should bring enough milk storage containers for the number of times that you wish to pump throughout the day. 2 Label your container If you decide to store your breast milk in one of the rooms that provide refrigeration, please make sure to label your container to decrease the risk of contamination or accidentally swapping bottles. 3 Consider wearing “breast-feeding friendly” shirts/blouses Consider wearing “breast-feeding friendly” shirts/blouses that open from the front for easier access when you are pumping. 4 Bring an extra shirt/sweater/vest Bring an extra shirt/sweater/vest to wear just in case your breasts leak. 5 Bring a picture of your baby to hang up on the bulletin boards in each lactation room Seeing pictures of babies will not only help stimulate the “let down reflex” and help your breasts pump better, it is also a great way to show off your baby to other mothers using the rooms. 6 Try to relax when pumping Being relaxed will also help you pump better. Read a magazine, listen to music, and practice relaxation or breathing techniques. 7 Bring some healthy snacks and water to work/school with you. Women who are breastfeeding need extra calories and proper hydration so having a handy snack and beverage will help. Need more support? Office of Work/Life Resources The Office of Work/Life develops and offers programs and initiatives designed to help you adjust back to life at Columbia after childbirth. Lactation Room Information Contact the Office of Work/Life if you have further inquiries, concerns, or suggestions. Information For Expectant & New Parents Review these guides to University benefits, programs, and services: For Faculty & Staff For Students Explore Additional Work/Life Programs and Services Back-up Care Early Education and Child Care School and Child Care Search Service Caregiving Resources Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide University Benefits and Policies Human Resources Benefits Parental Leave Policies Flexible Work Arrangements Additional Resources La Leche League of New York New York Lactation Consultant Association Campus Breastfeeding Support Group Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close