Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Understand Work/Life Benefits and Policies Understand Work/Life Benefits and Policies The purpose of this page is to provide an overview of the Columbia University benefits and policies that are relevant to work/life. Please note that the following benefits and policies are not managed by the Office of Work/life, however, we would be glad help you think through how they may work to meet your needs. Please contact [email protected] or call (212) 854-8019. Expand all Collapse all Adoption and Foster Care Adoption is a legal process that creates a parent-child relationship between persons not related by blood; the adopted child is entitled to all privileges belonging to a biological child of the adoptive parents. The three primary types of adoption are domestic, international, and within family. Foster care is the temporary care of a child who has been placed outside his or her own home in order to provide a safe, stable, and nurturing environment during a period of family disruption. Foster parents work with the New York State Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS), along with a team of people that may include the child’s birth parents or other relatives, a law guardian, and/or other health care or service providers. The ultimate goal is to find a permanent home for the child. The OCFS evaluates and “certifies” (term used for a non-relative’s home) or “approves” (term used for a relative’s home) potential foster parents. Columbia officers who adopt a child or accept a foster child into their home are eligible for many of the same policies and benefits as parents with biological children. In addition, the Adoption Assistance Program will reimburse eligible faculty and staff for certain expenses directly related to the legal adoption of a child. Additional informational resources are available through the Employee Assistance Program, which provides: Assistance with domestic and international adoption agencies Support with stepchild adoptions and foster parent programs Resources to help understand international regulations (e.g., details on inter-country adoption and The Hague Convention) Educational resources, such as government websites on international adoption Literature to educate parents on the adoption process (e.g., types of options when adopting a child, private vs. agency adoptions and financial aid resources) For more details, visit the Humana website (username: columbia; password: eap). Adoption Assistance Program The University's Adoption Assistance Program assists full-time, benefits-eligible officers and non-union support staff with the often substantial costs incurred with adoption. Please visit the HR Benefits website for more information about the program, a complete list of expenses that qualify for reimbursement, and instructions on how to submit for reimbursement. Adoption and Foster Care Information Resources National Adoption Foundation: Provides financial assistance, services and support to families, before, during and after their adoptions are finalized. National Foster Care & Adoption Directory: Formerly the National Adoption Directory, this website offers adoption and foster care resources by State. Search the directory by public or private agency, domestic or intercountry adoption, and more. New York State Adoption Service: Provides a listing of approved adoption agencies, information on the adoption process, and links to other adoption resources on the Internet as well as information on post-adoption support. New York State Office of Children & Family Services/Foster Care: Provides an overview of foster care and information on becoming a foster parent. State of Connecticut Department of Children and Families-Office of Foster Care and Adoption: Information on becoming a licensed foster care or adoptive family or single parent; a list of adoption agencies, and more. State of New Jersey Department of Children and Families: Offers information on becoming licensed as a foster family or prospective adoptive family, kinship care, adoption subsidy for those adopting special needs children, and more. U.S. Department of State Adoption Information: Provides links to government documents regarding intercountry adoption issues. Child Care Benefit Some benefits eligible Officers may receive access to funds to use toward early child care expenses. This benefit is provided though the Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account (FSA). For eligibility requirements and additional details on how to enroll, please visit the Human Resources web page on Flexible Spending Accounts. Scroll to the bottom of the page. Staff represented by collective bargaining agreements may also have access to child care benefits. Visit the Human Resources Benefits website to review specific contract agreements. Employee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers a network of specialized services, such as information research, referral, and short-term counseling. The EAP can help you and your household members with adult/elder care management as well as mental health issues. This program also offers life coaching, convenience services, webinars, and access to retail discounts. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia University recognizes the growing demands on faculty and staff who have both professional and personal responsibilities, as well as the increasing challenge of finding new and better ways to manage people, time, space, and workload effectively. Flexible work arrangements (FWA's) are a critical resource for maintaining job satisfaction and quality of life among Columbia University staff. FWA's may promote productivity, enhance job satisfaction, enable recruitment and retention of valuable staff, and reduce greenhouse emissions consistent with the University's environmental goals. Visit this website for detailed information. Health Insurance and Flex Spending Accounts Health Insurance: Columbia offers a full range of medical and dental coverage, as well as life insurance and long-term care insurance. For additional details and eligibility requirements, please read the Benefits descriptions found on the Human Resources website. Flexible Spending Accounts: Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) allow you to save money on a wide variety of healthcare and dependent care expenses. For additional details and eligibility requirements, please read the Benefits descriptions found on the Human Resources website. Please also check the IRS's detailed listing of what medical expenses are covered, as that may apply to some of the Office of Work/Life's programming (i.e. breastfeeding equipment, weight loss programs to combat obesity, etc). Parental Policies Columbia has adopted policies to fit the needs of parents caring for children while pursuing a career. Parental policies differ depending on whether you are an Officer of Administration, Instruction, Research, or the Libraries. Visit this website for more details. Surrogacy Assistance Columbia University offers the Surrogacy Assistance Program to help eligible employees with the Eligible Expenses incurred when using a surrogate to assist in carrying and giving birth to a child. Full-time, regular Officers and full-time, regular Non-Union Support Staff are eligible for this program. The Program reimburses the Eligible Employee up to $30,000 per lifetime for Eligible Expenses. The $30,000 per lifetime limit applies to the Eligible Employee’s entire household, meaning that, if the Eligible Employee has a spouse who also qualifies as an Eligible Employee, the combined benefit the Eligible Employees may enjoy under the Program is limited to $30,000. Please visit the Human Resources website for more information. Tuition Programs Columbia University offers several programs for tuition, both at and outside of the University. At Columbia: The Tuition Exemption Benefit Program is offered for both Officers and Support Staff, so that you and your family members may take courses at Columbia. At Other Colleges: College Tuition Scholarships for Officers' children can help offset the costs of college tuition outside Columbia. At Primary Schools: Primary Tuition Scholarships for Officers' children can help offset the costs of primary schools. Some collective bargaining units offer additional tuition benefits for their members; please see Union Contracts for more information. For additional details and eligibility requirements, please read the Benefits descriptions found on the Human Resources website. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close