Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Breastfeeding Guide for Managers and Supervisors Guide for Managers and Supervisors A guide to help supervisors and managers work with their employees on taking time to express milk during the work day. Columbia University is committed to supporting the health and well-being of new parents and their babies. In recognition of the needs of nursing parents, Columbia has an institutional policy for expressing breastmilk during the work day. The following guidelines are in support of this policy, as is this FAQ document. The Breastfeeding Support Program includes access to private Lactation Rooms, managed by the Office of Work/Life, to ensure that lactating women, in particular those who do not regularly have access to private space, will be able to continue breastfeeding and carry on with their professional and academic responsibilities. If you have any additional questions, please feel free to contact the Office of Work/Life. Time for Expressing Milk The Office of Work/Life’s Breastfeeding Support Program provides access to private Lactation Rooms, equipped with hospital grade breast pumps. These pumps can increase the speed and efficiency of pumping for women. ✓ Employees should work together with their supervisors to make arrangements for taking time to express milk during work hours. ✓ Depending on an individual’s needs, expressing milk can take about 30 minutes of time away from work, plus some time for travelling to the lactation room. Time is also needed to set up equipment and clean it afterwards. ✓ When making arrangements with employees, it is important to be aware that no two women will necessarily require the same amount of time to pump. Additionally, the amount of time a woman needs to pump may vary depending on the time of day. Space for Expressing Milk Columbia University and the Office of Work/Life collaborate to meet the needs of mothers who are expressing milk by providing Lactation Rooms on each campus. ✓ A supervisor should help facilitate conversations around finding an appropriate place to express milk and refer the employee to the Office of Work/Life. ✓ As there is always a need for additional Lactation Rooms, if you know of or manage a space that could be converted into a lactation room, please contact the Office of Work/Life. ✓ Setting up a Lactation Room can be accomplished with minimal investment in space and cost. Examples of Reasonable Spaces for Expressing Milk: ✓ Any Lactation Room on one of Columbia University’s campuses ✓ A private office that can be secured and is visually private ✓ A small, unused conference room that can be secured and is visually private ✓ An area within a restroom that is separated from the restroom facility by a door Please be aware that in the absence of a door separating the room, a public restroom is not an appropriate place to pump. Information For Expectant & New Parents Review these guides to University benefits, programs, and services: For Faculty & Staff For Students Explore Additional Work/Life Programs and Services Back-up Care Early Education and Child Care School and Child Care Search Service Caregiving Resources Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide University Benefits and Policies Human Resources Benefits Parental Leave Policies Flexible Work Arrangements Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close