Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Well-Being in Your School or Department Well-Being in Your School or Department Explore ways to foster a culture of well-being in Columbia schools and departments. Office of Work/Life Resources The Office of Work/Life develops and delivers departmental, school-wide, or building-wide well-being workshops, programs, and initiatives to Columbia faculty and staff. Please note that some of these programs may be held remotely, depending on COVID-19 protocols. Request a Workshop or Program Expand all Collapse all Programs & Initiatives Field Goods As part of the EAT 5 Initiative, the Office of Work/Life is partnering with the company, Field Goods, to bring farm-fresh produce to Columbia University! Field Goods delivers fruits and vegetables from small and regional sustainable farms directly to your department or school. Weekly fruit and vegetable orders are customizable and come with tasty recipes to take home! *Field Goods was founded by Donna Williams, Columbia Business School, Class of ‘93 Duration: 6 weeks or more Cost: Minimum order of $16 per week with the option to pause or cancel subscription at any time Minimum Enrollment: 20 participants Healthier Columbia Food and Beverage Program The Healthier Columbia Food and Beverage Program offers food, beverage and nutrition recommendations that foster a healthier eating pattern for the Columbia community. Resources are available to support better food and beverage choices in various food environments. Learn more about how to adopt a healthier and more sustainable food environment in your school or department. The Office of Work/Life is available to consult on these recommendations and guidelines. Healthy Lifestyle Challenge Program The Healthy Lifestyle Challenge (HLC) is a worksite wellness program developed by the Office of Work/Life that encourages Columbia employees to make positive changes that can lead to a healthier lifestyle. As an additional benefit, the Healthy Lifestyle Challenge serves to create increased levels of inter- and intra-departmental social exchange and contributes to a positive work culture. Why Do It? Chronic conditions are among the leading causes of death in the United States although they are largely preventable with behavior adjustments. Program Aims: Increase employee satisfaction, energy, and overall health Increase level of intra-departmental social exchange and positive work culture When Is It? Weekly challenges are developed for a five-week period of time. Including registration and awards, the program lasts seven weeks total. How It Works: Each week, employees will be challenged to adopt or maintain a healthy lifestyle behavior. Week 1 - EAT 5: Eat five cups of fruits and vegetables each day Week 2 - MOVE 30: Exercise for 30 minutes a day Week 3 - TAKE 10: Take the time to relax at least 10 minutes each day Week 4 - SLEEP 7: Sleep seven hours a night Week 5 - 4 ME: Take care of yourself with daily health habits How to Launch the Program: Designate someone to coordinate a Healthy Lifestyle Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, receive materials, and set up the participant registration survey. Take the Stairs Team Challenge The Take the Stairs campaign encourages the Columbia community to choose the stairs instead of the elevator as a quick way to get physical activity and save electricity. The Mount Kilimanjaro Take the Stairs Team Challenges are designed to encourage physical activity, promote good health, and save electricity, while working together as a team. Why do it? If able, stair climbing has many benefits: Taking the stairs is good for the environment because it conserves electricity. Using the stairs is often faster than waiting for the elevator, especially during peak times. Typically, taking the stairs for trips of 7 floors or less is the fastest way to get to your destination. Walking up the stairs burns around 700% the number of calories burned standing in an elevator. Being active is healthy for your heart, muscles, and bones! Taking the stairs can improve cardiovascular health, good cholesterol, bone density, and muscular strength. Overall, being physically active can benefit your physical, mental, and cognitive well-being. Using the stairs can provide you with an energy boost during stressful times. How It Works: Challenge teams of colleagues to ‘virtually climb’ Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (2,578 flights; 38,680 steps) in 28 days. How to Launch the Program Designate someone to coordinate a Take the Stairs Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, and receive materials. [email protected] [email protected] is a challenging yet relaxing yoga experience focused on increasing flexibility, strengthening mind and body, and improving range of motion through postures, breathing exercises, and relaxation and meditation techniques. All levels welcome. Instructor: Evelyn Pate, Registered Yoga Teacher, has been teaching yoga since 2011 and has a base training in Anusara Yoga, a therapeutic and heart-themed alignment practice. She is known to the Columbia community for leading the Walk to Wellness Program at Manhattanville and yoga classes at the NYP/Plus One Fitness Center, CUMC. Format: Workshop or a longer series (5-8 weeks). Duration: 1 hour. Fee: There is a small fee to cover the instructor’s time. Note: This program is offered in partnership with Columbia Physical Education and Recreation. Comfortable, loose-fitting work attire or exercise clothes recommended. CU Fitness Challenge The CU Fitness Challenge is a mobile fitness challenge developed to help participants improve their physical fitness by engaging in 30 minutes of physical activity each day. The challenge is hosted on a mobile app, MoveSpring, so participants can manually enter their activity minutes on-the-go or sync with a fitness tracker or wearable device. Participants can stay in touch throughout the challenge through the chat function on the app where they can share their challenges, successes, favorite workout tunes, or to simply check in. Why Do It? Physical activity helps you feel better, function better, sleep better and is good for your overall health, but many of don’t know where to begin. By participating in this challenge, participants will learn new and fun ways to maintain activity throughout the week while building connections with colleagues. How it Works Participants are challenged to engage in at least 30 minutes of moderately intense physical activity every day. This can be fulfilled by engaging in an online workout, going for a power walk or jog, completing household chores like vacuuming or mowing the lawn, and so much more. The challenge can be hosted as a team or individual challenge. How to Launch the Program Designate someone to coordinate a CU Fitness Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, and onboarding. Expand all Collapse all Workshops Chair [email protected] Chair [email protected] is a restorative yoga experience focusing on relaxation practices such as stretching and breathing exercises, and meditation techniques. Chair [email protected] can be done in any office or conference room. All levels welcome. Instructor: Evelyn Pate, Registered Yoga Teacher, has been teaching yoga since 2011 and has a base training in Anusara Yoga, a therapeutic and heart-themed alignment practice. She known to the Columbia community for leading the Walk to Wellness Program at Manhattanville and the lead instructor for [email protected] Format: Workshop Duration: 30-60 minutes Fee: There is a small fee to cover the instructor’s time. Note: This program is offered in partnership with Columbia Physical Education and Recreation. Recommended attire is comfortable, loose fitting work attire or comfortable exercise clothes. EAT 5 Nutrition Workshops The EAT 5 Nutrition Initiative offers a series of nutrition workshops to help participants increase fruits and vegetable intake to get closer to reaching the goal of eating five cups per day. Each workshop includes an interactive nutrition session, food demonstration with tasty samples, recipes, and educational handouts. Workshops include: Start Your Day, the EAT 5 Way Time for Lunch, the EAT 5 Way Snacking, the EAT 5 Way Shake Up Smoothies, the EAT 5 Way EAT 5, Holiday Sides EAT 5 Nutrition Instructor: Daniela Elazari, RD, CDN, is the Director of Well-Being in Columbia University’s Office of Work/Life. She is a Registered Dietitian in NYC with over 9 years of experience in the field, specializing in weight management, mindful eating, and nutrition to optimize overall health and well-being. Format: Workshop or a longer series (3-5 sessions). Duration: 45 minutes-1 hour workshops. Fee: There is a small fee to cover the cost of food and supplies. Remote Well-Being: Healthy Habits and Spaces Much has changed over the past few months in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic as working remotely has become standard for most of us. Adjusting to this new work/life reality has meant finding innovative ways to structure our days, engineering our own home offices, learning ways to be active, and so much more. Join us for this webinar as we dish best practices and ask you to share yours too, as together we learn how to thrive in a remote work setting. Format: Workshop Duration: 45 minutes Instructors: Daniela Elazari, RD CDN, Director of Well-Being, Office of Work/Life Kevin Myers, MS, AEP, ATC, Campus Ergonomist, CUHR Fee: No fee Take a Break: Stretch and Reset Take a break and reset mid-day with the University’s Ergonomist, Kevin Myers. Each virtual session starts with stretches aimed to lengthen and restore muscles, followed by guided imagery meditation to relax the mind and body. After participating, you can continue on with refreshed muscles and a new perspective as you take on the day Format: Guided Practice Duration: 30 minutes Instructor: Kevin Myers, MS, AEP, ATC, is a Certified Athletic Trainer who holds a Master of Science in Ergonomics and Biomechanics from New York University. Kevin takes a holistic approach to workplace wellness by connecting the worker’s mind, body, and surrounding environment to enhance overall health and well-being. Attire: Athletic attire not required Fee: No fee Tune in: A Mindful Eating Workshop Nutrition is not just about what we eat, but why and how we eat too. Join us as we explore the many benefits and practices of mindful eating, including tuning into our hunger cues, experiencing food through all the senses, and noticing the many food stimuli around us. We’ll end with a mindful eating exercise so bring a fun sized food that can fit on the palm of your hand like a raisin, piece of chocolate, or your favorite nut. Format: Workshop Duration: 45 minutes Instructor: Daniela Elazari, RD, CDN, is the Director of Well-Being in Columbia University’s Office of Work/Life. She is a Registered Dietitian in NYC with over 9 years of experience in the field, specializing in weight management, mindful eating, and nutrition to optimize overall health and well-being. Fee: No fee Welcome to the Moment: A Mindfulness Workshop While minds were made to think, sometimes our wandering minds can drive us far away from the present moment. By practicing mindfulness we can bring our awareness back to the present moment, offering an opportunity to reenergize and achieve greater clarity and intention. Join Evelyn Pate, Registered Yoga Therapist and Meditation Practitioner, to explore the challenges and benefits of mindfulness, practice meditation, and so much more. Format: Workshop Duration: 45 minutes Fee: There is a small fee to cover the instructor’s time. Additional Workshops The Office of Work/Life can coordinate with Humana, Columbia University’s Employee Assistance Program to offer workshops that cover a wide range of wellness topics including but not limited to: Stress management Positive psychology Sleep health Office ergonomics These workshops are led by consultants hired by Humana and are typically one hour in length. Expand all Collapse all Additional Resources Subscribe your department or school to the Office of Work/Life Well-Being Newsletter to receive information about upcoming well-being programs and events, as well as motivational and educational emails. Are you responsible for purchasing food and beverages for your department or school? Learn about the Columbia Recommended Food and Beverage Standard and find tools on making a healthy purchase for your team or group. Columbia University Resources In addition to our own programs and initiatives, learn about other Columbia wellness programs and resources. Expand all Collapse all Access Classes Through Learning & Development The Learning and Development Office offers custom classes for individual departments. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia University recognizes the growing demands on faculty and staff who have both professional and personal responsibilities as well as the increasing challenge of finding new and better ways to effectively manage people, time, space, and workload. Flexible work arrangements (FWA's) are a critical resource for maintaining job satisfaction and quality of life among Columbia University staff. FWA's may promote productivity, enhance job satisfaction, enable recruitment and retention of valuable staff, and reduce greenhouse emissions consistent with the University's environmental goals. Visit this website for detailed information. External Resources Looking for more? Here are resources outside of Columbia. Expand all Collapse all Outside Resources Visit the CDC’s website for further information about workplace health promotion. Shruti Deshpande (School of Professional Studies) exploring the city. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close