Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Child Care & Schooling Tuition Programs Tuition Programs Columbia University offers several Tuition Programs. A brief summary is below. For additional details and eligibility requirements, please consult the Tuition Program Benefits page on the Human Resources website. Studying at Columbia University: The Tuition Exemption Benefit Program is offered for both Officers and Support Staff, so that you and your family members may take courses at Columbia. Studying at Other Colleges & Universities: The College Tuition Scholarship for Officers' children can help offset the costs of college tuition outside of Columbia. Private K-8 Schools: The Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS) for Officers' children can help offset the costs of K-8 private schools in the five boroughs of NYC. Some collective bargaining units offer additional tuition benefits for their members. Please see Union Contracts and the relevant sections of Human Resources Tuition Program Benefits page for more information. College Coach Use College Coach to access college admissions and financial aid experts to help you navigate the college process. Part of the University's suite of Tuition Programs, College Coach is for parents of 9th -12th graders and is available at no cost to active Faculty and Staff. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close