Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Wellness Challenges Wellness Challenges The Office of Work/Life offers wellness challenges to support your well-being. Expand all Collapse all The CU Fitness Challenge The CU Fitness Challenge is a mobile fitness challenge developed to help participants improve their physical fitness by engaging in 30 minutes of physical activity each day. The challenge is hosted on a mobile app, MoveSpring, so participants can manually enter their activity minutes on-the-go or sync with a fitness tracker or wearable device. Participants can stay in touch throughout the challenge through the chat function on the app where they can share their challenges, successes, favorite workout tunes, or to simply check in. Why Do It? Physical activity helps you feel better, function better, sleep better and is good for your overall health, but many of don’t know where to begin. By participating in this challenge, participants will learn new and fun ways to maintain activity throughout the week while building connections with colleagues. How it Works Participants are challenged to engage in at least 30 minutes of moderately intense physical activity every day. This can be fulfilled by engaging in an online workout, going for a power walk or jog, completing household chores like vacuuming or mowing the lawn, and so much more. The challenge can be hosted as a team or individual challenge. How to Launch the Program Designate someone to coordinate a CU Fitness Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, and onboarding. Healthy Lifestyle Challenge The Healthy Lifestyle Challenge (HLC) is a worksite wellness program developed by the Office of Work/Life that encourages Columbia employees to make positive changes which can lead to a healthier lifestyle. As an additional benefit, the Healthy Lifestyle Challenge serves to create increased levels of inter- and intra-departmental social exchange and contributes to a positive work culture. Why Do It? Chronic conditions are among the leading causes of death in the United States although they are largely preventable with behavior adjustments. Program Aims: Increase employee satisfaction, energy, and overall health Increase level of interdepartmental social exchange and positive work culture When Is It? Weekly challenges are developed for a five week period of time. Including registration and awards, the program lasts seven weeks total. How It Works: Each week, employees will be challenged to adopt of maintain a healthy lifestyle behavior. Week 1 - EAT 5: Eat five cups of fruits and vegetables each day Week 2 - MOVE 30: Exercise for 30 minutes a day Week 3 - TAKE 10: Take the time to relax at least 10 minutes each day Week 4 - SLEEP 7: Sleep seven hours a night Week 5 - 4 ME: Take care of yourself with daily health habits How to Launch the Program Designate someone to coordinate a Healthy Lifestyle Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, receive materials, and set-up the participant registration survey. Take the Stairs Team Challenge The Take the Stairs campaign encourages the Columbia community to choose the stairs instead of the elevator as a quick way to get physical activity and save electricity. The Mount Kilimanjaro Take the Stairs Team Challenges are designed to encourage physical activity, promote good health, and save electricity, while working together as a team. Why do it? If able, stair climbing has many benefits: Taking the stairs is good for the environment because it conserves electricity. Using the stairs is often faster than waiting for the elevator, especially during peak times. Typically, taking the stairs for trips of 7 floors or less is the fastest way to get to your destination. Walking up the stairs burns around 700% the number of calories burned standing in an elevator. Being active is healthy for your heart, muscles, and bones! Taking the stairs can improve cardiovascular health, good cholesterol, bone density, and muscular strength. Overall, being physically active can benefit your physical, mental, and cognitive well-being. Using the stairs can provide you with an energy boost during stressful times. How It Works: Challenge teams of colleagues to ‘virtually climb’ Mount Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (2,578 flights; 38,680 steps) in 28 days. How to Launch the Program Designate someone to coordinate a Take the Stairs Challenge in your department or school. Have the coordinator contact the Office of Work/Life to register, discuss logistics, and receive materials. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close