Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Parent Connection Parent Connection A New Resource for Columbia Families Although no one has all the answers for the challenges facing parents during COVID-19, Parent Connection is an opportunity to discover other Columbia families who have children the same ages, might go to the same school (but you didn’t know it!) or live in the same neighborhood. You can opt in and search for others who may want to share caregiving or school pick-ups, hire a caregiver together, or just make a new family friend. Do you want to learn more about a particular school? Parent Connection can also help you find families who are already enrolled who may be willing to share their experience. How does Parent Connection work? If you’d like to participate, please fill out the brief form below. After you submit the form (scroll to the bottom of the page), you’ll be given access to the list with info on other participating families. (Please allow 2 -3 days to receive an email with the access information.) You can search the list by any of the factors -- feel free to reach out to others – it’s as simple as that. Just remember that this is ONLY for Columbia families – please do not share with others. Loading… Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close