Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Food and Nutrition Food and Nutrition Eating a healthy diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean and plant-based proteins, and healthy fats not only promotes overall good health and weight control but also provides you with essential nutrients that can keep you energized throughout the day. Office of Work/Life Resources The Office of Work/Life develops and offers programs and initiatives designed to help you eat a healthful diet- one that focuses on foods and beverages that promote health and prevent chronic disease. Expand all Collapse all Healthier Columbia Food and Beverage Initiative The Healthier Columbia Food and Beverage Initiative offers food, beverage and nutrition recommendations that foster a healthier eating pattern for the Columbia community. Resources are available to support better food and beverage choices in various food environments. EAT 5 Initiative The EAT 5 Initiative is designed to help you integrate more fruits and vegetables into your diet and get you closer to reaching the goal of eating five cups per day. Eating 5 cups of fruits and vegetables daily provides nutrients vital for the health and maintenance of the body, may protect against chronic conditions like heart disease and type 2 diabetes, and can promote an overall healthy weight. This initiative offers a series of nutrition workshops designed to help participants increase fruits and vegetable intake to get closer to reaching the goal of eating five cups per day. Each workshop offers an interactive nutrition discussion, food demonstration with tasty samples, take home recipes, and more. Sessions are available to individual departments and schools or buildings within the university. To learn more or schedule a session in your school/department, please fill out this brief form. EAT 5 Meal Planning Resources As part of the EAT 5 Initiative, meal planning guides are available to support good nutrition, energy, and overall well-being. EAT 5 Breakfast Guide Start your day with key foods, including whole grains, to support energy, concentration, and mood. EAT 5 Lunch Guide Recharge midday with an EAT 5 lunch, to keep you buzzing through the afternoon. EAT 5 Dinner Guide End the day with a nutritious dinner, rich in essential nutrients to promote good sleep, and overall well-being. EAT 5 Holiday Sides Cookbook Celebrate the holidays the EAT 5 way with these recipes for delicious side dishes. EAT 5 Recipes As part of the EAT 5 Initiative, recipes are available to help you get closer to the goal of eating five cups of fruits and vegetables each day. Breakfast: Mango Banana Smoothie Apple-Cinna-Blueberry Overnight Oatmeal Lunch: Farro Edamame Salad Quinoa and Fresh Herb Salad Dinner: Power Bowls Chili Spiced Kale and ‘Shroom Tacos Whole Grain Pasta with Carrot Top Pesto and Cherry Tomatoes Soup, Salad, and Sides: Green Bean Potato Salad Moroccan and Farro Lentil Soup Roasted Butternut Squash Salad Broccoli and Cauliflower Core Slaw Snacks: Broccoli Stem Hummus Baked Banana Chips Beet Hummus with Baby Carrots Spice Exploration Guide The secret to adding flavor, color, and antioxidants to meals is simple— try spices! By using spices, you can significantly reduce your salt intake, diversify your meals, and explore flavors from around the world. Get started with the Spice Exploration Guide! Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide The Nourishing Mom and Baby guide is designed to help women make informed food choices and prepare for the nutritional demands of pregnancy and lactation. This comprehensive guide shares pre- and postnatal nutrition guidance, meal planning tips, and tasty recipes to support maternal and child health. Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide Field Goods As part of the EAT 5 Initiative, the Office of Work/Life is partnering with the company, Field Goods, to bring farm-fresh produce to Columbia University! Field Goods delivers fruits and vegetables from small and regional sustainable farms directly to your department or school. Weekly fruit and vegetable orders are customizable and come with tasty recipes to take home! *Field Goods was founded by Donna Williams, Columbia Business School, Class of ‘93 Duration: 6 weeks or more Cost: Minimum order of $16 per week with the option to pause or cancel subscription at any time Minimum Enrollment: 20 participants To learn more or to bring Field Goods to your school/department, please fill out this brief form. Columbia University Resources Besides our own programs and initiatives, you can also get involved with these other Columbia programs and resources. Expand all Collapse all Green Markets Columbia Green Market and Fort Washington Green Market GrowNYC ‘s farmers markets are available at two campus locations, offering fresh, healthy, and local food to the Columbia community. I Love NY Water I Love NY Water is a campaign that promotes the benefits of drinking New York tap water and creates awareness of the environmental impact and costs associated with disposable, bottled water. Download a map of available bottle refill stations on the CUMC campus. Corbin Hill Food Project Farmshare The Columbia Community Partnership for Health, part of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Transitional Research, is partnering with the Corbin Hill Food Project to bring weekly, flexible subscription-based produce shares distributed at locations throughout New York City, including Washington Heights. Sign up at Corbin Hill Food Project. Columbia Dining Find a number of Columbia Dining resources including a Healthy Eating Guide and tools to help you eat healthier both on and off campus. Wellness Coaching via Columbia Medical Plan Wellness Coaching is a healthy lifestyle program available to Columbia University medical plan participants and dependents at no additional cost. Work with a wellness coach telephonically with additional web-based support to help you eat better, move more, and lose weight. To learn more or to enroll, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357 or visit this website. RALLY Digital Health Experience RALLY is an engaging digital health experience that starts with a quick health survey to measure your overall health and then recommends simple activities to help improve your diet, fitness, and mood. Rally is available through www.myuhc.com or visit www.columbia.werally.com . For more information or to learn if you are eligible, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357. Work with a Registered Dietitian Columbia University employees and dependents covered under the university’s medical plan may be eligible for coverage for nutrition counseling with a Registered Dietitian. For more information or to learn if you are eligible, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357. External Resources Looking for more? Here are resources outside of Columbia. Expand all Collapse all Outside Resources Learn more about the Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020 and how the new nutrition facts label can help you improve your health. Access the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene’s Guide to Healthy Eating & Active Living in NYC and other healthy eating resources for you and your family. Try Meatless Monday recipes supporting a global movement with a simple message: once a week, cut the meat. Engage in a weekly opportunity to cook and eat as a family with support from Kid’s Cook Monday- try family friendly recipes, educational resources, and a family cooking toolkit. Review the National Institutes of Health’s fact sheets on multivitamin/mineral dietary supplements and herbs/botanicals— learn common names, what the science says, potential side effects and cautions, and resources for more information. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close