Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Well-Being Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Explore meal planning resources Guides and Recipes Take a yoga break with Work/Life Access Videos Guided Mindfulness Meditation Access Well-Being Programs Anytime Video Library Previous Next Well-Being Resources During COVID-19 Resources to support your well-being as we all adjust to new realities. Working Remotely: Tips for Well-Being Well-Being Resources During COVD-19 Video Library Remote Work Tips for Managers WELL-BEING IN THE OFFICE OF WORK/LIFE Programs and Workshops Remote and on-site well-being programs and workshops are offered each semester. Offerings include: physical activity programs, wellness challenges, nutrition workshops and more. Tools and Resources for Departments Workshops and programs are delivered to departments, schools, and buildings upon request. Offerings include: yoga, ergonomic programming, nutrition and mindfulness workshops, and wellness challenge programs. Additional offerings may be available upon request. Campus Initiatives Work/Life collaborates on the development and delivery of healthy and sustainable campus initiatives. Current initiatives include: Bicycle Friendly University, Columbia Recommended Food and Beverage Standard, Take the Stairs campaign, and more. I Want To child icon Find a Fitness Discount cutlery icon Eat Well balance-scale icon Meditate desktop icon Set Up My Computer Workstation bicycle icon Commute by Bicycle heart icon Offer a Wellness Workshop for my Department book icon Access HR Benefits Wellness Programs hand-paper icon Join a Wellness Challenge check-circle icon Access the Employee Assistance Program Well-Being Programs Physical Activity Programs designed to help you meet the recommended federal physical activity guidelines for physical and muscle-strengthening activity. Food & Nutrition These programs can help you learn to eat a healthful diet focused on foods and beverages that promote health and prevent chronic disease. Weight Management Achieving and maintaining a healthy body weight has a positive impact on physical health and can improve energy, general mood, and self-confidence. Mental & Emotional Wellbeing These programs promote positive mental and emotional health, build social connectedness, and support relaxation and stress management techniques. Sleep Health Learn how to develop good sleep habits in order to stay healthy and help your body and mind rest and recharge. Department Resources & Tools A list of departmental, school-wide, and building-wide well-being workshops, programs, and initiatives. Connect with us! Stay up-to-date and receive information about Office of Work/Life well-being programs and other related events at the University as well as motivational and educational e-mails. Subscribe Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close