Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Subscribe to Office of Work/Life E-Newsletters Subscribe to Office of Work/Life E-Newsletters The Office of Work/Life offers four e-newsletters. Choose the one that is right for you and subscribe today! Office of Work/Life Updates Sign-up to receive periodic updates about timely work/life issues. SUBSCRIBE Well-Being Newsletter Stay up-to-date and receive information about Office of Work/Life well-being programs and other related events at the University as well as motivational and educational e-mails. SUBSCRIBE Pre-K & Kindergarten NYC Newsletter The Office of Work/Life's School and Child Care Search Service issues a bi-monthly newsletter for Columbia families with children who will be attending Pre-Kindergarten or Kindergarten in a New York City public, charter, faith-based, or independent school. By sharing step-by-step application and admissions information with parents, we seek to support the success of Columbia families as they raise young children in New York City. SUBSCRIBE RE-NYC Real Estate Newsletter RE-NYC, our monthly housing newsletter, keeps subscribers up-to-date on the latest in NYC’s real estate trends, delivering timely and relevant information to your in-box including select area listings, an ‘Ask-the-Expert’ column, assistance in demystifying real estate lingo, local resources and more—all to help you become more savvy as you navigate the unique and fast-paced NYC market. SUBSCRIBE Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close