Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Child Care & Schooling Elementary School Information Elementary School Information Schooling options for students from Kindergarten to grade 4 or 5. Click the links below to learn more about: Public Schools Independent Schools Faith-Based Schools Charter Schools Homeschool Public Schools Public schools are tuition-free and are funded at the local, state, and federal levels. New York City (NYC), consisting of 5 boroughs (Manhattan, Brooklyn, The Bronx, Queens, and Staten Island) is home to the largest public school system in the country. There are 32 school districts in NYC and most districts are divided into smaller “zones.” The New York City Department of Education operates public schools in the city with leadership from the Mayor and a schools Chancellor. Any child who is a NYC resident is entitled to receive a free K-12 education, and a variety of options exist. Expand all Collapse all Requirements Only those with NYC residency may apply for or enroll in NYC public schools. If you plan to move to NYC, note that registration cannot take place until residency has been established and NYC public schools will not hold spots. What to consider when looking at schools Ages/grade-level served Availability of before or after-school programming Educational philosophy and curriculum Location School building facilities and resources that support academics and extra-curricular activities Size (individual class size and school as a whole) and teacher-to-student ratio Admissions The admissions process for public schools, including public Kindergarten admissions, is described on the NYC DOE website. The admissions process can vary depending on the child's grade, type of school, and point of entry. Additional information is provided below, but it is very important to consult the NYC DOE website for the latest information as policies and procedures can change. Your child is generally guaranteed a seat in your zoned school, space permitting (See “Zoned Schools” below for more information). NYC Public Elementary School - General Admissions Timeline Resources Websites InsideSchools: Independent information about NYC public schools. NYC Department of Education Chalkbeat New York: a nonprofit news organization covering education in several U.S. communities, including NYC. School Book: publishes news and data about schools in NYC. Recommended Book New York City's Best Public Elementary Schools: A Parents' Guide. Clara Hemphill. Expand all Collapse all Types of Public Schools Zoned Schools A child’s home address determines his or her zoned school. A zoned school serves residents who live in the specific geographic area designated for that school. A child is guaranteed a spot at his or her zoned school, space permitting, but families must still apply. If there is no space in the zoned school, another school assignment will be made. To find the zoned school for your address, please use the NYC DOE search tool or call 311. Non-Zoned Schools Non-zoned or "un-zoned" schools do not have a zone (no set of addresses is assigned to these schools). In addition, some schools are designated as “magnet schools” and receive federal grants to encourage racial integration. The grant money is also used to offer a specialized curriculum which may include courses that strengthen students’ academic skills along with vocational options. These schools are open to all students within a given district and admissions is frequently done by lottery. For more information, visit: NYC DOE to find non-zoned schools in the area InsideSchools: Independent information about NYC public schools Gifted & Talented The NYC DOE’s Gifted & Talented (G&T) programs seek to offer an accelerated rigorous curriculum and the opportunity to be in a class with other academically high-performing children. Eligibility to apply to G&T programs is determined by a standardized assessment. Students entering Kindergarten through Grade 3 who have qualifying scores and are residents of NYC are eligible to apply. The popularity of these programs has increased in recent years, and there are now many more children who earn qualifying scores than there are seats available in G&T programs. Two types of G&T programs exist: District G&T programs which prioritize students who live in the district. Most of the city’s 32 districts offer one or more G&T programs. Citywide G&T schools which accept students from all boroughs with no admission priority based on where a student lives. The five Citywide G&T programs are: Manhattan Anderson School: K-8 school on the Upper West Side NEST+M: K-12 school on the Lower East Side Talented and Gifted School for Young Scholars (TAG): K-8 school in East Harlem Brooklyn Brooklyn School of Inquiry: K-8 school in Bensonhurst Queens PS/IS 300, The 30th Avenue School: K-8 school in Astoria Admissions The admissions process for the G&T program is described on the NYC DOE website. Testing is required. You must submit a request for testing to the DOE in the fall prior to the academic year in which you would like your child to enter the G&T program. Testing generally takes place in January or February, and applications are generally due in the spring. Assessments are the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test (OLSAT) and the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test (NNAT), which are administered together. See the NYC DOE G&T Testing Information Page to learn more about these assessments. Scores in the 90th percentile or above are eligible for admission to a District G&T program. Scores in the 97th percentile or above are eligible for citywide programs. (In recent years, most citywide programs have admitted only children who score in the 99th percentile). Additional Options Two additional schools that are distinct from the G&T programs, but also offer accelerated, rigorous curricula are: Hunter College Elementary School, open to Manhattan children entering kindergarten only. Special Music School on the Upper West Side, open to musically gifted children citywide. Each of these schools has its own admissions process. Please see the school websites for specific application and admissions procedures. Dual Language Dual Language programs are housed within public schools and typically have classes in which approximately half the students are native speakers of English, and half speak another language. Classes are taught in each language, frequently on alternating days, and the children are expected to become proficient in both languages. Admissions Because these programs are housed in public schools, admissions procedures are similar to those for the public schools, with some additional information about language proficiency often required. Some Resources NYC DOE Kindergarten Directories. Dual Language programs are listed in the NYC DOE’s Kindergarten Directories under the listing for the elementary school in which they are housed. While these listings are in the Kindergarten Directory, entry into Dual Language programs is not restricted to Kindergarten. InsideSchools also provides information about Dual Language programs. Independent Schools The term independent school is most frequently used to refer to a private school that is tuition-based and not dependent on government funding. New York City is home to a wide variety of independent school options. Every independent school has its own unique mission and selects students through its own self-defined admissions process. Residential address is not a factor in independent school admissions. Expand all Collapse all What to consider when looking at schools Ages/grade-level served Availability of before- or after-school programming Co-educational or single sex (“all girls” or “all boys”) Cost and availability of financial aid Educational philosophy and curriculum Location School building facilities and resources that support academics and extra-curricular activities Size (individual class size and school as a whole) and teacher-to-student ratio Admissions Process and Timeline Independent schools will communicate their admissions deadlines on their own websites and applicant families are expected to adhere to these deadlines. Start early! You can begin to explore independent school options a year or more prior to the date of planned enrollment. Starting your exploration during the spring or summer before the application year is advisable. Schools hold tours and open houses in the spring and early fall. Expect to set aside time for touring and—for any schools to which you decide to apply—the interview process. Some Resources: NYC Independent Schools - General Admissions Timeline Independent School Notification and Reply Dates Application Requirements Completed application (typically found on each school’s website) Confidential School Report, completed by the child’s current school Teacher recommendations Many schools also require: Standardized testing or assessment (examples include AABL, ECAA, ISEE) Parent statement Parent tour/interview and child visit Always check specific school website for admissions requirements. Affordability and Financial Aid Financial aid is available at most independent schools. Awards are based on the determined need of the family and repayment is not required. Independent Schools make aid available in order to attract socioeconomic diversity in the interest of building a community that includes a wide range of views and life experiences. Families who intend to seek financial aid should note the following: To apply, you must request and complete a financial aid application and submit it by the deadline. While aid is available, there is an expectation that families will finance their children's education to the extent that they are able. Because financial aid is limited, it is suggested that families planning to apply for aid should generally apply for admission to 8-10 independent schools. Tuition is the amount of money the school asks families to pay. When comparing schools, find out whether there are any additional fees for things such as lunch, books, before- or after-school care, trips or activities. Many schools use outside financial aid services such as School and Student Services (SSS), Financial Aid for School Tuition (FAST), or TADS to determine financial aid need. While most schools only offer need-based aid, some schools also offer scholarships based on criteria other than economic circumstances. Additionally, some schools offer sibling discounts. Many schools offer tuition payment plans which allow families to pay tuition in monthly installments. Primary Tuition Scholarship (PTS): For eligible full-time regular salaried Officers, the PTS program pays between 10% and 35% of your dependent child’s tuition in Grades K-8 at a private school within the five boroughs of New York City, based on eligible family income. Resources and Additional Information Additional Financial Aid Information: National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS): Paying for School NAIS: About Financial Aid Some Resources: Independent Schools Admissions Association of Greater New York (ISAAGNY) New York State Association of Independent Schools (NYSAIS) Parents League of New York Connecticut Association of Independent Schools (CAISCT) New Jersey Association of Independent Schools (NJAIS) Diversity Resources and Opportunities: Early Steps, Inc. assists parents of color through the independent school application, admissions, and financial aid process for children entering Kindergarten or Grade 1. George Jackson Academy is a selective independent all-boys school in Manhattan that enrolls students from low-income families in Grades 4-8. Prep for Prep identifies New York City's promising students of color in Grades 5 and 6 and prepares them for placement in independent schools in the city and boarding schools throughout the Northeast. Faith-Based Schools Faith-based schools are private schools maintained and supported by a religious body (e.g., Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, Islamic). These schools are separate from the public school system and religious instruction is included in the curriculum. Expand all Collapse all Admissions The Admissions Process varies from school to school – check websites for specific details on timelines and requirements Residential address is not a factor in faith-based school admissions Charter Schools Charter schools are free public schools that are independent of the Department of Education and operate under a contract or “charter” of up to five years. Many charter schools have unique educational approaches that might include longer days and/or a longer school year, or thematic programs. Any student eligible for admission to a New York City public school is eligible for admission to a public charter school. Expand all Collapse all Admissions Each charter admits students by lottery in April. Applications are available on the New York City Charter School Center website or at the individual schools (Some schools will accept a common application.) Anyone may apply, but preference goes to children living in the school district in which the charter is located. Most charters maintain a waitlist, and it is sometimes possible to get a seat in a charter during the school year. Some Resources NYC Charter School Center NYC DOE Charter School Information SUNY Charter Schools Institute Homeschool Visit the NYC DOE Home Schooling page for steps to navigate the homeschool process. Information Request Form If you are a Columbia affiliate and would like to request information on early education, child care or K-12 schooling, please complete the School & Child Care Search Service's Information Request Form. Pre-K & K NYC Newsletter Tutoring & Test Prep Options Please note: Uni log-in required to access this information. Education Supports through Bright Horizons Additional Tutoring & Test Prep Options The School at Columbia For English Language Learners Contact the School & Child Care Search Service Marcia Roesch [email protected] (212) 851-9183 Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close