Professional and Continuing Education Course Login Select Search Specific Course Certificate Home Courses and Certificates Certificate Programs Courses Resources For Companies About Us Level Up Your Skills Oregon State University's Professional and Continuing Education can help you achieve a new level of success - in as little as five weeks. Turn your hobby into a potential career Become more marketable and command a higher salary Earn a respected OSU credential around your schedule Get Started Now Available Customized Team Training For Companies Accelerate your organization's results with customized training, which can help you recruit and retain an amazing team! START HERE. GO ANYWHERE. With year-round short courses that are taught by OSU faculty and industry-based experts, you can gain immediately applicable skills in gardening, beer, education and more Watch Video Home Horticulture Certificate Learn the art and science of growing and caring for plants. In this 100% online program, you will learn everything from basic botany to composting to sustainable landscaping. Plus, you'll connect with like-minded gardeners and build an online community. Permaculture Design Certificate Learn online from world-leading permaculture practitioners as you create your own sustainable design Learn More Technical Writing Certificate In this online Technical Writing Certificate series, you will learn how to produce effective, clean, and reader-centered documents in an efficient manner. Learn More E-Learning Instructional Design and Development Certificate Learn the Latest Developments in Instructional Design for Online Education Learn More Home Horticulture Certificate Receive the same training as the popular Master Gardener program. In this online program, you will apply the fundamental lessons on the art and science of growing and caring for plants. Learn More Distillery Startup Workshop Gain foundational knowledge to start your own distillery. Learn More STEAM Certificate: Learning, Teaching and Communicating in STEAM Unique and enriching professional development opportunities for professionals based in zoos, museums, parks, cultural centers or other public settings. Learn More Growing Farms: Successful Whole Farm Management Gain the tools and knowledge needed to develop and manage a successful farm business. Learn More FREE Introduction to Urban Agriculture In this urban gardening and farming program, you'll learn about growing fresh healthy produce and adding natural beauty to your neighborhood. Learn More "I incorporated what I learned in teaching the general public about gardening and it greatly enhanced my classes. I enjoyed the online flexibility, quality instructors, and the ability to revisit lectures via weblink. I would recommend this program due to the benefits mentioned above, plus the quality, research-based information. OSU made online learning easy and I highly value the quality content and instructors." Sherry Sheng Portland, OR INSTRUCTOR SPOTLIGHT Andrew Millison Permaculture Design Certificate Andrew Millison has been studying, designing, building, and teaching about Permaculture systems since 1996 and is an instructor in the Department of Horticulture at Oregon State University. He instructs Advanced Permaculture Courses in Teaching, and has guest instructed for many Permaculture courses throughout the Western US. Learn More Signe Danler Master Gardener Online Signe Danler is a veteran Master Gardener and landscape designer with a Masters of Ag degree in Horticulture. In the Master Gardener Online program, she uses her experience and training in gardening, urban forestry and ecological landscaping to communicate about and promote sustainable gardening and landscaping practices. Tom Shellhammer Beer Quality and Analysis Series Tom Shellhammer is the Nor’Wester Professor of Fermentation Science in the Department of Food Science and Technology at Oregon State University, where he directs the brewing education component of the fermentation science program and teaches courses about brewing science and technology, beer and raw materials analyses, plus the history, business and technology of the wine, beer and spirits industries. Dr. Elizabeth Tomasino Dr. Elizabeth Tomasino is an Associate Professor of Enology at OSU. She has had the opportunity to study the wine industry world-wide, including in Europe and New Zealand. Her research interests lie in wine sensory analysis and flavor chemistry. A main research includes determining relationships between sensory and chemical data, particularly those aroma compounds important for wine quality and regional differentiation. Sam Schwartz Sam Schwartz teaches writing and literature at Oregon State University. He earned a Ph.D. in English from the University of Arizona, and has taught at universities in Virginia and Tennessee. His interest in writing about craft beverages is inspired by the wealth and vitality of craft beverage culture throughout the Willamette Valley. Paul Hughes, MBA, PhD After gaining his PhD in chemistry from the University of London, Paul moved into the brewing research sector in 1990. After spells as an industry-sponsored research scientist and then principal scientist with Heineken International, Paul moved to Heriot-Watt University in 2005 as Professor of Brewing and Distilling and director of the International Centre for Brewing and Distilling. Paul moved to Oregon in 2015 and helped establish his popular Distillery Startup Workshop program and has been a featured author for publications like The Whiskey Wash and other distilling publications. Elliot Lavine Elliot Lavine has been a film programmer of national repute since 1990, both in the San Francisco Bay Area and now here in Portland. In 2010, he received the Marlon Riggs Award from the San Francisco Film Critics Circle for his revival of rare archival titles and his role in the renewed popularity of film noir. He has taught film studies courses for Stanford's Continuing Studies Program since 2006. Josh Bancroft E-Learning Instructional Design and Development Certificate Josh Bancroft is a lifelong geek who taught himself to type in computer programs to play games when he was 5 years old, and has been fascinated by the intersection of learning and technology ever since. Josh has a Masters degreee in Adult Education and Organizational Development from Oregon State University, and works on software education and community initiatives in the Developer Relations group at Intel. Ann Custer, MPH, OTR, CHES Ann supports OSU's College of Public Health and Human Sciences in building capacity of the current and future public health and human sciences workforce to meet the needs of individuals, families, and communities. Her work focuses on managing a portfolio of professional development offerings related to public health and human sciences. It involves collaboration with a variety of internal and external partners, including faculty, industry, and governmental agencies. DOWNLOAD YOUR FREE EBOOK Discover the proven methods that can accelerate your learning to maximize your potential! Download ACCESS ON-DEMAND WEBINAR Check out this free webinar and learn how to access 80% of jobs that are never posted. Access Now WHICH PROGRAM IS RIGHT FOR YOU? You might love all things gardening and growing, but which one is right for you? Let's find out with this simple quiz! Start Quiz ON DEMAND MICROLEARNING LESSON In the free microlearning lesson on student engagement, you will learn how to grab and keep a learner's attention and boost understanding. Access NOW ~ Audrey Ragle Asbury Park, NJ “This course was a great way to refresh some familiar topics and expand my skill set and network! I found it especially valuable being able to discuss with industry experts such as Dr. Shellhammer and Dr. Curtis. Interacting with professors who could answer my questions about the specifics of what we did in the lab and topics we discussed in the classroom was invaluable. I also thoroughly enjoyed the tour of the barley and malting labs.” WE CAN HELP YOU GET THERE With online courses that fit around your schedule, year-round start dates, immediate registration (no application needed), and expert instructors, we can help you gain the expertise and skills you need to achieve. Whether you live in Oregon or Australia or whether you're a former alum or never seen an OR rainfall, we can help you reach your goals big or small. 100,000 Learners Over 100,000 learners have started a business, gotten promoted, dug into their garden and more through our programs! 93% Would Recommend Of our past students polled, 93% would recommend us to a friend. Get Started Today Step 1 Explore the course catalog Step 2 Choose your course/certificate Step 3 Sign up and register Step 4 Start learning when the course starts Professional and Continuing Education Home About Us Learning Resources For Companies Get Started Services Privacy Policy Follow Us On © Oregon State University | All Rights Reserved Send us a message | 541-737-4197 | 122 SW Waldo Place Corvallis, OR 97331 | Get Free Newsletter