Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Housing & Relocation Rental Guide Rental Guide Rental Guide (pdf for printing) Renting an apartment in New York might seem daunting, but proper preparation will make it easier. The process is outlined below, with further clarification and information in our Rental Guide. Questions? If you are affiliated with Columbia University, contact the Office of Work/Life, Housing Information and Referral Service, Alice Lesman, at [email protected] for referrals, as well as general advice and information. Disclaimer: The content in this document is provided for informational purposes only. It is not intended to provide legal advice and should not substitute for the advice of an experienced real estate attorney. Also, the links and references to web sites and organizations are provided for informational purposes only. Columbia University does not endorse any specific organization, web site, or real estate professional and does not suggest that one source should be utilized to the exclusion of another. Quick Links Housing Information and Referral Service Program Flyer Columbia University Faculty Housing Policy Columbia Residential Moving Guide Rental Guide Visitor Housing Related Links Columbia Preferred Moving and Storage Vendors Parking - Morningside & Manhattanville Parking - CUIMC RE-NYC Newsletter Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close