Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Weight Management Weight Management Introduction Achieving and maintaining a healthy body weight not only has a positive impact on physical health but can also improve energy, general mood, and self-confidence. Take the time to implement proper nutrition and physical activity as part of your lifestyle to promote healthy and successful weight loss. While it is natural to want to lose weight quickly, evidence shows that people who lose weight gradually and steadily (1-2 pounds per week) are more successful at keeping it off. If you are thinking about losing weight, consider first assessing your weight with this Body Mass Index (BMI) calculator, a measure of body fat, while also noting its limitations. Columbia University Resources Get involved with these Columbia weight management programs. Expand all Collapse all The Weight Control Center The Weight Control Center (WCC) addresses the need for patients to have their weight issues managed compassionately and accurately based on evidenced based medicine. The WCC offers individual nutrition appointments with a Registered Dietitian as well as the Weight Control in 12-Weeks Group Program, interactive, registered dietician-led weight management groups that focus on making long-term changes for a healthier lifestyle. To learn more or schedule an appointment, contact The Weight Control Center at 212-305-5568. Columbia Medical Plan Wellness Coaching is a healthy lifestyle program available to Columbia University medical plan participants and dependents at no additional cost. Work with a wellness coach telephonically with additional web based support to help you eat better, move more and lose weight. To learn more or to enroll call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357 or visit this website. RALLY is an engaging digital health experience that starts with a quick Health Survey to measure your overall health and then recommends simple activities to help improve your diet, fitness, and mood- and can support weight loss. Rally is available through www.myuhc.com or visit www.columbia.werally.com . For more information or to learn if you are eligible, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357. Work with a Registered Dietitian. Columbia University employees and dependents covered under the university’s medical plan may be eligible for coverage for nutrition counseling with a Registered Dietitian. For more information or to learn if you are eligible, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357. Weight Management Tips Follow these useful suggestions to help you achieve your weight management goals. Expand all Collapse all Turn up the volume with fruits and vegetables Fill half your plate with naturally low-calorie and nutrient-dense fruits and vegetables. Focus on whole fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables over dried or canned varieties and juices. The water in fruits and vegetables will add volume to your dishes so you can eat the same amount of food with fewer calories. Follow our EAT 5 goal of 5 cups daily {2 cups fruit, 3 cups vegetables} or consider adding 1 cup of fruit and/or vegetables at each meal and snack. Rethink your drink Calories in drinks are not hidden (they're listed right on the Nutrition Facts label), but many people don't realize just how many calories beverages can contribute to their daily intake. Calories from drinks can really add up, but there is good news: you have plenty of options for reducing the number of calories in what you drink. Eat breakfast Including breakfast as part of the daily morning routine is associated with attaining and maintaining weight loss, which can be due to better blood sugar control and preventing overeating later in the day. Some healthy breakfast ideas include: Whole grain cereal with lowfat milk and banana slices Whole grain English muffin with hardboiled eggs and apple slices Oatmeal with strawberries, chopped walnuts, and cinnamon Snack smart Choosing lower-calorie and nutrient-dense snacks can help maintain energy in between meals, provide essential nutrients, and may prevent overeating at mealtime. Some smart snack ideas include: Baby carrots and hummus An apple and tablespoon of peanut butter Berries and unsweetened yogurt Calories count, but so do nutrients While it is important to get your calories, or energy, from nutrient-dense sources (i.e., fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, nuts, and seeds), eating too many calories can contribute to weight gain. Cutting excess calories from your diet can enable weight loss. Find some examples to cut calories while maintaining or enhancing nutrient intake. Practice proper portions Pay attention to serving sizes on nutrition labels and set an intention to eat appropriate portion sizes in all settings. When dining at home, use smaller plates and bowls to prevent over eating. When eating snacks from large containers, measure out a one-serving portion in a bowl rather than eating straight out of the package. When visiting a restaurant, consider ordering an appetizer potion rather than an entrée size or ask the wait person for a “to-go” box and wrap up half your meal as soon as it is brought to the table. Eat mindfully Bring your full awareness to your meal or snack—pay attention to the taste, flavor, texture, and smell. Slow down by taking small bites, chewing slowly, and putting your fork down between bites. Set and achieve physical activity goals People who have lost weight and kept it off typically engage in 60—90 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity most days of the week, while not exceeding calorie needs. This doesn't necessarily mean 60—90 minutes at one time. It might mean 20—30 minutes of physical activity three times a day. For example, take a brisk walk in the morning, at lunch time, and in the evening. Keep yourself accountable Keeping a food diary and monitoring your weight regularly can help you track your progress and spot trends. For example, you might notice that your weight creeps up when you have to work overtime and might be due to visiting the vending machine. Recognizing this tendency can be a signal to try different behaviors, such as packing your own healthful office snacks. External Resources Looking for more? Here are resources outside of Columbia. Expand all Collapse all CDC Website Visit the CDC’s Healthy Weight page to learn how to assess your weight and make lifestyle changes to achieve and maintain a healthy weight. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Read articles and tips about effective weight loss, tips for dining out, the truth about fad diets, and more from the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. National Institutes of Health Evaluate existing weight-loss programs and identify one that is safe, effective, and can support long-term success. Weight Watchers Find a community Weight Watchers group offered near you here. We Can! Engage children with We Can!, a national movement designed to give parents, caregivers and entire communities a way to help children ages 8-13 years old to stay a healthy weight—guidance is provided to help families to eat better, move more, and reduce screen time. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close