Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Breastfeeding Accessing a Lactation Room Accessing a Lactation Room Columbia provides Lactation Rooms to support faculty, staff, and students returning to work, school, or campus. Each room offers a clean, secure, and private space to express breast milk. All lactation rooms are equipped with a table and chair, and lock from the inside; some contain refrigerators and sinks. If a sink is not in the room, there is one close by. If you use a room where a refrigerator is not provided, we recommend bringing a cooler to store your breast milk. Additionally there are Medela hospital-grade breast pumps provided in each room; accessories will need to be provided by each individual user and can be purchased from the Office of Work/Life (details below). Women may access lactation rooms only for the purposes of expressing, storing, and collecting breast milk. Important note: Please review Columbia's COVID-19 Resource Guide for information about returning to campus. Expand all Collapse all Getting Started Request Access Please contact the Office of Work/Life at 212-854-8019 to request access to the campus Lactation Rooms. It is best to do this at least five days in advance of your need of the room. If possible, however, we will do our best to accommodate same and next-day requests. Access is provided either by a key pad code or by card swipe using your CUID. Please note: Access codes are changed periodically to ensure appropriate access and safety. The Office of Work/Life will communicate to all current users about the change in access in advance. Obtain breast pump attachments Each Lactation Room is equipped with a Medela Symphony electric, hospital-grade pump. You will need to bring your own attachments for the pump; these are available in one package (Symphony Double Pumping Kit). You can purchase the double pumping kit for the Medela Symphony through the Office of Work/Life. Please contact us for more information. You can also purchase the kit from these online retailers: Amazon Target Walmart Or visit the Medela website to find a local store. You may want to review the Symphony pump instructions before your first visit. Breastfeeding mothers may bring their own pump to and from the Lactation Room on a daily basis, but will be responsible for securing it against theft or use by others. Note: Breastfeeding equipment is eligible for reimbursement through a flexible spending account. Please read the specific eligibility requirements outlined by the IRS for more information. Plan for storage/cooling Refrigeration/storage is provided in some, but not all, Lactation Rooms, so be prepared to store your breast milk. Columbia is not responsible for the security or integrity of breast milk stored in or outside of the lactation room refrigerator. Expand all Collapse all In the Rooms Equipment and Room Set-up Medela Symphony hospital-grade pumps are provided in each Lactation Room. In order to use the pumps provided in each room, you will need to purchase the necessary attachments. We recommend that you purchase the Medela Symphony Double Pumping Kit. If there are no coolers or refrigerators in the Lactation Room that you plan to use, you may want to bring a cooler with ice to store your milk. Please review the information in the Lactation Room Locations section below to see what is provided in each Lactation Room. Some Lactation Rooms contain more than one pump, so have curtains in place for privacy. In single use spaces, make sure to lock the Lactation Room door from the inside when you are using it so that you will not be bothered while pumping. Cleaning, Sanitation, and Privacy Everyone is expected to clean up after each time in a room, especially when using the on-site pump equipment. This is not only out of respect for the next user, but to prevent contamination and illness transmission. Please allow enough time within a visit to clean the pump equipment of breast milk spills. Each user should allow enough time, within a visit, to clean the pump equipment of breast milk spills and dispose of trash properly. Antibacterial sprays/wipes and paper towels are provided for cleaning. Upon accessing the room, slide the sign to IN USE to alert others that someone is in the room. Slide the sign back to VACANT when you leave the room unoccupied. Please respect the privacy of all lactation room users by knocking prior to typing in the access code for the rooms. Do not prop open the door at any time. Lactation Room Locations Follow the links below for maps and detailed information about lactation rooms on each campus: Morningside Campus Medical Center Campus Manhattanville, Additional Campus Locations, and Other Information Morningside Campus Google Map Location Site Uris Location Second floor Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours Mon-Fri: 7:30 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Sat: 7:30 a.m. - 6:30 p.m. Sun: 7:30 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. Site Butler Library Location Eighth Floor Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom No refrigeration Hours Butler Library Service Hours Site Carman Hall Location First floor Room Details Sink in room No refrigeration Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Site Jerome Greene Hall Location Third floor Room Details Sink in room Refrigeration in room Hours 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. 7 days/week [currently open only to law school affiliates] Site North West Corner Building Location Eighth floor Room Details Sink in room Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week - access available at campus level on the 4th floor Site Mudd Hall Location Sixth floor Room Details Sink in room Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Site School of Social Work Location Third floor Room Details Sink nearby Refrigeration in room Hours Mon: 8:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. Tue-Thurs: 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. Fri: 8:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. Sat: 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. Sun 12:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Closed Sat & Sun in August Site William and June Warren Hall (1125 Amsterdam Ave.) Location Third Floor Room Details Sink nearby Refrigeration in room Hours Mon-Fri: 7:00a.m.-8:00p.m. Sat-Sun: 9:00a.m.-8:00p.m. Access til 10:00p.m. w/CUID Medical Center Campus Google Map Location Site Allan Rosenfield Building, Mailman School of Public Health Location Tenth Floor (street level) Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site Georgian Building Location First Floor Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site Hammer Health Science Building Location LL2 Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site Irving Cancer Research Center Location Third Floor Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours 8:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. 5 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site Presbyterian Hospital Building Location 17th Floor Room Details Sink in nearby bathroom Refrigeration in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site The School of Nursing Location Fifth Floor Room Details Sink and refrigerator in room Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status Open with access request Site Towers 1 Location Lobby Room Details Mamava Lactation Pod: Pump is not provided Hours 24 hour access 7 days/week Building Status TBD New York Presbyterian Hospital maintains lactation spaces in several additional locations. Harkness Pavilion, 2nd Floor: Mamava pods are available for use with codes posted on the doors. Millstein Building, 5th Floor: Lactation Room is available by request. Neurological Institute, 5th Floor: Lactation Room is available by request. To request access to the rooms, visit the NYP employee Infonet or contact Allison Douglas. Manhattanville, Additional Campus Locations, and Other Information Manhattanville Site Jerome L. Greene Building - Zuckerman Institute* Location Multiple Locations Room Details Sink and refrigerator in room or nearby Site Geffen Hall Location SC1 Room Details Sink and refrigerator in room Site Studebaker Location Sixth Floor Room Details Refrigerator in room Sink in nearby bathroom Site The Forum** Location 2nd Floor Room Details Sink in room * Access to this room is limited to building occupants. Please contact The Zuckerman Institute's HR team for access. **For access to this room, please contact The Forum Operations staff. Additional Campus Locations Site Lamont Doherty Campus- Administration Building Location Second floor Room Details Sink in room No refrigeration Hours 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 5 days/week Site The School at Columbia University * Location Second floor Room Details Sink in room No refrigeration Hours 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 5 days/week Site Location Room Details Hours Site Location Room Details Hours * Access to this room is limited to employees at The School. Information About Additional Lactation Room Spaces If you need a Lactation Room in a building south of Morningside Campus including the Columbia Doctors building on W. 51st street, contact the Office of Work/Life and we will work to find you a private room to express milk. Business School-60th St Lactation Room There is a Lactation Room on the building's 10th floor. It is equipped with one Medela Symphony Hospital Grade Pump with a refrigerator and a sink in the room. Campbell Sports Center Lactation Room There is a Lactation Room on the 3rd floor of the Campbell Sports Center at Baker Field Athletic Center, 218th St and Broadway. Women must bring their own pump and cooler for milk storage. Please check in at the reception desk when entering the building. Barnard College Lactation Room Barnard College Human Resources maintains a Lactation Room on the first floor of Milbank. This room is equipped with a breast pump and a refrigerator. There is a sink in a nearby bathroom. Please contact HR for the key pad access code at (212-854-2551) or [email protected] Teachers College Lactation Room There are two Lactation Rooms at Teachers College. Access is provided through the President's Office at Teachers College. Please visit this webpage for more information about the room and how to access. Information For Expectant & New Parents Review these guides to University benefits, programs, and services: For Faculty & Staff For Students Explore Additional Work/Life Programs and Services Back-up Care Early Education and Child Care School and Child Care Search Service Caregiving Resources Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide University Benefits and Policies Human Resources Benefits Parental Leave Policies Flexible Work Arrangements Additional Resources La Leche League of New York New York Lactation Consultant Association Campus Breastfeeding Support Group Questions, Comments, Feedback? Please contact the Office of Work/Life if you have further inquiries, concerns, or suggestions on how to make the lactation rooms as useful and enjoyable as possible. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close