Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Physical Activity Physical Activity Physical Activity Overview Physical activity is any type of activity that gets your body moving. According to federal guidelines, two of the most important kinds of activities are aerobic physical activity and muscle-strengthening activities. Expand all Collapse all Aerobic physical activity Aerobic physical activity or "cardio" gets you breathing harder and your heart beating faster. Traditionally, we think of vigorous-intensity activities like running and swimming, but moderate-intensity activities like brisk walking from the subway stop and bicycling to the store can also count. Muscle-strengthening activities Muscle-strengthening activities, or resistance training, work all the major muscle groups of your body (legs, buttocks, back, chest, abdomen, shoulders, and arms). Examples include working with resistance bands, lifting weights, shoveling snow, and yoga. The most important thing is that they need to be done to a point where it's hard for you to do another repetition without help. Recommended Physical Activity The Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion recommend that adults: ✓ Do any amount of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity and sit less for some health benefits. Some physical activity is better than none. ✓ Do at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity physical activity, or 75 minutes (1 hour and 15 minutes) a week of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity for substantial health benefits. Preferably, aerobic activity should be spread throughout the week. ✓ Engage in more than 300 minutes (5 hours) of moderate-intensity or 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity a week for additional health benefits. ✓ Do muscle-strengthening activities of moderate or greater intensity and that involve all major muscle groups on 2 or more days a week for additional health benefits. Office of Work/Life Resources The Office of Work/Life develops and offers programs and initiatives designed to help you meet the recommended federal physical activity guidelines for aerobic physical activity and muscle-strengthening activity, if able. Expand all Collapse all Walk to Wellness Program Walking is a simple form of physical activity that can be done almost anywhere. With many notable health benefits, walking is also a powerful tool to strengthen relationships and engage with your colleagues, families, and community members. Walk to Wellness: Spring 2022 Get up and get moving this spring with Walk to Wellness! Join us for twice weekly, instructor-led walks where you’ll connect with colleagues, breathe fresh air, and practice stretches together. We’ll stay connect throughout the week on the MoveSpring app, where you can track your steps, chat with fellow walkers, share photos, and more. We can’t wait to walk with you! Instructor-led walks will be held on both the Morningside campus and CUIMC campus. Let’s get stepping, Columbia! Deadline to register is Monday, April 18. Dates and Locations: Morningside Monday and Wednesday, April 18 - May 20 Meet-up: Low Plaza CUIMC Tuesday and Thursday, April 19 - May 26 Meet-up: Barnes and Noble, 711 W. 168th St REGISTER HERE Virtual Full-Body Fitness No weights, bands, or equipment needed! This fitness class requires just your own body weight to strengthen and tone muscles. We practiced full body movements such as squats, lunges, and planks for a challenging, back-to-basics fitness class. Over eight sessions, we focused on form, building strength, and moving with joy. Any and all fitness levels are welcome - modifications offered. Watch the full series in the Well-Being Video Library. Instructor: India Choquette is an ACE certified Personal Trainer and Group Fitness Instructor. She specializes in functional movement--training that supports better quality of life. She has taught physical education and fitness classes at Columbia University for five years, and works with Columbia Women's Swim Team in addition to training others around New York City. Walk to Wellness Walking Routes Bicycle Friendly University The League of American Bicyclists has recognized Columbia University as a Silver Bicycle Friendly University SM for its efforts in supporting bicycling. Bicycling is one of the most healthy, economically-efficient, fun, and environmentally-friendly ways to commute. Ranked among the top forms of exercise to improve cardiovascular fitness, bicycling to work, school, or other destinations as part of one’s regular daily routine can be both a sustainable and time-efficient exercise regimen for achieving adequate aerobic fitness levels, reducing cardiovascular risk, and preventing weight gain. The Office of Work/Life offers free on-campus bicycling workshops to help you improve your bicycling skills and become a confident, safe bicyclist. Workshop offerings include: Bicycle Maintenance 101, Bicycle Commuting 101, Family Cycling 101, and Bicycling Street Skills. To learn more about getting to Columbia by bike and Columbia bicycle services and resources, including bicycling discounts, visit transportation.columbia.edu. To receive updates about bicycle-related activities at Columbia, including group rides and free bike maintenance events, join Columbia's Bicycle Interest Group. Take the Stairs Campaign The Take the Stairs campaign encourages the Columbia community to choose the stairs instead of the elevator as a quick way to add physical activity to your day and save electricity. In fact, stair climbing burns almost 700% more calories when compared to taking the elevator and has been shown to raise good cholesterol and improve cardiovascular health. Through the campaign, we have engaged several departments and schools in fun team challenges that encourage increased stair use. To learn more about the campaign or to discuss scheduling a stair challenge in your building or department, contact the Office of Work/Life . [email protected] Series Combining physical postures, breathing techniques, and meditation or relaxation, yoga is a mind and body practice with historical origins in ancient Indian philosophy. Current research suggests that practicing yoga may reduce pain and stress, lower heart rate and blood pressure, relieve anxiety, depression, and insomnia, and improve overall physical fitness, strength, and flexibility. An initiative of the Office of Work/Life and Columbia Physical Education and Recreation, [email protected] is a challenging yet relaxing yoga experience focused on increasing flexibility, strengthening mind and body, and improving range of motion through postures, breathing exercises, and relaxation/meditation techniques. To learn more or to discuss scheduling a session or series in your building or department, please fill out this brief form. You can also access our yoga video series here. Fitness Discounts Gym Discounts Crunch is a gym that prides themselves on having a judgment-free, empowering environment. Crunch offers all Columbia University faculty, staff and students a discounted rate on all-access or one-club access month-to-month memberships. Enjoy full-service locker rooms after a hard workout and stay motivated on the go with their fitness app! Download this flyer* for additional details and to get a free 5-day guest pass. Contact Randi Zinker for additional questions and enrollment. New York Health & Racquet Club (NYHRC) is a full-service health club with fantastic amenities including over 600 weekly classes; racquetball, basketball and squash courts; state-of-the-art equipment; pools and spa facilities; personal training; babysitting; and much more. NYHRC offers Columbia faculty and staff a discounted membership of $89/month with no initiation fee. A 6-month minimum commitment is required. The membership includes access to all NYHRC club locations and all classes. The membership flyer can be accessed here. Stop by the Work/Life office in the North Gallery (balcony behind the statues) on the 4th floor of Low Library to request a free one-week membership to try the facilities. Enroll online using your Columbia.edu email. For more information, please contact Jensey Cordero, Corporate Wellness Director at (212) 220-0688 or [email protected] New York Sports Club (NYSC, BSC, WSC, PSC) has over 150 locations featuring state-of-the-art cardio equipment, group exercises classes, cross-training programs, and more. Columbia faculty and staff can enroll with a $49.99 annual fee due up front. Membership is month to month, 30 day notice to cancel. To enroll or for more information, contact Melynda Blake or call (646) 553- 3351. Download this 3-day pass to check out NYSC for free. Access to Columbia fitness centers is available on the Morningside and Medical Center campuses. Additional Fitness Discounts Garmin offers wearable technology to support fitness goals. Columbia University employees are eligible for 20% off fitness trackers through Garmin in the following categories: Vivo series, Venu series, Forerunner, Fenix, Instinct, Approach, Index S2, Smart Scale. Visit the group membership website and enter your Columbia University email address and follow email instructions to set up your account. Additional wellness discounts are available to Columbia faculty and staff through Aetna Columbia Dental Plan’s GlobalFit Benefit and Humana Employee Assistance Program Spendless Discount Program Benefit. Columbia has also partnered with local vendors that provide discounts for Columbia affiliates on sales, bike rentals, maintenance, parts and accessories at local bike shops with your Columbia ID. Visit Columbia Transportation for more information. For a comprehensive listing of other discounts, including computers, phones, arts, and travel, visit the Human Resources website. Columbia University Resources Besides our own programs and initiatives, you can also get involved with these other Columbia wellness programs and resources. Expand all Collapse all Fitness Centers on Campus Dodge Fitness Center provides Columbia students, faculty, staff, alumni, and affiliates fitness opportunities and exercise space on the Morningside campus. Memberships are available at a competitive, reduced rate. Visit the Dodge website for information about membership options. NYPH Fitness Center powered by Plus One is exclusively for New York Presbyterian Hospital employees, retirees, Columbia University employees, students, and alumni. The 6,500 square foot, state-of-the-art NYPH Employee Fitness Center is a fun, effective and convenient place to get fit. Membership is $60 per month. Call (212) 305-1800 or email [email protected] for more information. Bard Athletic Center is located in Bard Hall, Columbia University Medical Center. Memberships to this facility are available to Medical Center students, faculty, staff, post-doctoral research fellows, alumni, and employees of Presbyterian Hospital, NYS Psychiatric Institute, and Audubon Research Park. All eligible employees and their spouse/domestic partner may gain access to the facility and equipment by purchasing either Trip Tickets or an Annual Membership Package. Services via Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Employee Assistance Program The EAP is a network of services, including short-term counseling and life coaching, to help faculty, staff, and their household members cope with everyday issues including stress, relationships, depression, and addiction. Humana's professional counselors are available 24 hours, 7 days a week at 888-673-1153. Gym and Wellness Discounts are available for eligible employees through Humana Employee Assistance Program Spendless Discount Program Benefit. Gym & Wellness Discounts via Aetna Columbia Dental Plan Columbia Dental Plan Gym and Wellness Discounts are available for eligible employees through Aetna Columbia Dental Plan’s GlobalFit Benefit. Wellness Coaching via Columbia Medical Plan Wellness Coaching is a healthy lifestyle program available to Columbia University medical plan participants and dependents at no additional cost. Work with a wellness coach telephonically with additional web-based support to help you eat better, move more, and lose weight. To learn more or to enroll, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357 or visit this website. RALLY Digital Health Experience RALLY is an engaging digital health experience that starts with a quick health survey to measure your overall health and then recommends simple activities designed to help improve your diet, fitness, and mood and can support weight loss. Rally is available through www.myuhc.com or visit www.columbia.werally.com. For more information or to learn if you are eligible, call United Healthcare at 800-232-9357. External Resources Looking for more? Here are resources outside of Columbia. Expand all Collapse all Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans Learn more about the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans. CDC Website Visit the CDC’s website for further information about what counts or does not count as physical activity. Every Body Walk! Collaborative Join the Every Body Walk! Collaborative to spread the message that walking 30 minutes a day, five days a week really can improve your overall health and prevent disease. Move It Monday Program Get inspired with Move it Monday simple workouts, tips, and inspiration to help you incorporate physical activity into your weekly routine. Shape Up NYC Program Access Shape Up NYC’s free, drop-in fitness program with locations across the five boroughs. Tom Schrank (School of Professional Studies) after finishing the NYC Marathon. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close