Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Spring 2022: A message to the Columbia University Community Spring 2022: A message to the Columbia University Community From Amy Rabinowitz, Director, Office of Work/Life Spring 2022 Workshops & Programs Join us this spring and grow your community! When pondering the theme for this winter into spring message, I was finding it difficult to settle on something. It has been feeling like we are still awash with challenges, not aided by the cold, icy, snowy weather we’ve been experiencing. (I’m a summer-loving person myself!) Our fall optimism about the dissipation of COVID retreated as we confronted Omicron but now maybe, just maybe, that optimism and hard work will bring us a brighter spring. So, the theme of this page is transitions. Looking ahead, the Office of Work/Life anticipates that everyone is facing their own set of transitions—maybe you’re returning some additional days to campus or settling back into routines; maybe you’re thinking about growing your family with a new member or a new pet; your child may have successfully settled into a new school or might be getting ready to graduate; an older loved one may need some extra attention; or maybe you’re ready to buy a new home. Whatever stage you’re in, whatever transition you’re anticipating, we urge you to be sure to look after your own well-being as you move ahead. Hoping that this spring we might be able to bring colleagues together in-person for a few workshops, we’re transitioning to a new format and will first communicate programs for February and March, and then for later spring into early summer. We’ll again emphasize community in our offerings, whether they be virtual or on-site. It is with our Columbia community that together, we have proven we can handle any transition. We ask you again to treat each other with empathy and grace as we take more steps ahead. So, check out our new options and our ‘rewind’ options, and join us in looking forward. Programs and Resources Columbia Parent Connection Komae, a cooperative child care app Resources for Parents During COVID-19 School and Child Care Search Service Housing Information and Referral Service Faculty Spouse/Partner Dual Career Service Back-up Care Caregiving Programs and Resources from Bright Horizons Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close