Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Housing & Relocation Affordable Housing Affordable Housing The following information and resources can help address affordability challenges of living in New York City for both renters and homeowners. Expand all Collapse all General Information for Tenants and Homeowners New York City New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development Resources and information for developers, homebuyers, homeowners, housing education courses, residential building owners, residential tenants, apartment lotteries (both to rent and buy), Section 8, and Mitchell-Lama are provided. There is the ability to sign-up for HPD email updates as well. Homebase: A city-wide program designed to help families and individuals overcome immediate housing problems that could result in becoming homeless, and to develop a plan for long-term housing stability. Home First Down Payment Assistance Program: Many New Yorkers want to buy a home but don't have enough money saved for their down payment and closing costs. The Home First Down Payment Assistance Program provides qualified homebuyers with up to 6% of a home's purchase price toward the down payment or closing costs on a 1-4 family home, a condominium, or a cooperative in one of the five boroughs of New York City. Check the web site for qualification requirements. Mitchell-Lama: The Mitchell-Lama program was enacted by the State in the mid-1950’s as a way to promote and facilitate the construction of affordable rental and cooperative housing throughout New York State. Each Mitchell-Lama development requires you to send a letter and application to the managing agent. Most buildings have waiting lists and often the lists are closed, but occasionally one opens up. Waiting lists are typically chronological, though occasionally veterans and people with disabilities get priority. NYC Housing Connect: The NYC Housing Connect website lists projects currently accepting tenants and purchasers for the apartment lotteries and 80/20 programs. The deadlines and income caps are listed, which change with each project, as well as an on-line form to submit. The process can take anywhere from two to ten months before you hear back. If you're rejected, the site will let you know how to appeal or redirect you to other developments. New York City Affordable Housing Resource Center: The New York City Affordable Housing Resource Center website provides information on all aspects of New York City housing, including renting an apartment, buying a home, and apartment maintenance issues. New York City Freeze Your Rent Program: The NYC Rent Freeze Program, which includes the Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemption (SCRIE) Program and the Disability Rent Increase Exemption (DRIE) Program, helps those eligible stay in affordable housing by freezing their rent. New York City Housing Authority: The New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) provides decent and affordable housing in a safe and secure living environment for low and moderate-income residents throughout the five boroughs. NYCHA also administers a citywide Section 8 Leased Housing Program in rental apartments. New York City Rent Guidelines Board: NYCRGB is mandated to establish rent adjustments for the approximately one million dwelling units subject to the Rent Stabilization Law in New York City. The site provides information on the housing market including resources for finding apartments, market data, question and answer forum, and guidelines for rent-stabilized apartments. New York State The State of New York Mortgage Agency: SONYMA provides safe, low-interest fixed-rate mortgages, down payment assistance and other programs specifically designed to help low- and moderate-income families become homeowners. There are several different programs which enable first-time homebuyers, military veterans, and low-income families to purchase homes. UHAB/Urban Homesteading Assistance Board UHAB provides home ownership information as well as information and listings on existing and newly-converted cooperative HDFC buildings. U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) FHA loans have been helping people become homeowners since 1934. The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) – which is part of HUD – insures loans, so your lender can offer you a better deal and therefore have low down payments, low closing costs, and easy credit qualifying. Your down payment can be as low as 3.5% of the purchase price, and most of your closing costs and fees can be included in the loan. Usually only available on 1-4 unit properties, and the property must be FHA-approved. Some condominiums are approved and can be searched on this webpage. HUD provides a searchable, on-line database for affordable housing. HUD-subsidized Single and Multifamily Housing Programs HUD's Single Family programs include mortgage insurance on loans to purchase new or existing homes, condominiums, manufactured housing, houses needing rehabilitation, and for reverse equity mortgages to elderly homeowners. HUD's Multifamily programs provide mortgage insurance to HUD-approved lenders to facilitate the construction, substantial rehabilitation, purchase and refinancing of multifamily housing projects and healthcare facilities. HUD - New York State- specific housing information pertaining to NYS. Non-Profit Housing Development and Community Rental Assistance in NYC The Actors Fund The Actors Fund offer seminars in various locations in New York City to educate members of the performing arts and entertainment community about affordable housing options. Asian Americans For Equality (AAFE) Community Development Fund AAFE CDF is a subsidiary of Asian Americans for Equality, a community based, not-for-profit organization established in 1974, committed to community service and empowerment targeting immigrants, low-income families and minorities throughout New York City. Breaking Ground Breaking Ground’s success in ending homelessness is built on a housing model that targets individuals and families who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. Their affordable housing units are located in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Bronx, Queens and Connecticut. The Coalition for the Homeless The Coalition for the Homeless offers a variety of housing programs, including FHEPS, which helps families and individuals stay in their current home. Goddard Riverside These units are for formerly homeless single adults or adults at high risk of homelessness because of their age, income or disability. There are also units for senior citizens and the mobility-impaired. Tenants must be capable of living independently. Habitat for Humanity – New York City Habitat for Humanity-NYC builds homes in all five boroughs for ownership by families and individuals in need. Lantern Community Services Lantern Community Services has several affordable housing projects in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and the Bronx. University Settlement Society of NY Project Home Project Home is a unique, comprehensive case management program helping formerly homeless and at-risk residents of the Lower East Side and Chinatown maintain their permanent housing, personal and financial stability, and family safety. The Project's strength lies in its ability to help almost anyone within the community who walks through the door, with direct service or supported referrals. Columbia University Office of Work/Life Housing Information and Referral Service [email protected] www.worklife.columbia.edu Disclaimer: The content in this document is provided for informational purposes only. It is not intended to provide legal advice and should not substitute for the advice of an experienced real estate attorney. Also, the links and references to web sites and organizations are provided for informational purposes only. Columbia University does not endorse any specific organization or web site, or real estate professional and does not suggest that one source should be utilized to the exclusion of another. Quick Links Housing Information and Referral Service Program Flyer Columbia University Faculty Housing Policy Columbia Residential Moving Guide Rental Guide Visitor Housing Related Links Columbia Preferred Moving and Storage Vendors Parking - Morningside & Manhattanville Parking - CUIMC Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close