Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Mental & Emotional Well-being Mental & Emotional Well-being Get Support Now Trauma Resources from the EAP Cope Columbia Counseling Services Don't Go It Alone Essential to overall health, positive mental and emotional well-being allows individuals to realize their full potential, manage stresses of life, work productively, and make meaningful contributions to their communities. National Prevention Strategy Recommendations The National Prevention Strategy outlines the following mental and emotional well-being recommendations: ✓ Promote early identification of mental health needs and access to quality services. ✓ Facilitate social connectedness and community engagement across the lifespan. ✓ Provide individuals and families with the support necessary to maintain positive mental well-being. ✓ Promote positive early childhood development, including positive parenting and violence-free homes. As an individual, maintain positive mental and emotional well-being by getting professional help if you need it, connecting with others, volunteering, staying physically active, eating nutritiously, drinking enough water, utilizing relaxation techniques, and getting enough sleep. Office of Work/Life Resources The Office of Work/Life develops and offers programs and initiatives designed to promote positive mental and emotional health, build social connectedness, and support you in learning and adopting relaxation and stress management techniques. Expand all Collapse all Mindfulness Programs Take a Break: Stretch and Reset Take a break and reset mid-day with the University’s Ergonomist, Kevin Myers. Each virtual session starts with stretches aimed to lengthen and restore muscles, followed by guided imagery meditation to relax the mind and body. After participating, you can continue on with refreshed muscles and a new perspective as you take on the day. Dates: Wednesdays, February 9 - April 20, 2022 Instructor: Kevin Myers, MS, AEP, ATC, is a Certified Athletic Trainer who holds a Master of Science in Ergonomics and Biomechanics from New York University. Kevin takes a holistic approach to workplace wellness by connecting the worker’s mind, body, and surrounding environment to enhance overall health and well-being. Attire: Athletic attire not required Zoom link will be sent to registrants prior to the event. REGISTER Mindfulness Training for Stress Reduction Through this seven-week mindfulness training course, adapted to the university setting from the Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction Program developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn, participants will observe how stress unfolds in their lives, their responses to it, and how mindfulness practice can ameliorate it. Participants will learn and practice a variety of stress reduction techniques, including mindful movement incorporating gentle yoga postures. Alongside the meditation practice, the classes incorporate group discussions centering on the experiences working with mindfulness meditation practices. This program is limited to Columbia faculty and staff. Program is currently on hold. Guided Meditation Breath Centering Space Card Guided Mindfulness Meditation Audio [email protected] Learn about the [email protected] initiative. Gym & Wellness Discounts Learn about the Gym and Wellness discounts available to employees. Columbia University Resources Besides our own programs and initiatives, you can also access these other Columbia programs and resources. Expand all Collapse all Access Counseling, Life Coaching, & More The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a free, confidential service available to faculty, researchers, administrators, and staff who are eligible to receive medical benefits from Columbia. All services are provided by Humana at no cost to you or your family. Humana's counselors are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 888-673-1153. For more information and to access online resources, visit the Humana website (username: columbia; password: eap). Counseling Access free, confidential 24-7 short-term counseling (by phone) through Columbia’s Employee Assistance Program at: 888-673-1153. Life Coaching LifeCoach, a free, telephonic, personalized coaching experience available to you and your household members. When you sign up for the experience, you are paired with a coach who mentors you and can help you identify and work towards achieving your goals. LifeCoach is available to you and your household members at no cost. To get started call the LifeCoach program at 855-290-2655. Convenience Services Whether you have a quick question or need a local resource, the Employee Assistance Program can discuss options, perform a custom search, and give you a list of referrals along with relevant articles, checklists, and other resources to help you meet your unique needs. COVID-19 Support CopeColumbia The COVID-19 pandemic represents an unprecedented and uniquely trying time for our community, particularly for providers on the front lines, but including all faculty and staff at the medical center. In response, the Department of Psychiatry has partnered with ColumbiaDoctors and NewYork-Presbyterian in developing CopeColumbia, which provides information and resources for the CUIMC community, including counseling sessions, peer support groups, guided meditations, suggested reading, and other resources for managing stress, fear and anxiety. Find In-network Providers Columbia's health plan with United Health Care provides access to in-network mental/behavioral health providers. Columbia Doctors psychiatrists and therapists provide compassionate, evidence-based mental health care tailored to individual goals. Services include: Comprehensive evaluations Medication management (psychopharmacology) Individual therapy Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) Group therapy Couples and family therapy Mindfulness Neuropsychological testing Exploratory or psychodynamic therapy Columbia Doctors Nurse Practitioner Group provides mental and behavioral services at the Medical Center campus (Washington Heights location: 526 West 168th Street). To make an appointment, call 212-326-5705. Connect Through Virtual Visits United Health Care plans include access to virtual visits for mental/emotional health with AmWell and Doctors on Demand. Counseling During International Travel The International SOS (ISOS) program provides support services for Columbia faculty, staff, and students traveling abroad on University-related business. This support includes access to up to five counseling sessions per trip. Visit the website to register and learn more. Columbia University’s Ombuds Office Columbia University’s Ombuds Office offers a confidential place to discuss workplace issues, academic concerns, issues relating to administrative paperwork and process, explanation and interpretation of policies and procedures, and many other issues or concerns. If you should need a place to discuss confidential workplace issues, contact Columbia’s Ombuds Office (Medical Center, 154 Haven Avenue, Room 412) at 212-304-7026. External Resources Looking for more? Here are resources outside of Columbia. Expand all Collapse all NYC Well Learn more about mental health disorders, a range of mental health topics, and the latest mental health research from the National Institute of Mental Health. Contact NYC’s confidential and free mental health service line, NYC Well: 1-888-NYC-WELL, Press 2. Mental Health First Aid Mental Health First Aid is an evidence-based public education program that teaches people how to respond to individuals who are experiencing one or more acute mental health crises (such as suicidal thoughts or behavior, an acute stress reaction, panic attacks, or acute psychotic behavior) or are in the early stages of one or more chronic mental health problems (such as depressive, anxiety, or psychotic disorders, which may occur with substance abuse). Destress Monday Get inspired, access meditation audio, and receive free resources from Destress Monday. Mindful Harlem Join in on a practice with Mindful Harlem, a non-profit wellness and meditation center offering online mindfulness, yoga, and wellness practices to all. Mindfulness Meditation New York Collaborative Find additional Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction classes in New York City through the Mindfulness Meditation New York Collaborative. Center for Mindfulness Visit the UMass Medical School's Center for Mindfulness for a wealth of resources, including online classes. Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close