Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Breastfeeding Additional Breastfeeding Resources & Discounts Additional Breastfeeding Resources & Discounts The following page contains information about local, state, and national resources. Please visit each organization’s website for more detailed information. Columbia University has no affiliation with these organizations; the links below are for information purposes only. Expand all Collapse all Breastfeeding in the Community JCC Manhattan: The JCC Manhattan offers a wide variety of programs for parents and expectant parents, including a breastfeeding support group led by a certified lactation consultant. Additional programs topics include CPR, caring for a newborn, how to adopt, and cooking healthy foods. Please visit the website for a complete listing of programs, workshops, and support groups. La Leche League: An international, nonprofit, nonsectarian organization dedicated to providing education, information, support, and encouragement to women who want to breastfeed. All breastfeeding mothers and pregnant women interested in breastfeeding are welcome to come to the series of informal discussion meetings or call the Leaders for breastfeeding help. In addition to the series meetings, the League offers special meetings for working mothers, and mothers of twins, and toddlers. Children of all ages are welcome. Medela Recyles: Allows mothers to recycle their Medela electric pumps. Each pump received through Medela Recycles supports the donation of new hospital-grade, multi-use breast pumps and supplies to Ronald McDonald House Charities® (RMHC®). New York Lactation Consultant Association: The New York Lactation Consultant Association provides a searchable database of breastfeeding support groups and individual lactation consultants in the New York area. The Upper Breast Side: The Upper Breast Side sells breast pumps, pump accessories, nursing clothing, nursing bras, and guide books. It also has pumps available for rent. You can also come in to test pumps, get a consultation, and receive instructions on how to use the equipment. Yummy Mummy: This store on the Upper East Side sells breast pumps, accessories, clothing, and more. It also offers breastfeeding information, classes, and support groups, including a breastfeeding group led by a registered lactation consultant. 92nd Street Y-First Steps Program: First Steps is a New York City based, comprehensive program for parents to be, including breastfeeding information and support. This organization offers a breastfeeding support group to meet with other parents, babies and a lactation specialist. Breastfeeding workshops are also offered by 92Y. Please visit the 92Y website for details about cost, meeting times, and locations. Childbirth & Parenting Resources American Academy of Pediatrics: Information and recommendations about breastfeeding, advocacy materials, and more. American College of Nurse-Midwives: The professional association which represents certified midwives and nurse-midwives in the United States. American Pregnancy Association: Information on becoming pregnant, common questions surrounding pregnancy, labor and delivery, childbirth education, infertility, and more. Association for Safe Alternatives in Childbirth (ASAC): created to encourage alternatives to the technological approach in the hospital, at home, in a birthing centre and with professional care givers of their choice. Breastfeeding Bill of Rights: Available for print in several languages through the New York State Department of Health Bump.com: provides first-time parents with information on a range of fertility, pregnancy, and parenting issues. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: The CDC breastfeeding recommendations site has information on the optimal temperature for storing breast milk, travel guides, and nutrition/vaccination information. "Childbirth." JAMA Patient Page: Definitions of common terms relating to pregnancy, delivery and anesthesia. Childbirth and Post-partum Professional Association (CAPPA): comprehensive pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum organization of those caring for women before, during, and after birth through education and support. Childbirth Connection: a not-for-profit organization that has worked to improve maternity care for mothers, babies and families since 1918. Promotes "safe, effective, and satisfying evidence-based maternity care" to help you maintain the health of you and your baby. Childbirth Education Association of Metropolitan New York: a nonprofit organization of childbirth professionals and consumer advocates committed to family-centered maternity care. Childbirth.Org: Pregnancy and childbirth education. Includes a page on "Locating Childbirth Educators and Doulas" by their type of training (e.g., Lamaze, Bradley, etc.) DONA International: an international doula association which offers certification programs, workshops, and informational resources. Long Island Doula Association: Local association of women who provide emotional support, physical comfort, and advocacy during labor. Medline Plus "Childbirth": definition of terms and explanation of the process. NYC Doula Service: a New York City-based doula service organization, operating in the NY metropolitan area. United Health Care Healthy Pregnancy Program: The United Health Care Healthy Pregnancy Program (HPP) is a maternity wellness program available to Columbia employees enrolled in a UHC insurance plan. Providing members with personalized support and education throughout pregnancy, UHC HPP benefits include 24-hour access to obstetrics nurses, clinical assessment of individual needs and maternal risks, and pregnancy and childbirth educational materials and resources. To enroll, call a nurse advocate at 1-800-232-9357 or for more information visit here. Your Guide to Breastfeeding: This publication is published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Women's Health. It offers breastfeeding information, advice, tips and more. WIC Program – Woman, Infants, Children: The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) offers nutrition education, breastfeeding support, referrals and a variety of nutritious foods to low-income pregnant, breastfeeding or postpartum women, infants and children up to age five. Some of their support services include breastfeeding peer counselors, information, tips/advice on breastfeeding, and access to breast pumps. Visit the New York State Department of Health website for more information on eligibility for the WIC Program. Discounts for Child Care and Prenatal Classes Bright Horizons Care Advantage® This program offers additional family support through a comprehensive online care database for ongoing child and adult care, evening, weekend, and pet care needs. Employees are responsible for costs related to care for these new services: Free, unlimited access to regular, non-urgent child and adult care, pet care, and housekeeping services through Sittercity’sonline caregiver database, free basic background checks, and free access to the site Preferred enrollment at select Bright Horizons centers nationwide – includes registration fee credit Tuition discounts at partner centers – up to 10% for children ages 2-12 Discounted tutoring and test prep for students of all ages available Free general elder care planning support through Years Ahead online assessment tool Visit this website for access and more information. 92nd Street Y Parenting Center offers a 10% discount on Parenting Center classes and drop-ins to Columbia faculty, staff, and students. The Parenting Center offers a number of fun parent/child classes and resources for families, including Lamaze classes, new parent support groups, breastfeeding consultations with a certified lactation consultant and more. A 10% discount is available with a Columbia University ID. The offer can be redeemed by phone at 212.415.5500 and at the box office, located at 1395 Lexington Avenue at 92nd Street. For drop-in classes, the ID can be presented when coming to the class (no advance registration is required). Note: 2s Together and 3s Together Programs are not included. The Learning Experience Child Care Centers offer a discount to Columbia University families at locations across the country. Columbia University families are eligible to receive a 10% discount, plus waived extended care fees. If your child is currently enrolled at The Learning Experience®, please contact Sandy Sandquist at (561) 886-6400 ext. 245 so that you and the other Columbia families can avail yourself of the discount. For information on The Learning Experience®, including discounted rate information or participating centers, please call Sandy Sandquist at (561) 886-6400 ext. 245 or Jessica Zacot at (561) 886-6400 ext. 250. You can also visit The Learning Experience® nearest you or their website. Stork and Cradle offers a 15% discount to Columbia employees for child birth classes. When registering for classes, use the discount code: Columbia. Additional classes offered by Stork and Cradle include Lamaze, breastfeeding, baby care, and infant CPR. Visit their website for more information. Information For Expectant & New Parents Review these guides to University benefits, programs, and services: For Faculty & Staff For Students Explore Additional Work/Life Programs and Services Back-up Care Early Education and Child Care School and Child Care Search Service Caregiving Resources Nourishing Mom and Baby Guide University Benefits and Policies Human Resources Benefits Parental Leave Policies Flexible Work Arrangements Additional Resources La Leche League of New York New York Lactation Consultant Association Campus Breastfeeding Support Group Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close