Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Well-Being Sleep Health Sleep Health More than one-quarter of the U.S. population report occasionally not getting enough sleep, while nearly 10% experience chronic insomnia. The National Institutes of Health estimates that sleep-related problems affect 50 to 70 million Americans of all ages and socioeconomic classes. Getting enough sleep refers to the amount of sleep you need to not feel sleepy the next day. If sleepiness interferes with or makes it difficult to do your daily activities, you probably need more sleep. Sufficient sleep is a vital sign of good health. Sleep has many positive effects on health and well-being, but many people report getting insufficient sleep each night. It’s necessary to develop good sleep habits in order to stay healthy and help your body and mind to rest and recharge. Here’s why from A!sleep. Sleep Benefits ✓ Promotes memory consolidation ✓ Affects processing speed ✓ Makes you feel refreshed and ready for work ✓ Boosts immune health ✓ Helps maintain energy balance Recommended Sleep Most adults need 7-9 hours of good quality sleep on a regular schedule each night. Children need even more sleep than adults. Tips to Improve Sleep Quality Adopted from “A Good Night’s Sleep: Stress, Insomnia, and Work Productivity” (WELCOA 2014) Expand all Collapse all 1 Keep a Regular Sleep Cycle Research reveals that the body operates on a 24+ hour clock. This body clock is called circadian rhythms. For optimal functioning of mind and body, it is best to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day (including weekends). Even if you cannot fall asleep at an exact time, you should go to bed, and turn out the lights at the same time each night. 2 Create an Ideal Sleep Ambiance Considering the fact that you spend up to 1/3 of each 24 hour period in this state, one might think that this aspect would deserve more attention. The fact is that many of us take our sleep ambiance for granted or ignore it all together. Careful consideration should be given to the following factors: darkness, a cool room temperature, minimal noise, no distractions, and the utmost comfort with sleep surface (e.g., down pillows, down comforter, high thread count sheets, great mattress, etc.). 3 Get Out and Exercise Sleep experts and exercise physiologists both agree that physical activity, primarily cardiovascular exercise, promotes quality sleep. Cardiovascular exercise is known for flushing the stress hormones that are produced from non-physical stress out of the body (in essence, using them for their intended purpose and then excreting the byproducts.) If you have problems sleeping, try avoiding late-night exercising. 4 Decrease Your Caffeine Consumption There is a substance in caffeine that triggers the release of epinephrine and nor-epinephrine, neurotransmitters that increase heart rate and blood pressure. In effect, caffeine stimulates the stress response. You do not want to do this in the evening hours before you go to bed. If you have problems sleeping, consider consuming no caffeine (including chocolate) after 4:00 p.m. to give your body three to four hours to detox from this stimulant. Learn the caffeine content of your favorite drink. 5 Avoid Alcohol and Nicotine Contrary to caffeine, alcohol is a depressant and can make you feel drowsy and even make it easier to fall asleep. However, sleep is interrupted more often and is of a lower quality after consuming alcohol because of its effects on the hormones that influence our sleep-wake cycle. Also, the effects of alcohol are graded: the more you drink, the worse you'll sleep. Additionally, alcohol will have a stronger effect on someone who is fatigued compared with someone who is well-rested. To get a good night's sleep, avoid alcohol within 2-4 hours before going to sleep. For more information about how alcohol affects sleep, visit the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse & Alcoholism website. Nicotine is a central nervous system stimulant. Yet another good reason to quit smoking. Smokers tend to have poorer quality sleep and wake up more frequently during the night due to withdrawal symptoms. 6 Move the TV (and all i-electronics) Out of the Bedroom Many people fall asleep at night with The Late Show. While these and other late night shows are certainly entertaining at times, the television in the bedroom often tops the list of sleep robbers. Computers, cell phones, and other digital devices also qualify as sleep robbers. If you use your phone as an alarm, try changing that habit. Consider investing in a sunrise alarm clock. The peaceful mimicry of the rising sun promotes a calm awakening experience followed by delightful chirping birds. 7 Clear Your Late Night Mind Countless people who say they have a problem sleeping at night say their mind is racing with thoughts they cannot control: worry, anxiety, frustrations, details, work schedules, responsibilities, etc. All of these are examples of stress. Keeping a pad of paper by your bed to write down thoughts that are stealing your attention is one way to calm your mind. Another is to write down your plans for the next day before you climb into bed so that your time in bed is for sleep, not organizing and delegating. For some people reading works, and for others doing some hobby or activity totally unrelated to your career or occupation works. One thing is certain: not clearing your mind of random thoughts, work-related responsibilities, or unresolved issues will only steal precious time away from Rapid Eye Movement (REM). 8 Avoid Eating Before Bed With diminished evening light, the body metabolism begins to slow down including a slight decrease in body temperature, a factor necessary for quality sleep. Eating right before bed not only throws off the body’s internal clock, but also the digestion process requires energy and this energy creates body heat rather than decreasing it. Acid reflux can also be a potential problem. While eating may serve as a way to calm emotions, eating close to bedtime interferes with the serotonin-melatonin balance. Columbia University Resources Expand all Collapse all A!Sleep Alice! Health Promotion, a program of Columbia Health, provides resources for staff, faculty, and students to get a better night’s rest through the A!Sleep website. Get tips on healthy sleep habits and take a free, personalized sleep assessment (UNI required) to receive instant, tailored feedback on improving your sleep behaviors. External Resources Looking for more? Here are some resources outside of Columbia Expand all Collapse all National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Learn more about why sleep is important. Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Read about common sleep disorders. National Center on Sleep Disorders Research Test your sleep IQ. Sleep Tips Get sleep tips if you work the night shift Sleeping well in the digital age Additional Resources Employee Assistance Program (EAP) The EAP is a free, confidential service providing counseling, adult/elder care research and referral, life coaching, and more. Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about University benefits and policies related to your work/life needs. Well-Being in CU Human Resources Learn about how CUHR supports the well-being of Columbia faculty and staff. Meditation Card (PDF) Use this resource to guide you through a brief meditation exercise. Breastfeeding Support Program This program includes access to campus lactation rooms, breastfeeding classes, and information/resources. Flexible Work Arrangements Columbia's Flexible Work Arrangements policy allows for telecommuting, compressed work schedules, and nine, ten, and eleven month appointments, subject to departmental approval. Student Health and Wellness Resources Visit Columbia Health or CUIMC Student Health to access student resources. Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close