Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Housing and Relocation Housing and Relocation Housing & Relocation Services Housing Information & Referral Service Consultations on renting or purchasing apartments and homes within commuting distance of Columbia campuses. Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Connects Columbia employees with mortgage lenders who can assist with refinancing, debt consolidation, and home purchasing. Dual Career Service Assists accompanying spouse/partner with non-academic job searches. Relocation Support finding child care, schools, elder care, housing, and employment opportunities for spouse/partner. I Want to Learn About Green Housing Information & resources to help make your home green. Temporary Housing & Hotels A list of temporary housing options on campus. Renting in and Around NYC Information to help plan your move and minimize stress. Moving Information to help you plan your move. Stay Up to Date RE-NYC, our monthly housing newsletter, includes the latest news on housing and relocation services offered by the University and tips on finding housing and other services. The newsletter is for Columbia community only. If you are a recruit and want access, please email [email protected]. To access previous issues of RE-NYC, please log into our archive page. Subscribe Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close