Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Child Care & Schooling Early Intervention & Special Education Early Intervention & Special Education Please see below for more information on: Early Intervention (infancy - age 3 years) The Center for Preschool Special Education (ages 3 - 5 years) Transitioning to Kindergarten Special Education (ages 5 - 21 years) Note: Specifics on this page refer to New York State, however, these services are available nation-wide. Please see your local department of education for more information. Early Intervention Services (birth to age 3) Early Intervention (EI) is: A set of public special education services designed to meet the needs of infants, toddlers and preschoolers. A guarantee that your child with a disability or developmental delay will receive appropriate services from infancy through their entire schooling career. If you are concerned about your child's development, the Early Intervention Program can provide an evaluation of your child at no cost to you. The evaluation will assess your child's strengths and needs, and determine if your child is eligible for the Program. Expand all Collapse all EI in More Detail EI Eligibility To be eligible for services, children must: Be under 3 years of age Have a confirmed disability or established developmental delay, in one or more of the following areas of development Physical Cognitive Communication Social-Emotional Adaptive Children who are over 2 years 11 months should be referred to the Committee for Preschool Special Education (CPSE). EI Services Family education and counseling, home visits, and parent support groups Special instruction Speech pathology and audiology Occupational therapy Physical therapy Psychological services Service coordination Nursing services Nutrition services Social work services Vision services Assistive technology devices and services EI Process The EI process: Begins with a referral from a parent, doctor, social worker, teacher, or caretaker. Requires parental permission and informed consent for each step in the evaluation and for the provision of services. Guarantees you the right to due process under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEIA). Getting a Referral to the EI Program Call 311 and say that you want to refer a child to the Early Intervention Program or complete a referral form and fax to the Early Intervention Program regional office in the child's borough of residence: Bronx (718-410-4504) Brooklyn (718-722-2998) Manhattan (212-436-0902) Queens (718-291-1981) Staten Island (718-568-2341) Paying for EI Services There is no direct cost to families for Early Intervention. The program uses a child's insurance (if available) to help pay for services. This will not affect or reduce a family's insurance benefits. Center for Preschool Special Education (CPSE) (ages 3 - 5) Preschool Special Education is: The set of public services provided to children between the ages of 3 and 5 years. A continuation of the Early Intervention services, if your child is already receiving them. In that case, providers from your child's early intervention team would help you transition from EI to CPSE service providers. Expand all Collapse all CPSE in More Detail CPSE Process The Center for Preschool Special Education (CPSE): Begins when you, your pediatrician, or day care provider is concerned about your child's development. Requires a written referral to your school district's Committee on Preschool Special Education. List of Committees on Preschool Education, by district May lead to your child receiving an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) to meet your child's needs. Requires parental permission and informed consent for each step in the evaluation and for the provision of services. Guarantees you the right to due process under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act (IDEIA). Resources Outline of the Referral Process Sample Referral Letters Transitioning to Kindergarten CPSE services end when your child turns five years of age, or enters Kindergarten. Services for elementary school children in need of special education supports are provided by the Committee on Special Education (SCE) of the NYC Department of Education. ✓ If your child is already receiving services through CPSE, these services may continue or be adapted as part of your child's elementary school education. The providers from your child's CPSE team will help you transition from CPSE to CSE service providers. ✓ If your child has NOT received CPSE services, but you feel that s/he would benefit from special education supports, you need to make a written referral to your district Committee on Special Education. Special Education (ages 5 - 21 years) Special education is quality education for students who are not well served by the conventional school system. These schools provide appropriate educational opportunities and challenges to meet the specific needs of their student population. In a supportive environment, students develop academic strategies and skills to reach their potential as confident and successful individuals and learners. Special education programs require an Individualized Education Program (IEP) or Psycho-Educational Evaluation as part of the admissions application. Expand all Collapse all Special Ed in More Detail What to Consider When Looking at Schools Families who have children with special needs should feel the philosophy of the school will provide an environment in which their children will thrive. Strong support from the director(s), faculty, and support teams should be evident, as well as open and direct communication. Additional questions to ask when considering a school: What training and experience do providers have? What method of teaching is being used at the school? What is the teacher-to-student ratio? How are transitions for parents and students handled? Will my child "fit in" with other students attending? Is the provider's tone positive? How is discipline handled? Are there at-home visits? Are there educational classes for parents or parent groups? Who handles medication, if necessary? What is the cost to a parent? Is there financial aid? Is this site a NYC approved site for funding? Where do children go after leaving this school site? Does the school provide counseling for future school placement? How many months of the year is this program? Is busing provided? General Admissions Information Special education programs require an Individualized Education Program (IEP) or Psycho-Educational Evaluation as part of the admissions application. A recent evaluation by qualified professionals not only provides a detailed description of the child’s disability, but also makes specific recommendations about approaches, interventions, strategies, and methodologies that would benefit the child. Independent Schools Independent schools for students with special needs tend to focus on serving specific needs. It is important to review the school's website to confirm that your child's learning issues will be addressed. Financial Aid/Affordability Note that independent special education schools tend to have a very high tuition due to the wide range of services offered within the school day as well as a very small teacher-to-student ratio. Individual school websites will explain the school's financial aid policy and procedures. If the Committee on Special Education (CSE) team agrees with the parents that there is not an appropriate public school placement for a child, there are different ways by which the DOE will pay for a private school special education placement. Public & Charter Schools Public School There is a range of special education options that can be recommended in the public school system. District 75 is the division of the NYC Department of Education that seeks to provide appropriate standards-based educational programs with related support services to students with moderate to severe learning challenges. If the Committee on Special Education (CSE) team agrees with the parents that there is not an appropriate public school placement for a child, there are different ways by which the DOE will pay for a private school special education placement. Charter School Students with disabilities are admitted to charter schools on the same basis as any other student. The CSE is responsible for the evaluation, identification, and placement, and the development of the Individualized Education Program (IEP), of all children in charter schools. Expand all Collapse all Additional Resources Resources Advocates for Children ARISE Coalition (Action for Reform in Special Education) Everyone Reading INCLUDEnyc Interagency Council of Developmental Disabilities Jewish Community Center in Manhattan Museum Access Consortium National Center for Learning Disabilities National Resource Center on ADHD New York University Child Study Center NYC Department of Education District 75 NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene: Early Intervention Services Understood.org Smart Kids with Learning Disabilities YAI Network Neuropsychological Testing Neuropsychological Testing at Columbia Doctors Contact the School & Child Care Search Service Carolyn Singer (expectant parents-age 5) [email protected] (212) 851-9184 Marcia Roesch (K-12) [email protected] (212) 851-9183 Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close