Site icons More open menu close search search search envelope pinterest-p twitter youtube facebook instagram linkedin caret-up caret-down next slide previous slide Footer Crest University of Wisconsin–Madison Working at UW Menu Home Human Resources Professional Development On Campus Employee Toolkit Campus News MyUW MyUW Home Email / Calendar Learn@UW Box Google Apps Map Directory Jobs UW Search Previous Next Welcome Your Employee Resource The University of Wisconsin–Madison can be a big place, with more than 21,000 faculty, staff, and graduate assistants contributing to our campus. With so many people working to support the Wisconsin Idea, employee communication is vital to our success. Working at UW is designed to be your employee home base, bringing together all of the resources you need in one place. Explore this site and discover information, news, tools, and services to help you be an effective, connected part of this amazing university. To learn more about UW–Madison’s commitment to employee communication, read our statement of values. Give us your feedback on this website. Email working@uc.wisc.edu. News for Employees Employee Appreciation Ice Cream Social June 1 May 25, 2022 All faculty and staff are invited to the Employee Appreciation Ice Cream Social on June 1 on Bascom Hill (weather permitting) from 1 to 2:30 p.m., or until supplies run out. Campus leaders will be giving out free ice cream in pre-made cups. Available ice cream flavors will be gluten-free, and gelatin-free and dairy-free options will also be available. If rain or severe weather prevents an outdoor event, the Ice Cream Social will be held in Birge Hall. A late-night Ice Cream Social will be held on June 29, at two campus locations, for UW employees who work second and third shifts; details about that event will be announced soon. More information » 2022–23 Parking Applications Open May 25, 2022 Parking applications are now open for the 2022–23 parking year for base lot (including reduced cost), flex, UW disabled, park and ride, and business alternate permits. Other parking and transportation options for 2022–23, including bus passes, afternoon, night, moped, and motorcycle permits, will be available to purchase starting August 1; these products do not require an application. Employees looking for summer parking have prorated options available. Find details at transportation.wisc.edu. More information » Dinner by Dining Returns May 25, 2022 University Housing is bringing back their weekly Dinner by Dining program, which offers convenient, family-style hot meals to order and pick up on your way home each Wednesday. Orders will be available for pick-up curbside at Carson’s Market, 1515 Tripp Circle, at designated pick-up times between 4:30–5:30 p.m. Each week offers a different menu. Orders for the current week’s menu will close at noon on the Monday of that week. Orders are open now for the June 1 menu, featuring a smoked BBQ pulled pork meal for two, four, or six guests. More information » Connect, Learn, and Grow Online Series Seeks Presenters May 25, 2022 Connect, Learn, and Grow is an online series offering meaningful, timely, and relevant learning opportunities for UW–Madison employees. Sessions will be held live on Thursdays, 1–2 p.m., during the summer months. Anyone who is interested in being a presenter is welcome to complete a Call for Proposals. If you have an idea for a topic or speaker, email conferences@ohr.wisc.edu. This virtual learning series is provided by Learning and Talent Development at UW–Madison. More information » Mnookin Named UW–Madison Chancellor May 18, 2022 Jennifer L. Mnookin, Dean of the School of Law and Ralph and Shirley Shapiro Professor of Law at the University of California, Los Angeles, has been named the 30th leader of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. The University of Wisconsin System Board of Regents unanimously approved Mnookin’s appointment as chancellor, following a recommendation made by a selection committee. Mnookin replaces Rebecca Blank and will begin as chancellor on Aug. 4, 2022. Blank’s last day in office will be May 31. UW–Madison Provost John Karl Scholz has agreed to serve as interim chancellor from the time of Blank’s departure until Mnookin begins. More information » Women and Leadership Symposium Registration Closing May 18, 2022 Registration closes today, May 18, for the UW–Madison Women and Leadership Symposium. The event is scheduled for Wednesday, June 1, 8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m. at Union South. The symposium brings together engaged professionals for networking, professional development, learning from women leaders, and sharing of best practices. The conference fee is $75 for UW–Madison faculty, staff, and students. More information » Employees Thanked for Their Support of Partners in Giving May 18, 2022 The 2021–22 Partners in Giving campaign raised a total of $2,043,526 to support more than 500 charities. The University Coordinating Committee wants to thank all of the volunteers and donors who helped make this campaign a success. Find out more about Partners in Giving at giving.wi.gov, and view the thank you video to learn about some of the many people and causes employee contributions have helped. More information » Resources and Networking for Supervisors May 18, 2022 Campus Supervisors Network (CSN) is a Community of Practice dedicated to promoting leadership and personnel management at UW–Madison by sharing ideas and best practices. CSN offers trainings, networking opportunities, online resources, and a weekly email newsletter. All UW supervisors are encouraged to participate. Learn more at campussupervisorsnetwork.wisc.edu. More information » 2022–23 Parking Rates and Policies Announced May 11, 2022 Transportation Services has announced parking rates and policies for the 2022–23 academic year (Sept. 1, 2022–Aug. 31, 2023). There will be a one percent increase for most parking permits. Most reduced and low-cost parking options introduced in 2020–21 will continue. There will be several changes to the Flex (pay-for-use) parking program, including a rate increase, and the multi-day parking pass will be discontinued for specified lots. Information about parking applications for the 2022–23 parking year will be released in mid-May. Please watch this newsletter and the Transportation Services website at transportation.wisc.edu for updates. Current customers for parking products will also receive updates via email. More information » Road Closures and Detours Starting May 16 May 11, 2022 Upcoming construction projects will cause lane closures on Charter Street, Walnut Street, and University Avenue/University Bay Drive starting the week of May 16. The closures will impact vehicles, bicycles, buses, and pedestrians traveling to and from campus. Additional construction projects will impact campus transportation this summer. Updates can be found at transportation.wisc.edu/construction. More information » More news Sign Up For News Via Text Messages Join a WhatsApp group to get key campus information sent directly to your smartphone. English Español / Spanish Hmoob / Hmong བོད་ཡིག / Tibetan 中文 / Chinese नेपाली / Nepali Submit News Do you have news that UW employees would find useful? Submit news to our editors and it may appear on the Working at UW website or email newsletter. Submit News Employee Events When adding events to the campus calendar, use the tag "employees." June 1 Women and Leadership Symposium 12:00 am, Union South 1 Employee Appreciation Ice Cream Social 1:00 pm, Bascom Hill 2 Teaching and Learning Meet Up A Teaching Academy event. Open to all! 4:00 pm, Rathskeller or Terrace, Memorial Union 7 Discovery to Product (D2P) Open House 4:30 pm, Online More events Sign up for WiscAlerts UW–Madison’s emergency notification system Image of Crest links to University of Wisconsin-Madison home page Resources Jobs Benefits Payroll Retirement Transportation Employee Assistance Chancellor's Blog Quick Links Accessibility Diversity Governance Policies Safety Title IX Contact Us Email working@uc.wisc.edu Submit News Submit a Calendar Event Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: working@uc.wisc.edu ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System • Privacy Statement