Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Faculty Recruitment Faculty Recruitment The Office of Work/Life offers an array of services designed to support faculty recruitment. Work/Life Programs & Services University Partners Programs, Services, and Resources In recognition of the impact that relocation can have on the whole family, the Office of Work/Life offers services to ease that transition. suitcase icon Faculty Spouse/Partner Dual Career Service If you are a newly-recruited faculty member, Columbia offers dual career services to assist your accompanying spouse/partner with the challenges of conducting non-academic job searches in a new location. Spouse/partner dual career services are provided as a resource only and do not create an entitlement to nor guarantee of employment. home icon Housing and Relocation The Housing Information and Referral Service provides individual consultations on renting or purchasing apartments and homes within commuting distance of Columbia University campuses. The service is available to all faculty, including faculty being recruited to the University, and to all other Columbia University employees. If you are a faculty member or visiting scholar looking for a sublet, please visit our Faculty Sublet page. If you do not yet have a uni, please contact Alice Lesman for sublet information. leanpub icon Early Education, Child Care, & K-12 Schooling We encourage you to contact us as soon as possible, even if you have not made a final decision about your move to NYC. In many cases, the admissions process begins the year before a child enters a program or school. child icon Back-Up Care Back-up Care is for the care of adults/elders, children, or yourself for those situations when normal care arrangements are interrupted or when short-term care is required but you still need to perform your work responsibilities. Coverage is available 24/7, nationwide and in some international locations. comments icon Adult and Elder Care Adult and Elder Care Services are provided through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The EAP offers a network of specialized services, such as information research, referral, and short-term counseling. The EAP can help you and your household members with adult/elder care management as well as mental health issues. This program also offers life coaching, convenience services, webinars, and access to retail discounts. book icon Related Work/Life Benefits and Policies Learn more about Columbia University benefits and policies designed to support your work/life needs. University Partners The Office of Work/Life is pleased to work with other departments across the University to support Columbia faculty. Faculty Advancement Faculty Diversity and Inclusion Emeritus Professors in Columbia (EPIC) Need more help? The Office of Work/Life team can meet together with recruits to discuss multiple relocation needs at one time. Contact Us Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close