Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Housing & Relocation Relocation Relocation Assistance finding child care, schools, elder care, housing and employment opportunities for your spouse/domestic partner. Related Information about Faculty Recruitment Relocation impacts your whole family, including your spouse/partner, children, parents and others. We can help you find housing, child care, schools, adult/elder care, and employment opportunities for your spouse/partner. Expand all Collapse all Housing Housing Information and Referral Service The Housing Information and Referral Service provides individual consultations on renting or purchasing apartments and homes within commuting distance of Columbia University campuses. University Apartment Housing (UAH) University Apartment Housing (UAH) provides rental or lease apartments for eligible Officers of Instruction, Research, and Libraries. Visitor Housing Visitor Housing may be available on campus for parents, alumni, and guest affiliates of Columbia. For additional information about other housing policies for Faculty, please refer to the memo dated May 9, 2013 on the Provost’s website. Affinity Lending Program The Affinity Lending Program may help the people of Columbia University finance the purchase of a home through arrangements with Everbank and Wells Fargo. Expand all Collapse all Early Education, Child Care, and Schooling School & Child Care Search Service The School & Child Care Search Service provides written materials and personal guidance to parents exploring all types of child care and educational opportunities within public, independent, faith-based , charter, and special needs schools. Back-up Care Back-up Care is available to people who are traveling to Columbia from another city/state/country for interviews, job talks, meetings, etc. Care will be available to family members, such as minor children, adults, or elders, who require it in order for the prospective faculty member to attend interviews and meetings related to potentially working at Columbia. Arrangements MUST be made in advance of arrival. Please email the Office of Work/Life or call (212) 854-8019 for more information and to arrange in advance of arrival. Expand all Collapse all Adult/Elder Care Adult and Elder Care Services Adult and Elder Care Services are provided through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The EAP provides a range of specialized services, including short-term counseling, to help you and your household members with the management of adult/elder care responsibilities. For more information about elder care support for relocating faculty, email the Office of Work/Life. Quick Links Housing Information and Referral Service Program Flyer Columbia University Faculty Housing Policy Columbia Residential Moving Guide Rental Guide Visitor Housing Related Links Columbia Preferred Moving and Storage Vendors Parking - Morningside & Manhattanville Parking - CUIMC RE-NYC Newsletter Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close