Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Office of Work-Life at Columbia University Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Well-Being Housing & Relocation Child Care & Schooling Breastfeeding Adult and Elder Care Faculty Recruitment Food & Nutrition Physical Activity Weight Management Mental & Emotional Well-being Sleep Health Well-Being in Your School or Department Video Library Housing Information & Referral Service Relocation Dual Career Services Affinity Mortgage Lending Program Affordable Housing Green Housing Temporary Housing & Hotels Moving Guide Rental Guide Neighborhood Guides Housing Discrimination School & Child Care Search Service Early Education and Child Care Early Intervention and Special Education Elementary School Information Middle School Information High School Information Summer and Holiday Programs Caregiving Programs and Resources Back-Up Care Admissions & Diagnostic Testing Tuition Programs Affiliated Early Learning Centers Resources for Parents During COVID-19 Breastfeeding Support Program Accessing Lactation Rooms Returning to Work or School Guide for Managers and Supervisors Setting up a Lactation Room Additional Resources & Discounts Office of Work-Life at Columbia University You are here: Home Events Understanding Dementia: What to Know and How CaringKind Can Help Events Current and Upcoming Understanding Dementia: What to Know and How CaringKind Can Help Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo June 1, 2022 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM America/New_York Online There are millions of Americans living with Alzheimer’s or other types of dementia. Observing the onset and progression of dementia in a loved one or friend can be upsetting and confusing. This workshop will cover the basics of dementia and will include some general caregiving tips and resources that can be beneficial to both you and your loved one. The workshop is presented by CaringKind, New York City’s leading expert on Alzheimer’s and dementia caregiving. Services available through CaringKind will be covered during the workshop. Presenter: Adina Segal, LCSW is the Jewish Community Outreach Social Worker at CaringKind, where she provides information, education and support to families affected by dementia in the Jewish communities in Brooklyn. Adina is passionate about working with individuals and families impacted by issues related to illness and aging. Zoom information will be sent to all registrants in advance of the workshop. Contact Information Office of Work/Life [email protected] Register on CU Events Upcoming Events Office of Work/LifeLow Library, North Balcony, 535 W. 116th St., MC 4337 · New York, NY 10027 School & Child Care Search ● Housing Information & Referral 516 W. 112th St. (Lionsgate Complex) · New York, NY 10025 Office of Work/Life CUIMC617 W. 168th Street, Georgian Building, Room 222 · New York , NY 10032 Phone (212) 854-8019 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close