Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale-NUS College Home Yale-NUS NUS slideshow Photos of Yale-NUS College In August 2021, the National University of Singapore announced reorganization plans that will result in Yale-NUS College merging with the NUS University Scholars Program to create a new college. In keeping with the founding agreement between Yale and NUS, Yale-NUS College will remain open through 2025 and all its current students will have the opportunity to complete their Yale-NUS degrees. Yale-NUS alumni will remain international affiliates of the Yale Alumni Association. After 2025, Yale will have no ongoing role in the governance of the new college. Yale-NUS College, a leading liberal arts and sciences college in Singapore, was jointly founded by the National University of Singapore (NUS) and Yale University. The college draws upon the resources and traditions of its two parent institutions to pursue academic excellence through innovative teaching and research and by providing students with global opportunities for learning and development. In 2009, Yale University and the National University of Singapore embarked on an ambitious plan to found Yale-NUS College, Singapore’s first liberal arts college with a full residential program that integrates living and learning. Drawing on the traditions of East and West, the establishment of the College forged a pioneering path in Asia to offer liberal arts and science education for a complex, interconnected world. As this community of learning continues to grow, it shares a passion for innovation, the rigor of intellectual inquiry and excellence, and the vibrancy of a global community. The innovative Yale-NUS common curriculum provides students with a foundation for 14 majors spanning the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences; a double degree in Law (NUS); concurrent graduate degrees with Yale School of the Environment, Yale School of Public Health, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy (NUS), or NUS School of Computing; pathway admission to Duke-NUS Medical School; and eligibility for the Yale School of Management’s Silver Scholars program. Upon graduation, Yale-NUS students join the ranks of the Yale Alumni Association as international affiliates. The exchange of people and ideas between Singapore and New Haven continues to deepen as faculty and students travel between the campuses. Yale-NUS students have a year-round presence at Yale through study abroad, summer courses, internships, and research experiences. And Yale students routinely participate in semester abroad or off-campus study opportunities through Yale-NUS. Yale faculty spend time in-residence at Yale-NUS during the academic year. Visitors experience the Yale-NUS community in a variety of ways from full-semester or year-long residency to week-long short courses to faculty search committee participation or guest lectures. The two institutions are also working to increase shared teaching and learning opportunities through course collaboration, the “Learning Across Boundaries” program, internships, research collaborations, and joint conferences. NUS page boxes Yale Faculty... Are you interested in teaching or research collaborations with Yale-NUS? Email for more information Yale Students... Are you interested in study abroad opportunities at Yale-NUS? Visit the Yale CIPE website to learn more NUS news News Related to Yale-NUS College 01/04/22 Inaugural Dean announced for NUS College The National University of Singapore (NUS) has appointed Simon Chesterman as Dean-designate of the new NUS College, the college that will result from the merger of Yale-NUS College with NUS’s University Scholars Programme. A recognized authority on international l... 11/01/21 Joanne Roberts appointed third President of Yale-NUS College Professor Tan Tai Yong will be stepping down as president of Yale-NUS College after completing his full five-year term of appointment at the end of this academic year, and Professor Joanne Roberts has been appointed to serve as president of the college beginning July 1, 2022,&... 08/27/21 Yale-NUS to be merged into a new college in 2025 06/04/21 Discovery in bird feathers has the potential to make fiber optics, solar cells, and fuel cells more efficient A team of scientists from Yale-NUS College, ETH Zurich, and Yale University have discovered how leafbirds make complex color-producing crystals with highly desirable optical and electronic properties. These crystals may serve as inspiration for multifunctional application... 03/26/21 Pinelopi Goldberg featured in Yale-NUS webinar 'Addressing Global Inequity' A webinar organized by Yale-NUS College focused on the topic 'Addressing Global Inequality' took place on March 30, 2021. It featured Pinelopi Goldberg, former Chief Economist of the World Bank and Elihu Professor of Economics at Yale University, and Dani Rodrik, Ford ... Yale-NUS College, New Haven Office Yale-NUS College, New Haven Office Yale University and Yale-NUS College maintain an office in New Haven to facilitate on-going programming and continued institutional collaboration. Yale-NUS College, New Haven Office 282 York Street, 2nd Fl New Haven, CT 06511 203.432.1317 yale-nus.college@yale.edu Staff Philip S. Gorski, Faculty Director Angela Kuhne, Associate Director Rachel Bashevkin, Program Coordinator Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility