Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search Nominate a Candidate World Fellows are rising stars from across sectors and borders. Each year, we scour the globe looking for people who are thinking outside the box, challenging stale solutions and creating new ways to address the world’s biggest problems. Ideal World Fellow candidates have demonstrated impact, are on the rise in their careers and are ambitious to grow to their full potential. Are we describing someone you know, or know of? Nominate a candidate by completing the form below. A few things to remember: You don’t need to be affiliated with Yale University to nominate a candidate. We encourage and accept nominations from anyone. Feel free to nominate more than one candidate. Please don’t nominate yourself. If you’d like to apply, you may sign up to be notified when the application becomes available. We give no preference to nominated candidates and a candidate does not need to be nominated in order to apply – this is simply our way of asking for your help to find the most dynamic, most creative, most innovative leaders out there. Multiple nominations of the same person do not increase their chance of being accepted. Tell us about the person you are nominating: Loading… Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow APPLICATIONS The World Fellows program is not currently accepting applications. Click below to be notified when the application for the 2023 program becomes available. Get Notified Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap