Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Opportunities Breadcrumb Home Opportunities CWP Full-time Positions Columbia World Projects seeks a Project Officer who will serve as a member of the Projects team focused on supporting the lifecycle of CWP projects while maintaining productive and professional work relationships with project partners, faculty and teams in order to effectively manage projects and maximize their impact. Read more and apply here. CWP seeks a Senior Planning and Development Officer. Reporting to the Director for Strategies and Partnerships, the Senior Planning and Development Officer will support and manage responsibilities for resource mobilization, proposal development and awards management, partnership management and strategy as outlined below. Access the full position description and submit an application, resume, and cover letter. CWP seeks a Director, Social Impact Leadership to oversee the Obama Foundation Scholars Program and create opportunities to engage and involve Columbia students in social impact leadership. The Director will develop and establish relationships with a range of key internal and external partners to advance CWP’s mission to deliver relevant capacity building, training and educational programming. development. Access the full position description and submit an application, resume, and cover letter. Consulting Opportunities: Columbia World Projects seeks a Human Resources Specialist Consultant to lead the design of a comprehensive human resources strategy and framework for CWP. The consultant will advise senior leadership on the administration of human resources policies and procedures, analyze and assess current HR programs and recommend solutions. Read more and apply here. Columbia World Projects seeks a Climate Action Collective consultant to develop the design and implementation strategies of three approaches to solicit regional stakeholder inputs and insights on climate change, conduct activities to elicit data, as well as conduct analyses of resulting data. Read more and apply here. Columbia World Projects seeks local and international consultants across a range of technical and development fields. Read more and apply here. Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu