Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Partners & Networks Home Academics & Research Partners & Networks Yale is well known as an institution that leverages the power of partnerships and valuable networks to transform the educational experiences and career opportunities of students. In a world that is growing in complexity and becoming more interrelated, to be successful universities must embrace global networks and exchanges. By combining diverse strengths and insights, universities, networks and global communities can create a shared future for the entire world. “Partnerships are important because the most significant problems facing our world today are not going to be solved by individuals or countries working alone, but only by all of us working collaboratively together,” said President Peter Salovey. Learn more about Yale’s institutional partnerships here. Partners & Networks News Partnership News 12/03/20 Yale partnership with USP flourishes with new 'PrInt' program The partnership between Yale University and the University of São Paulo (USP) has been growing annually with the development of joint research, technology transfer agreements, and exchange of students and scholars. The most recent initiative is focused on the Institutio... 04/24/20 Yale partnership with SJTU brings donation of N95 masks Longstanding partnerships between Yale University and Chinese universities continue to provide connections that make possible the donation and delivery of personal protective equipment (PPE) for use by staff on the front lines of Yale's response to the COVID19 pandemic. O... View All News Partners & Networks callout top one wide Yale UCL Collaborative The collaborative promotes exchanges and the development of novel ideas made possible by the complementarity of two great universities. Find out more Partners & Networks callouts Global Network for Advanced Management (GNAM) Launched in 2012 by a consortium of schools including the Yale School of Management, the GNAM includes leading business schools from diverse regional, countries, cultures, and economies. Find out more International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU) Yale’s is a founding member of the International Alliance of Research Universities (IARU), a network of eleven international research-intensive universities from nine countries. Find out more Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility