Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News News Home News Search News FILTER (0 selected) By Region Africa Asia Australia & Oceania Brazil Brazil Profiles Central Asia China China-Yale Advanced University Leadership Program Climate East Asia Europe Latin America Middle East Partners & Networks Planetary Singapore South America South Asia Worldwide Yale Center Beijing Yale Institute for Global Health Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs By Content Campus News Newsletter CLEAR ALL 05/31/22 Yale Child Study Center project to examine experiences of racial aggression toward early education providers In order to better understand the degree and nature of anti-Asian racial aggression and trauma experienced by Asian-American early educators during the COVID-19 pandemic, Yale Child Study Center research faculty members Tong Liu and Walter Gilliam have launched the Asian-Ameri... 05/20/22 PRCH and PUB New Haven host 'First Academic Meeting of Brazilian University Researchers at Yale' A collaboration between the Yale Program for Recovery and Community Health (PRCH) and Pesquisadores Universitários Brasileiros (PUB) New Haven hosted the 'First Academic Meeting of Brazilian University Researchers at Yale University' on May 18, 2022. The ev... 05/16/22 Yale's response to the invasion of Ukraine https://world.yale.edu/ukraine 05/10/22 Yale School of Medicine faculty stand 'United for Ukraine' Since the war began, Andrey Zinchuk, MD, MHS, has been connecting with other Ukrainians at Yale University and Yale School of Medicine (YSM). As a result, a group of Ukrainian Yale faculty have created United for Ukraine, Inc. and have been sending supplies to hosp... 05/02/22 Yale SOM group releases 2022 list of top African startups Yale African Startup Review (YASR), a digital publication created by students and alumni of the Yale School of Management, selected 30 companies for its 2022 list of Africa’s most innovative startups. Publication of the list is intended to draw attention to the African s... 04/29/22 Collaborative study of ancient DNA in Africa unearths patterns of life in the Stone Age A new study co-led by Jessica Thompson, assistant professor of anthropology at Yale and assistant curator at the Peabody Museum, has made crucial progress in studying the movements of African populations during the Stone Age by sequencing genomes from ancient DNA. The study wa... 04/20/22 Infrastructure inequality is a challenge to urban sustainability A new study by researchers at the Yale School of the Environment (YSE) focuses on infrastructure in India and South Africa to find that infrastructure inequalities are ingrained in the urbanization process. Growing up in Delhi, India, Bhartendu Pandey ’21 PhD walked mil... 04/13/22 What does Vladimir Putin want? In a recent interview Yale School of Management's Barry Nalebuff, an expert on game theory and negotiation, discusses what it will take to find common ground and bring the war in Ukraine to an end, whether the conflict could escalate to a nuclear exchange, and how the war ... 04/07/22 Management in Practice: What do Ukraine’s NGOs Need? Nonprofits are stretched delivering services to vulnerable, underserved populations in the best of times. What do they do when they find themselves operating in a war zone where a quarter of the population is displaced? A recent interview published in Yale Insights focused on ... 04/07/22 Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program accepting applications from faculty and post-docs Each year, the Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program accepts applications from faculty and post-docs (U.S. citizens only) who are interested in doing research and/or teaching abroad. This opportunity provides valuable professional experiences to scholars while enabling them to partic... Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility