Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale Institute for Global Health Home Yale Institute for Global Health The Yale Institute for Global Health (YIGH) is the focal point forglobal health at Yale, bringing together expertise and knowledge from across campus with partners around the world. With a center of gravity close to Yale’s schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health, YIGH represents a university-wide mission. By actively collaborating across disciplines and seizing opportunities for innovation, YIGH aims to speed the translation of new scientific discoveries into better health for all. YIGH was established to accelerate scientific breakthroughs and their impact to address some of the most urgent issues related to global health by fostering partnerships to improve the wellbeing of populations around the world. Learn more by reading the YIGH brochure (PDF) and visiting the YIGH website. YIGH Related News Related News 12/13/21 Leadership Fellows gain firsthand global health experience The Yale Institute for Global Health (YIGH) Leadership in Global Health Fellowship program is designed to offer training and inspiration to young professionals who have a passion for and understanding of the critical importance of health for a just and equitable soci... 12/02/21 YIGH co-sponsored lecture series spotlights conversations with global health decision-makers The Yale Institute for Global Health (YIGH) Conversation Series features pivotal decision-makers in the world of global health. Co-sponsored by the George Herbert Walker, Jr. Lecture in International Studies at the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area ... 09/08/21 Partners join forces to address Caribbean’s climate and health crisis A consortium of more than 25 organizations has come together to address the public health challenge of climate change in the Caribbean, one of the most vulnerable regions in the world to the adverse health effects of the climate crisis. The consortium includes the Yale Center... 07/26/21 Study co-authored by Yale’s Mushfiq Mobarak and Saad Omer: Prioritize developing nations for vaccine distribution 07/23/21 Yale Receives $15 Million for Health Education Collaboration Yale has received a $15 million, five-year U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) award to advance research utilization in Liberia’s health sector. This award will fund the continuation of Yale’s strong partnership with the University of Liberia and Vand... View All News Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility