Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Admissions Home Admissions Body With 22% of its student body coming from abroad, Yale University offers a diverse and exciting global environment in which to study. Yale’s history of including international students is a long one, starting back in the 1800s. Today, Yale welcomes the largest international community in its history, with a current enrollment of 2,841 international students from 121 countries. Applying to Yale To be considered for acceptance to Yale, interested applicants must apply directly to the school, college, or program where the degree will be awarded: Yale College for undergraduate degrees; the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences for doctoral programs and some master’s degrees; or one of the professional schools for those seeking a professional degree. Each program has its own procedures for international applicants and for applying for financial assistance. Additional information for international applicants may be found here. Admissions Landing Page 3 Callout Boxes with Arrows Yale College Yale is committed to the idea of a liberal arts education through which students think and learn across disciplines, literally liberating or freeing the mind to its fullest potential. All undergraduate or bachelor’s degrees (BA and BS) at Yale are offered through Yale College. Visit for information about Yale College and advice for applicants Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Advanced degrees are offered through the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences and 12 professional schools (see links below). Information on programs of study, academic requirements, and financial aid are specific to each school. Visit for information about doctoral programs Yale Summer Session Yale Summer Session offers academically rigorous and innovative undergraduate programs and courses open to visiting students from around the world. Learn More Professional Schools School of Architecture School of Art Divinity School School of Drama School of Engineering & Applied Science School of Forestry & Environmental Studies Law School School of Management School of Medicine School of Music School of Nursing School of Public Health Institute of Sacred Music Other Programs English Language Institute Yale Summer Session Programs Not Granting Degrees Open Yale Courses Coursera Free Online Courses Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program Yale Young Global Scholars Yale Young Africa Scholars Fellowships and Financial Assistance Yale offers significant financial assistance to international students to cover tuition costs as it does with students from the U.S. Each school at Yale has its own procedures for applying for financial assistance or fellowships. Please contact directly the school to which you are applying for their list of fellowships and financial aid opportunities. Yale also offers a small number of academic exchange programs with universities around the world. The following are some of the opportunities which are available. Fox International Fellowships Latin American Linkage Program at Yale Law School School of Medicine International Exchange Programs Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Exchanges Yale UCL Collaborative Student Exchange Program Yale Visiting International Student Program Yale-NUS College Founded in 2011, Yale-NUS College is the result of a collaboration between Yale University and the National University of Singapore (NUS). Yale-NUS seeks to redefine liberal arts and science education for a complex, interconnected world. Yale-NUS College is an autonomous college within NUS, and is not a branch campus of Yale University, but retains close ties to the university through several joint-degree programs, visiting faculty, and study abroad opportunities for students. Learn more on admissions to Yale-NUS college here. Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility