Skip to main content Search Toggle Search Harvard University Provost's Office Vice Provost for International Affairs One Harvard, One World Worldwide Week at Harvard By the Numbers Social Feeds Administrative Support The World at Harvard Harvard in the World Join Us at Harvard HarvardWorldwide Harvard in the World Locations Abroad Harvard's offices and other locations abroad link Harvard and the world. They support Harvard faculty and students in their work worldwide and connect local individuals, organizations, and alumni to Harvard. Locations Abroad Harvard’s locations abroad are key drivers of the University’s global mission. They vary widely in scope and scale, but all link Harvard faculty and students to local academic institutions, government organizations, businesses, and communities, and all connect their host country or region to Harvard. Locations managed by Harvard’s area studies centers support programs across Harvard; locations managed by Harvard Schools support activities for faculty and students of that particular School. Select map pins to explore Africa Academy for Public Health, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Established: 2009 The Africa Academy for Public Health is an independent organization that evolved from decades of research collaborations between the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and various research and training institutions in Tanzania. The goal of the AAPH is to... Archaeological Exploration of Sardis, Sart, Turkey Established: 1958 Since its founding in 1958 by Harvard and Cornell Universities, the Archaeological Exploration of Sardis has excavated, conserved, and published on aspects of the ancient city of Sardis in western Turkey from prehistoric through Islamic periods. Botswana Harvard Partnership, Gaborone, Botswana Established: 1996 The Botswana Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership is a collaborative research and training initiative between the Government of Botswana and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health AIDS Initiative to combat HIV/AIDS through research, education, and capacity... Center for African Studies Africa Office, Johannesburg, South Africa Established: 2016 The Center for African Studies Africa Office advances CAS’s mission to expanding knowledge about Africa. Located in Johannesburg, it supports multidisciplinary research, study abroad opportunities for students, academic events like conferences and seminars, and... Center for Hellenic Studies in Greece, Nafplio, Greece Established: 2008 The Center for Hellenic Studies office in Nafplio, Greece brings the academic resources of Harvard to Greece while providing support for scholars, students, and researchers from Harvard to engage in the study of Greece and Hellenic civilization. Center for Middle Eastern Studies Tunisia Office, Tunis, Tunisia Established: 2017 The Center for Middle Eastern Studies Tunisia Office hosts and supports Harvard students and faculty conducting research on the Maghreb and the Middle East, strengthens connections between Harvard and academics in the MENA region, and facilitates access to Tunisian... DRCLAS Brazil Office, São Paulo, Brazil Established: 2006 The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies’ Brazil Office develops and facilitates initiatives that connect faculty and students at Harvard with leading thinkers in Brazil to advance research, provide opportunities for students at Harvard in Brazil, and... DRCLAS Mexico Office, Mexico City, Mexico Established: 2012 The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies’ Mexico Office, which serves Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean, aims to increase the involvement of Harvard faculty in the region, connect Harvard students to academic and professional opportunities,... DRCLAS Regional Office, Santiago, Chile Established: 2002 The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies’ Regional Office in Santiago, Chile supports a wide variety of academic activities across the Southern Cone and Andean region of South America, from faculty-led research projects to study and language... Harvard Center Shanghai, Shanghai, China Established: 2010 The Harvard Center Shanghai supports activities that make is possible for Harvard faculty and students to study and work in China, and supports a wide variety of activities that Chinese students, scholars, and professionals to Harvard. Jointly operated by the... Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health India Research Center, Mumbai, India Established: 2016 The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health India Research Center aims to create new networks and research partnerships to improve the quality of public health in India and beyond, and to create new opportunities for Harvard Chan students and scholars to work with... HBS Africa Research Center, Johannesburg, South Africa Established: 2019 HBS continues its efforts to build a deep understanding of and expertise in global business practice and innovation around the world, including throughout Africa, a region that is assuming an increasingly vital role in the world economy. HBS Asia-Pacific Research Center, Hong Kong Established: 1999 The Harvard Business School’s Asia-Pacific Research Center in Hong Kong was HBS’s first global research center. Together with the Harvard Center Shanghai and an HBS office in Singapore, the APRC in Hong Kong supports faculty research and a full range of MBA and HBS... HBS Europe Research Center, Paris, France Established: 2003 The Harvard Business School’s Europe Research Center helps HBS develop and strengthen relationships with European business and academic leaders, helping HBS faculty examine one of the world’s most important economic regions during a time of significant transformation... HBS India Research Center, Mumbai, India Established: 2006 Since its launch in 2006, the Harvard Business School India Research Center has supported most of the case studies and HBS research projects focused on South Asian business issues. It also serves as the home for one of two HBS style classrooms outside of Boston,... HBS Japan Research Center, Tokyo, Japan Established: 2002 Opened in 2002, the Harvard Business School Japan Research Center aims to deepen HBS faculty members’ understanding of and exposure to Japanese management issues, trends, and practices, as well as develop locally relevant case studies and course materials for... HBS Latin America Research Center, São Paulo, Brazil Established: 2015 In 2015, Harvard Business School opened the São Paulo office of its Latin America Research Center to further expand the capacity of HBS faculty and students to study business management challenges across South America. HBS Latin America Research Center, Buenos Aires, Argentina Established: 2000 The Harvard Business School’s Latin America Research Center in Buenos Aires supports in-depth case research by HBS faculty members and the development of course materials that focus on business management issues specific to Latin American companies. HBS Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Research Center, Istanbul, Turkey Established: 2013 The Harvard Business School’s Middle East and North Africa Research Center and its affiliated offices in Dubai and Tel Aviv support HBS faculty research, student programming, executive education, and Harvard Business Publishing, helping each to strengthen... Richard Rogers House at Wimbledon--GSD, Wimbledon, United Kingdom Established: 2016 The Richard Rogers House at Wimbledon was gifted to the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 2015 by Lord Rogers, the renowned British architect, to ensure the iconic home’s preservation as a residence, and also to provide a unique space for multidisciplinary... The Lakshmi Mittal South Asia Institute India Office, Delhi, India Established: 2017 The Lakshmi Mittal South Asia Institute India Office in Delhi supports a variety of University-wide activities, from collaborative research projects, to student internships and language study, to postdoctoral fellowship programs. Villa I Tatti Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies, Florence, Italy Established: 1959 Harvard opened its Center for Italian Renaissance Studies, Villa I Tatti, in 1959 after the property and its collection of books, photographs, and works of art were donated to the University by Bernard Berenson. Today, Villa I Tatti hosts graduate and postdoctoral... Research Funding Harvard has a variety of internal sources of funding to support international research by its faculty and students. Research Funding Harvard has a wide variety of funding sources for student and faculty research. Below are links to Harvard-based funding sources for global research. In addition, there are links below to websites for offices in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health which help their faculty members find and obtain research funding. Sources of Funding Funding Sources for Undergraduates (PIN protected) Database of Funding and Opportunities for Undergraduates Funding Sources for Graduate Students This list is maintained by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences but includes funding sources available to graduate students at any Harvard School. Funding Sources for Faculty Harvard Global Institute Sources maintained by Vice Provost for Research Sources maintained by FAS Research Development (most but not all of these are “international”) Help for Faculty Seeking Funding FAS Research Development Office of Research Strategy and Development, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Search Harvard's International Activities Browse or search by keyword through a database of Harvard’s worldwide activities and opportunities. Online Learning: HarvardX HarvardX is part of EdX, an online learning destination founded by Harvard and MIT in 2012. EdX now includes more than 90 global partners offering high-quality courses to students worldwide. Alumni Abroad Harvard alumni can be found in almost every country in the world. The Harvard Alumni Association fosters connections with this vast global alumni community. Stories Harvard students and scholars learn from colleagues around the world, and with colleagues around the world, in a constant, mutually beneficial exchange of ideas and actions. These stories provide just a few examples of that ongoing exchange and its impact on Harvard and the world. One Harvard, One World Brochure A brief snapshot of Harvard University's global engagement, in a downloadable six-page PDF brochure. 200 countries and from every background 8,760 trips abroad in 2018 for research, study, and more 10,941 international students and scholars at Harvard this year Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center Suite 850 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, Massachusetts 01238 USA Contact Us Office of the Provost Harvard University Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College