Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Feb 08, 2022 Columbia World Project ‘Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem’ Kicks Off Focus Groups News Breadcrumb Home News & Media Columbia World Project ‘Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem’ Kicks Off Focus Groups The Columbia World Project Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem on Tuesday launched a series of focus groups—a next step toward achieving the project’s goal of reducing COVID-19 related grief in the Harlem community. The focus groups will engage Black community leaders in Harlem in a series of discussions that will be used to help enhance a set of digital tools – such as apps and videos – developed by Columbia’s Center for Prolonged Grief. The tools are being used to address prolonged grief disorder, a clinically recognized mental disorder in which grief is unusually intense, enduring and pervades everyday life. The insights from these focus groups will be used to adapt the Center’s digital tools to better serve the Black community. The modified digital tools will be disseminated across Harlem and to other communities of color coping with ongoing grief as a result of the pandemic. Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem kicked off in October of 2021. The project works in partnership with the Center for Prolonged Grief; Mobilizing Preachers and Community, New York; and SAFELab at the Columbia School of Social Work. It is one of three Columbia World Projects that aims to tackle challenges related to the pandemic. Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu