Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search News Posted on May 10, 2021 Jackson to launch new center on leadership The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs announced today that it will launch a new International Leadership Center (ILC) and integrate International Security Studies (ISS) in order to further strengthen the Institute’s core research mission. “I am incredibly excited to bring in these two additions to the Jackson Institute family,” said Jim Levinsohn, director of the Jackson Institute. “Both complement Jackson’s mission of educating global leaders and preparing them to make a positive impact in the world.” The ILC will focus on building a global community of practitioners dedicated to furthering geopolitical understanding, preventing conflict, and building better societies. Led by Emma Sky, a Jackson Senior Fellow and Director of the Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program,… Read More Posted on November 20, 2020 2020 World Fellows wrap up time at Yale Today marks the official end of the 2020 World Fellows Program. And it ended, as it began, with a Zoom. A Zoom in which the Fellows reflected on the goals they had set themselves at the outset – and what they were able to achieve during the fellowship. And those achievements are impressive: they gave virtual talks on entrepreneurship; biodiversity and conservation; inequality in the Middle East; human rights; domestic violence; refugees; the Rwandan genocide; the peace process in Afghanistan; the United Nations; the challenges facing Hong Kong; sanitation; social development; the impact of the pandemic; and protests and social movements in Africa. They mentored their student liaisons as well… Read More Posted on August 24, 2020 Yale World Fellows express solidarity with Alexey Navalny Yale World Fellows express solidarity with Alexey Navalny, a 2010 Yale World Fellow, and call on the Russian authorities to support an independent investigation into the attack. More than 150 Fellows from around the globe have signed on to the statement to show their solidarity. See the full statement here Read More Posted on December 12, 2019 In Closing: Class of 2019 wraps up time at Yale The 2019 World Fellows concluded their four-month journey at Yale during the Closing Ceremony in Horchow Hall’s GM Room on Dec. 10, 2019. The 15 Fellows were recognized for their contributions to the Yale community, and each received a certificate. The ceremony was attended by friends and family members of the fellows, student liaisons who worked with fellows, Yale faculty and World Fellows & Jackson Institute staff. Pericles Lewis, Yale’s Vice President for Global Strategy and Vice Provost for International Affairs, offered welcoming remarks. He underscored the Fellows’ contributions to the Yale community. “One of Yale’s goals is to be the university that best educates global citizens and global leaders. You are models [for our… Read More Posted on December 3, 2019 2019 Fellows address key issues of the day The 2019 World Fellows spent this semester giving guest lectures in classrooms, mentoring Yale students, hosting documentary filmmakers and musicians, and sharing practices for sustainable living. Each week, the World Fellows gave talks on an incredibly broad range of topics, including open data governance in China; public health policy; ocean conservation; press freedom; global leadership and power; the rights of indigenous peoples; poverty alleviation; Ukrainian politics and anticorruption efforts; and navigating identity in leadership. Here are a few hot topics from the semester: CLIMATE CHANGE In September 2019, the UN Climate Action Summit was held in New York City, and several published reports highlighted the imperative of addressing climate change. At Yale, 2019 World… Read More Posted on September 27, 2019 Global Innovation Symposium 2019 “I think of innovation as shifts in perspective….there’s not just one way to innovate. Innovation comes out of all disciplines.” Those were part of the remarks delivered by Tsai CITY executive director Clare Leinweber as she opened the Global Innovation Symposium on September 26. The all-day event, a collaboration between the Knowledge Equity Initiative and Yale’s Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program, was spearheaded by Baljeet Sandhu, Tsai CITY Senior Global Innovator and 2017 World Fellow. Building on last year’s successful Global Innovation Series, which brought talks on innovation, leadership and impact to over 400 members of the Yale and New Haven community, the symposium gathered an inspiring lineup of… Read More Posted on December 7, 2018 2018 Fellows conclude time at Yale The 2018 World Fellows concluded their four-month journey at Yale during the Closing Ceremony in Horchow Hall’s GM Room on Dec. 6, 2018. The 16 Fellows and three Associate Fellows were recognized for their contributions to the Yale community, and each received a certificate. The ceremony was attended by friends and family members of the fellows, student liaisons who worked with fellows, Yale faculty and World Fellows & Jackson Institute staff. Pericles Lewis, Yale’s Vice President for Global Strategy and Deputy Provost for International Affairs, offered welcoming remarks. He underscored the Fellows’ contributions to the Yale community. “Yale has been immeasurably enriched by your presence here,” Lewis said. Emma Sky,… Read More Posted on February 7, 2018 World Fellows Program marks 16th year When Norbert Mao came to Yale in 2003, he was a 36-year-old member of Parliament, representing the city of Gulu in the northern region of Uganda. At the time, the area was the epicenter of a decades-long war, and Mao was working with other parliamentarians to bring peace. During his four months on campus, Mao made the most of Yale’s extensive resources and academic offerings. He took advantage of the one-on-one media training provided by the World Fellows Program. Courses in corporate leadership and grand strategy helped expand his leadership skills, and a writing course helped him refine his communications skills. Upon returning home, he jumped into the rough-and -tumble… Read More Posted on December 8, 2017 2017 Fellows wrap up time at Yale The 2017 Yale Greenberg World Fellows concluded their four-month journey at Yale during the Closing Ceremony in Horchow Hall’s GM Room on Dec. 7, 2017. The 16 Fellows and two Associate Fellows were recognized for their contributions to the Yale community and each received a certificate. The ceremony was attended by friends and family members of the fellows, student liaisons who worked with fellows, Yale faculty and World Fellows & Jackson Institute staff. “Thank you for enriching our community,” Professor Jim Levinsohn told Fellows. “We’re a better place because you’re here,” added Levinsohn, who serves as director of the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, home to the World Fellows Program…. Read More Posted on March 17, 2017 WISE event brings together World Fellows and young learners In March 2017, World Fellows director Emma Sky accompanied four World Fellows to Athens to contribute to the WISE Learners’ Voice program. The World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) Learners’ Voice, which is supported by the Qatar Foundation and Santander Universities, brings together around 30 young people from around the world to build knowledge of education, social entrepreneurship, leadership and education. This year they are focusing on the Global Refugee Crisis, with expert sessions and volunteer work with Khora, Metadrasi and Organization Earth. Over the course of the year, the WISE Learners’ Voice will develop proposals to address education challenges facing refugees. In the first residential session of the Program,… Read More Posts navigation More News Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow Tweets by @WorldFellows Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap