Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search Get Involved Student Liaisons Student Liaisons The Student Liaison Program offers Yale students a chance to expand their horizons far beyond traditional academic opportunities, glimpsing the global impact of a World Fellows cohort, while working directly with and being mentored by an individual Fellow. Imagine having access to a truly accomplished global citizen; one who is already driving systemic political changes, creating more sustainable ecosystems, or upending human rights inequalities (just a few examples). During the fall term, while the World Fellows are on campus, Liaisons work with the World Fellow(s) paired to their residential college. Liaisons assist Fellows with everything from campus integration to event planning, while benefiting from the mentorship each Fellow provides in return. The lasting relationships between Liaisons and World Fellows drive meaningful experiences on campus and ongoing impact around the globe. APPLY NOW FOR FALL 2022 ABOUT THE STUDENT LIAISON PROGRAM How To Apply: The application deadline for the Fall 2022 Liaison program is 12:00 PM EDT (noon) on September 7, 2022. Apply now. Expectations of Liaisons: Integrate your World Fellow into your residential college and introduce them to Yale student life Assist your Fellow in organizing campus talks, including marketing and publicizing these events to bring together those interested in the topic of discussion Develop opportunities for World Fellows to engage with students across campus Eligibility: The World Fellows Student Liaison program is open to all Yale College students who are actively enrolled in the Fall 2022 semester. 2022 World Fellow Residential College Affiliations: Student Liaisons will be paired with the World Fellow(s) affiliated with their residential college. Benjamin Franklin: Belva Devara Berkeley: Martin Inthamoussú Branford: Solangel Fernández Davenport: Andrei Kureichik Timothy Dwight: Vera Kwakofi Grace Hopper: Kirsten Rulf and Babatunde Omilola Jonathan Edwards: Jad Maalouf Morse: Kyriacos Koupparis Pauli Murray: Fakhar Durrani Pierson: Sahar Albazar Saybrook: Manasi Subramaniam Silliman: Huong Dang Ezra Stiles: Zhao Zhong Trumbull: Kopano Matlwa Mabaso and Minami Tsubouchi Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow APPLICATION OPEN The World Fellows program is currently accepting applications for Student Liaisons for Fall 2022. Application Deadline: September 7, 2022 Apply Now Susie Beyl YC'20 “I wanted to interact with the world in a new way; through those who were changing it. Seeing the Fellows, who seem to me like they have already left enormous legacies of change worldwide, congregate at Yale to continue learning about and from each other is inspiring. I believe there is a lot of truth in the statement, ‘You have to see it to be it.’ As a liaison, now having seen it, I will think back with unending gratitude to the 2018 class of Fellows with each step, whatever it might be, as I try my own hand at ‘being it.’” Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap