Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Meet the Scholars Breadcrumb Home Meet the Scholars See Also 2021-2022 Scholars Millicent Barty SOLOMON ISLANDS Founder and Lead Designer, Millicent Designs Combining traditional oral history practices with innovative infographic design to communicate complex development issues across the Solomon Islands. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Cecilia Chapiro ARGENTINA & SPAIN Investments Lead, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF); Founder, Yunus & Youth Using technology and innovative financing to enable entrepreneurial ecosystems to grow and progress the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Nika Kovač SLOVENIA Founding Director, 8th of March Research Institute Building coalitions to transform legal precedent on gender and economic inequalities in Slovenia. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Jean-Noé Landry CANADA Social entrepreneur and open data advocate; Former Executive Director, Open North Guiding public, private and community stakeholders towards the responsible and collaborative use of data and technology to solve complex social and environmental problems. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Vincent Loka INDONESIA & SINGAPORE Co-Founder and Chief Technology Officer, Wateroam Working towards a world without prolonged thirst by providing access to clean, affordable water technologies in areas with limited infrastructure across Southeast Asia. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Lineo Matlakala LESOTHO Founder and Director, Barali Foundation Using arts, advocacy, and education to promote women’s reproductive health and financial independence in Lesotho. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Patience Musiwa Mkandawire MALAWI Founder and Executive Director, Fount for Nations Building inclusive learning opportunities for all children in Malawi by improving educational access and equity for children with special-needs and intellectual disabilities. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Mohit Raj INDIA Co-Founder and Executive Director, Project Second Chance India, Turn Your Concern Into Action Foundation (TYCIA) Working with incarcerated and justice-involved youth in India to bring systematic and structured change to the Indian prison landscape. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Mohammed Keana Sabo NIGERIA Founder and Team Lead, Almajiri Child Rights Initiative Advocating for the social inclusion and right to education of vulnerable children by promoting sustainable development and accountable governance. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Melusi Simelane ESWATINI Founding Director, Eswatini Sexual & Gender Minorities Advocating for the acceptance and legal rights of the LGBTQ community in Eswatini and building intersectional human rights coalitions to empower young leaders across Southern Africa. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Juliana Tafur UNITED STATES Founder and Social Impact Filmmaker, Story Powerhouse Designing and implementing a listening methodology to inspire positive dialogue across differences and foster human connection. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Francesco Tena UNITED STATES Founder, Pipeline to Power Training young people to be leaders in participatory budgeting processes and governmental decision-making across the United States and Canada. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt View more keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_down 12 2020-2021 Scholars Bernise Ang SINGAPORE Chief Alchemist, Zeroth Labs Tackling social and economic inequities by supporting developing countries and cities as they translate underlying system dynamics into impactful public policy. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Hamza Arsbi JORDAN CEO, Mind Lab Increasing access to quality education and preparing youth in underserved communities across Jordan with skills for today’s challenges through content development and experiential learning. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Nicodemus Ajak Bior SOUTH SUDAN Information Commissioner Enhancing South Sudan’s governance by ensuring the public’s right of access to transparent information and by strengthening the country’s rule of law. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Timothy Franklyn INDIA Founder, National School of Journalism and Public Discourse, Bengaluru Nurturing, inspiring and training the next generation to become courageous and professional journalists who are committed to justice, truth, pluralism and liberal democracy in India. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Shazeeb M Khairul Islam BANGLADESH Founder & Managing Director of YY Ventures Accelerating social innovation by supporting socially and environmentally conscious young entrepreneurs who are committed to reducing poverty, unemployment and carbon emissions. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Yaqian (Zelda) Liang HONG KONG, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Former Policy Advisor, Oxfam Advocating for responsible and conflict-sensitive investment in developing countries by convening evidence-based dialogues between stakeholders and empowering local communities to participate... Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Davis Makori KENYA Advocate for the protection of civilians from armed conflict Engaging global coalitions to create collective action campaigns to protect civilians from armed conflict across East Africa. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Maralmaa Munkh-Achit MONGOLIA Executive Director, Zorig Foundation Empowering the next generation of young leaders in Mongolia by improving their access to quality education and employment. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Flávia Neves Maia BRAZIL Researcher and practitioner in urban planning Innovating participatory urban planning by leveraging local governments' capacity to promote gender equality and climate action in the making of resilient cities of the future. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Inés Palacios ARGENTINA Former Chief of Staff of the Gender and Sexual Diversity Institute of the Buenos Aires Province Government Fostering the implementation of intersectional gender mainstreaming policies in the public sector to reduce gendered economic inequality and prioritize Indigenous populations. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Éva Tessza Udvarhelyi HUNGARY Head of the Office for Community Participation, Municipality of the 8th District of Budapest Supporting community participation and social justice in cities. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt View more keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_down 11 2019-2020 Scholars Ali Almurtadha YEMEN Human Rights Researcher Defending human rights through the documentation of violations against civilians and conducting advocacy efforts locally and internationally to shed light on the conflict in Yemen. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Edmond Byaruhanga Atto UGANDA Senior Software Engineer, Andela Encouraging the growth of technology and innovation in Africa by providing pathways for youth to learn software development skills. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Kirsten Brosbøl DENMARK Former Minister of Environment and Member of Parliament Working across political and geographic divides to foster collaboration around concrete actions to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals - for a more equal, just, and green future for all. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Mor Efrat ISRAEL Director of the Occupied Palestinian Territories Department, Physicians for Human Rights, Israel Advocating for health care access for Palestinian patients who need to leave Gaza and the West Bank for treatment and educating groups around the barriers in the current permit system. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Natalia Herbst ARGENTINA Former Director for Community Organizations, National Youth Institute, Ministry of Health and Social Development Developing youth-centered public policy focused on social inclusion, health and rights, culture and employability so that young people are empowered to define their own goals and reach their full potential. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Ruth Kissam PAPUA NEW GUINEA Director of Operations, Papua New Guinea Tribal Foundation Fostering collaboration between stakeholders and government on the implementation of policies related to Sorcery Accusation Related Violence. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Samira Koujok LEBANON Human Rights Researcher Working with civil society organizations and families of missing persons to enhance their capacity to address the issue of the missing and promote an accountability process in Syria. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Peter Kwame Mwakio KENYA Co-founder and Programs Director, Hatua Network Organization Promoting equal opportunity in Kenya by providing promising, low-income students with scholarships, mentoring, and career guidance that prepares them for careers and to serve as a link... Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Wai Wai Nu MYANMAR Founder and Executive Director, Women Peace Network; Founder, Yangon Youth Leadership Center Empowering young people and women from marginalized communities through programming that builds peace and mutual understanding among diverse groups in Myanmar. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Isaiah Owolabi NIGERIA Co-founder and Project Director, HACEY Health Initiative Leveraging an innovative capacity building, advocacy, research and education (iCARE) approach to implement solutions and drive accountability to create a healthy and productive society for women and girls. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Christian Vanizette FRANCE Co-founder, Makesense.org On a mission to engage millions of citizens to solve the global goals through community organizing and technology solutions. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt View more keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_down 11 2018-2019 Scholars Alice Barbe FRANCE CEO and Co-founder, SINGA France Fostering collaboration between refugees and their host societies by focusing on refugees’ personal, professional, cultural, and entrepreneurial plans and goals. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Rumbidzai Chisenga SOUTH AFRICA and ZIMBABWE Program Manager, Mandela Institute for Development Studies (MINDS) Building the capacity of African youth to lead the continent’s social and economic progress. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Gabriela Galilea PARAGUAY CEO and Founder, Okimo Vision Ltd. Democratizing access to visual health and inclusive education through the creation of tools that help diagnose and treat visual and development conditions at a fraction of the current market price. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Ana Maria Gonzalez-Forero COLOMBIA Chief Sustainability Officer, Fundación por la Educación Multidimensional (FEM) Enabling inclusive development through participatory planning and design processes that allow diverse stakeholders to find mutual recognition in indigenous communities. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Hong Hoang VIETNAM Founder and Executive Director, CHANGE Mobilizing youth leaders to promote environmental preservation through communication, education, and community organizing. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Omezzine Khelifa TUNISIA Founder and CEO, Mobdiun – Creative Youth Inspiring youth to become peaceful and creative change leaders in Tunisia and throughout Africa. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Pavel Kounchev BULGARIA Co-founder, Managing Director, Time Heroes Foundation Co-founder; Chair of the Board, Fine Acts Foundation Developing creative solutions and digital tools to inspire civic engagement. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Peter Ndayihereje BURUNDI Community Engagement Program Manager, Village Health Works Improving community cohesion among people of all backgrounds by leveraging communal structures to improve health and economic outcomes. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Elvis Ndansi CAMEROON Founder and President, Unite for Health Foundation Improving access to basic health care in underserved communities in Cameroon. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Oluseun Onigbinde NIGERIA Lead Partner, BudgIT Working to simplify budgets and public finance documents to strengthen the capacity of citizens to hold governments accountable. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Vanessa Paranjothy SINGAPORE Co-Founder, Freedom Cups Changing mindsets and making periods a problem of the past by providing women in underprivileged communities with menstrual cups through a “buy one, give one” model. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt Trisha Shetty INDIA Founder and CEO, SheSays, India Advancing sustainable development through a gender-sensitive and youth-centric approach. Read Full Bio arrow_right_alt View more keyboard_arrow_down keyboard_arrow_down 12 Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu