Skip to main content Search Toggle Search Harvard University Provost's Office Vice Provost for International Affairs One Harvard, One World Worldwide Week at Harvard By the Numbers Social Feeds Administrative Support The World at Harvard Harvard in the World Join Us at Harvard HarvardWorldwide The World at Harvard Research Centers Harvard's campus-based international research centers promote interdisciplinary research and education about every region of the world, and on globally important topics. Research Centers Harvard's research centers are vibrant hubs of intellectual activity, funding research and study, organizing academic events, and building relationships with partners that lead to countless academic opportunities, from research collaborations to student internships. The University has an especially rich mix of international and area studies centers, which attract and provide resources for scholars and students at Harvard and around the world. All of the research centers listed here focus the majority of their work on global, international, or transnational issues and projects. Harvard Humanitarian Initiative The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative conducts research and education on the practice of humanitarian response worldwide. Its aim is to relieve human suffering in war and disaster by advancing the science and practice of humanitarian response. Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation The Roy and Lila Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation advances excellence and innovation in governance and public policy through research, education, and public discussion. Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies Founded in 1955, the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies aims to advance scholarship in all fields of Chinese studies at Harvard. The Fairbank Center sponsors seminars and conferences, supports faculty and student research, maintains Harvard’s research library on contemporary China, hosts visitors, and publishes new research. Region - Any -AfricaAsiaAustralia and OceaniaEuropeLatin America and CaribbeanMiddle East and North AfricaNorth AmericaGlobal School - Any -Harvard Business School (HBS)Harvard Chan School of Public Health (HSPH)Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS)Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD)Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE)Harvard Kennedy School of Government (HKS)Harvard Law School (HLS)Harvard Medical School (HMS)Harvard Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS)Inter-Faculty InitiativesAffiliates Alwaleed Islamic Studies Program The Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Islamic Studies Program is dedicated to... Read More Arnold Arboretum Founded as a public-private partnership between Harvard University and the... Read More Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation The Roy and Lila Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation... Read More Asia Center The Asia Center’s mission is to promote cross-national research on Asia at... Read More BASF Advanced Research Initiative at Harvard University The BASF Advanced Research Initiative at Harvard connects BASF researchers... Read More Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs The Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs is the hub of... Read More Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society The Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society aims to explore and... Read More Canada Program The Canada Program at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs... Read More Carr Center for Human Rights Policy The Carr Center for Human Rights Policy focuses on issues of human... Read More Center for African Studies The Harvard University Center for African Studies (CAS) seeks to expand... Read More Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics The Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics focuses on research, outreach... Read More Center for Green Buildings and Cities The Center for Green Buildings and Cities aims to transform the building... Read More Center for Health and the Global Environment The Center for Health and the Global Environment is a home for innovative... Read More Center for International Development The Center for International Development seeks to advance the... Read More Center for Jewish Studies The Center for Jewish Studies at Harvard University is the focal point at... Read More Center for Middle Eastern Studies The Center for Middle Eastern Studies works with faculty and students... Read More Center for Public Leadership Through teaching and research, the Center for Public Leadership at the... Read More Center on the Developing Child The mission of the Center on the Developing Child is to drive science-... Read More Center on the Legal Profession The Center on the Legal Profession seeks to contribute to the modern... Read More David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies The David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies works to increase... Read More Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies The mission of the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies is to... Read More Dumbarton Oaks Located in Washington, D.C., the Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and... Read More East Asian Legal Studies Founded in 1965, the East Asia Legal Studies program examines the law and... Read More Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies Founded in 1955, the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies aims to advance... Read More FXB Center for Health and Human Rights Working with academic partners, health and human rights practitioners, and... Read More Global Initiative The HBS Global Initiative manages the School's network of Global Research... Read More Harvard Australian Studies Committee The Committee on Australian Studies was established in 1976 with the... Read More Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies The Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies’ mission is to... Read More Harvard Chan School AIDS Initiative The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health AIDS Initiative (HAI) is... Read More Harvard China Fund The Harvard China Fund supports teaching and research by preparing... Read More Harvard China Project The Harvard China Project is an interdisciplinary research program on... Read More Harvard Global Health Institute The Harvard Global Health Institute seeks to identify and address broad... Read More Harvard Humanitarian Initiative The Harvard Humanitarian Initiative conducts research and education on the... Read More Harvard University Center for the Environment The Harvard University Center for the Environment encourages research and... Read More Harvard-Yenching Institute The Harvard-Yenching Institute is an independent foundation dedicated to... Read More Hutchins Center for African and African-American Research The Hutchins Center for African & African American Research supports... Read More Institute for Global Law and Policy The Institute for Global Law and Policy seeks to nurture innovative... Read More Korea Institute The Korea Institute is devoted to the support and development of Korean... Read More Lakshmi Mittal South Asia Institute The Lakshmi Mittal South Asia Institute engages faculty and students... Read More Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies Founded in 1969, the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies... Read More Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics The Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics... Read More Reischauer Institute of Japanese Studies Established in 1973 as the Japan Institute, the Edwin O. Reischauer... Read More Ukrainian Research Institute The Ukrainian Research Institute mission is to advance knowledge about... Read More Villa I Tatti Villa I Tatti, the Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance... Read More Weatherhead Center for International Affairs The Weatherhead Center for International Affairs supports research and... Read More World Languages From Afrikaans to Vietnamese and Arabic to Zulu, Harvard offers instruction in close to 100 languages. Student Organizations Harvard's students have founded and manage hundreds of organizations, including many that support international students or work on topics of worldwide concern. Student Organizations Harvard University-wide Harvard Argentine Student Society Harvard Arab Student Association Brazil Harvard-Wide Student Association Harvard Chinese Students and Scholars Association Harvard Colombian Student Society Harvard Ecuadorian Student Association Harvard Mexican Association of Students Harvard Pakistan Student Group Harvard India Student Group Harvard Italian Students Society Harvard Student Asian Pacific Coalition Harvard-wide Latino Student Alliance Harvard Association of Peruvian Students Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) GSAS International Socialists GSAS Harvard Korea Society Harvard Chinese Students and Scholars Association Harvard East Asia Society: A GSAS Student Group Harvard GSAS Colombian Society Harvard GSAS Graduate Student Canadian Club/ Groupe des Étudiants Canadiens de Cycle Supérieur de GSAS Harvard The Harvard GSAS Iranian Student Association Harvard GSAS Singaporean and Malaysian Association Harvard GSAS Taiwan Student Association Harvard Visual China: A GSAS Student Organization African and African American Studies (AAA) Graduate Student Forum EALC Social Committee (East Asian Languages and Literatures) Germanic Circle Harvard Buddhist Studies Forum Harvard Middle Eastern Cultural Association (HMECA) Harvard GSAS Latinx Student Association GSAS Anlin Taichi Wudao Association GSAS Harvard Argentine Tango Society Harvard Dragon Boat Team: A GSAS Student Organization Harvard GSAS Taekwondo Club Harvard GSAS Asian Baptist Student Koinonia Harvard GSAS Catholic Graduate Student Association Harvard GSAS Christian Community Harvard Business School (HBS) Africa Business Club African American Student Union Asia Business Club Asian-American Business Association Australian and New Zealand Society Canadian Club Central & Eastern European Club European Club German-Speaking Society Global Business Club Greater China Club Islamic Society Jewish Students Association LatAm Club Latino Student Organization Le Club des Francophones Middle East and North Africa Club South Asian Business Association Harvard College Africa Business and Investment Club African Students Association Albanian Students Association Armenian Students Association Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association (AAA) Asian American Brotherhood Asian American Christian Fellowship Asian American Dance Troupe (AADT) Harvard-Radcliffe Asian America Women's Association Asian Baptist Student Koinonia (ABSK) Association for U.S.-China Relations Australian Undergraduate Society (AUS) Baha'i Association Bhangra Brazilian Association Bulgarian Club Canadian Club Candela Dance Troupe Caribbean Club Harvard-Radcliffe Chado Society China Forum (HCCF) Chinese International Students Society (CISS) Chinese Music Ensemble (HCME) Chinese Students Association (CSA) Colombian Students Association Concilio Latino Cuban-American Undergraduate Student Association (CAUSA) Deepam Dharma Dutch Society Eritrean-Ethiopian Students Association European Business Group European Society Francophone Society French Club Friends of Chabad Fuerza Latina FUSIAN Gaongil: Modern Korean Studies Society German Club Half Asian People’s Association Harvard College in Asia Program Harvard Association Cultivating Inter-American Democracy Harvard Organization for Latin America (HOLA) Hellenic Society Hillel Hawaii Club Institute of Politics Intercollegiate Model United Nations Interfaith Forum International Negotiation Program International Relations Council (IRC) International Relations on Campus International Review Iranian Association Islamic Society (HIS) Israel Summit Italian Society Japan Initiative Japan Society Korean Association (KA) Korean International Student Association (KISA) Kuumba Singers Latinas Unidas Latino Men's Collective (LMC) Latinos in Health Careers Mariachi Veritas MENA Conference Harvard Model Congress Asia Harvard Model Congress Europe Harvard Model Congress Latin America Harvard Model Congress Middle East Harvard Model United Nations (HMUN) Harvard National Model United Nations (HNMUN) Nepali Students Association Nigerian Students Association Omo Naija Dance Troupe Organization of Asian American Sisters in Service Pakistani Students Association Palestine Solidarity Committee (PSC) Philippine Forum Polish Society Program for International Education (HPIE) Progressive Jewish Alliance (PJA) Project for Asian and International Relations (HPAIR) Recent Immigrant Term-Time Enrichment (RITE) (PBHA) Refugee Youth Summer Enrichment (PBHA) Romanian Association Russian Speakers Association Harvard College Students for Scholars at Risk Sikh Student Association Singaporean, Indonesia, and Malaysia Association (SIAMA) Society of Arab Students South African Society South Asian Association (SAA) South Asian Men's Collective (SAMC) South Asian Women's Collective South Slavic Society Students for Israel Taiwanese Cultural Society (TCS) Taiwan Leadership Conference TAMID Thai Society Turkish Student Association US-India Initiative Vietnamese Association Woodbridge International Society World Model United Nations (WorldMUN) Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) HMS/HSDM African Health and Advocacy Group HMS/HSDM International Student Organization Asian American Dental Association (AADA) HSDM Wampanoag Outreach Group Harvard Graduate School of Design (GSD) AASU (GSD African-American Student Union) Africa GSD Asia GSD Asia Real Estate Association Brazil GSD China GSD Code Without Frontiers Europe GSD Greece GSD Harvard East Asian Urban Forum India GSD Italian GSD Latin GSD Japan GSD JewSD Korea GSD Southeast Asia GSD Spain GSD GSD MEdiNA (Middle East and North Africa) Harvard Divinity School (HDS) Anglican/Episcopal Fellowship Buddhist Community Harambee: Students of African Descent Hindu Studies Colloquium-Junior Jewish Student Association Mokichi Okada Study Group Muslims Nuestra Voz Student Symposium for Decolonial Scholarship at HDS Students for Afghanistan Women of Color Collective Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) Black Student Union (BSU) Comunidad Latinx Education India Intiative Future Indigenous Educators Resisting Colonial Education (FIERCE) HGSE Christian Fellowship HGSE Jewish Student Association HGSE Muslim Student Group HGSE One Club HGSE Polyglot Circle International Higher Education and Disabilities (IHED) Latin America Education Forum (LAEF) MIXED - Multiracial Individuals eXchanging and Encouraging Dialogue Pan-Asian Coalition for Education (PACE) UndocuAllies Harvard Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) Engineers without Borders Harvard Kennedy School of Government (HKS) African Caucus Latinx Caucus Harvard Law School (HLS) African Law Association Asia Law Society Asian Pacific American Law Students Association Black Law Students Association Brazilian Students Association Canadian Law Students Association Global South Dialogue Human Rights and Business Association International Arbitration Law Students Association Italian Law Association Justice for Palestine Korean Association of Harvard Law School La Alianza Law and International Development Society Mexican Law Students Association Middle Eastern Law Students Association Native American Law Students Association Progressive Jewish Alliance South Asian Law Students Association Turkish Law Association Harvard Medical School (HMS) Global Surgery Student Alliance (GSSA) South Asian Medical and Dental Association (SAMDA) APAMSA (Asian Pacific American Medical Student Association) Latino Medical Student Association (LMSA) Harvard Longwood Muslims (HLM) Native American Health Organization (NAHO) Racial Justice Coalition Physicians for Human Rights Harvard Chan School of Public Health (HSPH) Brazilian Student Association at Harvard Chan (BRASACH) Harvard Chan Africa Health Students’ Forum Harvard Chan Jewish Student Association Harvard Chan Korean Student Group Harvard Chan Latin American Student Society Harvard Chan Nigerian Students Association Harvard Chan Student French Conversation Club Harvard Chan School ASEAN Student Organization Harvard Chan School Muslim Students Association Harvard Chan South Asian Students Organization Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Chinese Students and Scholars Association Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Student Group Latinx Students in Public Health Association at Harvard Chan Student Club of Japan at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health The Eh Team: The Officiale Harvard Chan School Student Canadian Club Yan Xin Qigong (YXG) Student Group at Harvard Chan Offerings by School Each of Harvard's degree-granting Schools offers a global perspective on research and education to its students and faculty. Offerings by School Harvard’s commitment to internationalism is realized in its individual Schools, where students and faculty teach, learn, and research. Each School, along with the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, integrates a global perspective into its curriculum and research agenda, with each taking its own approach, matched to the interests and objectives of its faculty and students. Business The mission of the Harvard Business School (HBS) is to educate leaders who make a difference in the world, and the study of leadership in global perspective is woven into the fabric of the School’s teaching and research. More than a third of HBS students are from outside the United States and, in recent years, 50% or more of the case studies written by HBS faculty members have focused on global companies or themes. Meanwhile, more than a dozen HBS student organizations have a global or international theme, and the School’s network of Global Research Centers and offices support faculty research and case writing, student experiences, and executive education across the globe. Nearly one third of HBS students are from outside the United States More than half of HBS faculty actively involved in international research or case writing The unique FIELD course takes all MBA students to an emerging market at the end of their first year for an immersive experience in which teams must develop a new product or service concept for a global partner organization. HBS and the Harvard Kennedy School offer a joint degree: Master’s of Business Administration and Master’s of Public Administration in International Development A network of nine HBS Global Research Centers and five offices support faculty case research and writing, student programs, and executive education. College Harvard College offers undergraduate students a broad education across numerous disciplines, and countless opportunities to pursue their research and educational interests around the world. In addition to classes that give all Harvard College students a sturdy grounding in key fields of study, Harvard College students can pursue intensive study in subjects ranging from East Asian Languages and Civilizations to Biology to Slavic Languages and Literature. In addition, Harvard College is committed to meeting the financial needs of all its admitted students, and international students are eligible for the same financial aid as U.S. students. 12% of Harvard College students are from outside the United States Harvard Summer School offers more than 20 courses each year taught outside the United States by Harvard faculty Harvard Office of International Education helps students plan experiences around the world during the regular academic term, and over the summer. International and area studies centers, which support a variety of academic programs for faculty and students, offer students opportunities to study, conduct research, and attain jobs or internships worldwide. Continuing Education Harvard’s Division of Continuing Education (DCE) extends the University’s teaching to every type of adult learner in every corner of the world. DCE students come from every culture, career background, and time zone, and range in age from 18 to 89. Offering degree programs, open enrollment courses that are both on-campus and online, DCE is at the forefront of Harvard’s efforts to reach the widest possible range of students across the globe. 13% of degree students are from outside the United States Offers Master’s of Liberal Arts, International Relations Offers a mix of on-campus, online, and hybrid courses Offers summer courses, including courses for high school students and study abroad courses, for both Harvard and non-Harvard students Offers graduate certificate programs in International Relations, International Security, Nuclear Deterrence, and Religions of the World Dental The Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) aims to develop and foster a community of global leaders who will advance oral and systemic health. HSDM faculty members are world leaders in the study and practice of dental medicine. Meanwhile, HSDM offers its students a variety of public health opportunities around Boston and across the globe, from working with Cambridge-based Dentists for Humanity to provide dental care to underserved populations worldwide, to pursuing international community-health opportunities during the later years of the DMD program. HSDM aims to integrate dentistry and medicine, and to train dental researchers and practitioners who will have a positive impact on oral health around the world. Design The Graduate School of Design (GSD) aims to educate students who will create a more beautiful, just, and coherent world through the study of the built environment. Nearly half of GSD students some from outside the United States and its diverse, world-class faculty is comprised of scholars and practitioners from every continent. A global approach to learning and to practice is at the heart of a GSD education, and essential to the work of most GSD graduates and faculty. 53% of GSD students are from outside the United States “Studio Abroad” program offers GSD students the opportunity to work with practitioners in their design firms, in a city outside the U.S., while continuing their regular course of study at the GSD. GSD’s Wimbledon House in London hosts the Richard Rogers Fellowship for the study of the built environment. Divinity The Harvard Divinity School educates scholars, teachers, ministers, and other professionals for religious leadership, service and study across the globe. Its aim is to help build a world in which people can live and work together across religious and cultural divides, and the School draws on its significant resources in global religious studies to expand its students’ understanding of the religions of the world. 14% of Harvard Divinity School degree students come from outside the U.S. Center for the Study of World Religions has promoted study of the world’s religions since its founding in 1960. Summer Language Program focuses on languages relevant to theological and religious studies, and is open to any student with an undergraduate (first) degree from an accredited institution. HDS degree programs focus on the study of a wide variety of religious traditions. Education The Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) has a diverse, increasingly international student body whose studies are grounded in the HGSE belief that education is a most pressing issue of our time. HGSE research and degree programs provide opportunities for students and scholars who wish to understand the major challenges and solutions to education worldwide. 20% of degree students at HGSE come from outside the U.S. Master’s degree in International Education Policy explores some of the most challenging issues facing educators and students worldwide. The Center for the Developing Child has developed two “innovation clusters” with local partners in Brazil and Mexico to address challenges that confront children and families facing adversity. Project Zero’s Interdisciplinary and Global Studies program is an ensemble of research projects designed to inform scholars and educators about preparing youth to understand and address global challenges. The Global Education Innovation Initiative is a 10-country research-practice consortium to improve education around the world. Engineering The John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard (SEAS) aims to discover, design, and create novel technologies and approaches to societal challenges. SEAS faculty cross disciplines and geography in their work, addressing challenges from air quality in Brazil and China to the development of effective and affordable medical devices for patients worldwide. SEAS students thus have unparalleled opportunities to engage in interdisciplinary and international scholarship, giving them the tools and experience they need to address the global engineering challenges of the 21st century. SEAS research centers and programs like the BASF Advanced Research Initiative, the Center for the Environment, and the Harvard China Project all engage in research with global partners to address global challenges. SEAS degree programs and research projects are often global by their very nature, giving SEAS students and scholars numerous opportunities to engage in academic work abroad. Government The Harvard Kennedy School of Government (HKS) aims to train dedicated public servants who can improve the way the world works, equipping its students to solve the world’s most wrenching problems and address seemingly intractable problems. Nearly half of HKS students come from outside the United States, and the research and teaching interests of its students and faculty are as wide-ranging, in both subject and geography, as the student body itself. Almost every research center at HKS touches on global issues, and a global perspective is integrated deeply into the School’s curriculum and various degree programs. More than 45% of degree students at HKS are from outside the U.S. The Master’s degree in Public Administration-International Development is designed to prepare the next generation of leaders in international development. The Mason Fellows Program brings mid-career professionals from around the world to HKS to complete a Master’s degree in Public Administration. HKS offers a variety of joint degree programs with an international focus: Master’s of Business Administration (M.B.A., Harvard Business School) and Master’s of Public Administration in International Development (M.P.A.-I.D., Harvard Kennedy School) Juris Doctor (J.D., Harvard Law School) and Master’s of Public Administration in International Development (M.P.A.-I.D., Harvard Kennedy School) Mid-Career Master’s of Public Administration (M.C./M.P.A., Harvard Kennedy School) and Master’s in International Affairs or Development Studies (The Graduate Institute, Geneva) Graduate School of Arts and Sciences The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS) offers more than 60 Ph.D. programs, in traditional fields like philosophy and physics as well newer interdisciplinary programs like Environmental Science and Engineering (offered in conjunction with Harvard’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, or SEAS) or Neuroscience (HMS). More than a third of GSAS students are from outside the United States, and students with specific interest in international issues have ample opportunity to pursue those interests across GSAS’s many departments and degree programs. More than a third of GSAS students are from outside the U.S. In addition to the Ph.D., GSAS offers several Master’s degree programs with an international focus, such as the Master’s in Middle Eastern Studies or South Asia Studies Students from outside Harvard can apply to take courses at GSAS as Special Students, while advanced graduate students from institutions other than Harvard can conduct research at Harvard as a GSAS Visiting Fellow. Law Harvard Law School (HLS) has a commitment to international and comparative law that sets it apart from many of its peers. Among other signs of this commitment, HLS requires all first-year JD students to enroll in a course on the subject, its Master’s and Doctoral degrees have a strong global component, and the International Legal Studies staff facilitates numerous international opportunities each year for all of HLS’s many international students. More importantly, faculty experts on U.S. law at HLS increasingly bring international and comparative law into their work, while those who specialize in international legal studies bring this expertise to bear on U.S. law and other disciplines, meaning that HLS students will experience international legal studies no matter their particular course of study. Nearly one quarter of Harvard Law School degree students come from outside the U.S. A variety of HLS research centers and programs have a global or transnational focus, from the Human Rights Program to the Institute for Global Law and Policy to the Program on International Financial Systems. HLS International Legal Studies staff links students and faculty with a variety of international opportunities The Master of Laws (LL.M.) program includes roughly 180 students from more than 70 countries with a variety of legal systems. The Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) program is home to roughly 60 students from more than 30 different countries. Offers joint J.D.-LL.M. degree program with University of Cambridge. Medical Focusing on global programs that are transformative, sustainable, and reciprocal – programs, in other words, that benefit both Harvard Medical School (HMS) and its partners – HMS has developed a broad and diverse portfolio of international programs for its faculty and students. The Bertarelli Program in Translational Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, which provides fellowships allowing HMS students to study at Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) and EPFL students to study at HMS; and the HMS Center for Global Health Delivery in Dubai, which promotes education and collaborative research on health issues of global concern, are just two examples of HMS’s global reach and impact. 19% of HMS degree students are from outside the U.S. HMS’s primary degree program, the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), provides a pathway for medical licensure in the United States, and thus attracts a primarily American student body. However, HMS is home to more than a third of the total number of international postdocs and scholars at Harvard at any one time, and the School provides numerous opportunities for faculty and students to conduct research and teaching activities abroad. Approximately a quarter of all research projects at HMS have an international component. The Department of Global Health and Social Medicine organizes global health activities at HMS, including international medical education experiences, with the aim of improving the practice, delivery, and development of medical care and health policies worldwide. The Master of Medical Sciences in Global Health Delivery (MMsc-GHD) offers a cross-University course of study that equips students with the tools needed to conduct medical policy research in low-resource settings. Public Health The goal of improving public health is by nature a global endeavor and the students and faculty of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health pursue their mission of improving human health on every continent. With degree programs like the Master of Science in Global Health and Population or the interdisciplinary concentration in nutrition and global health, with research centers like the Harvard Global Health Institute and the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, and with a student body that is more than 40% international, the Harvard Chan School conducts research, teaches, and learns from partners and communities around the world. 37% of Harvard Chan School degree students are from outside the U.S. Most degree programs at the Harvard Chan School are global by their nature, but the School offers a number of degree and non-degree programs that explicitly have an international focus, including The Master of Science in Global Health and Population Interdisciplinary concentrations in Humanitarian Studies, Ethics, and Human Rights; and Nutrition and Global Health Non-degree programs in Global Health Delivery and Global Infectious Diseases Like degree programs, most research centers at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health are global by nature, but several have a specific emphasis on global themes, including: University-wide centers: François Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights, Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard Global Health Institute, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative School-wide and Department centers: Harvard Chan School AIDS Initiative, Center for Global Tobacco Control, Center for Health and the Global Environment The Harvard Chan School India Center supports the research and educational work of Harvard Chan School faculty and students in India by building partnerships and new strategic relationships. Radcliffe Institute The mission of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study (RIAS) is to support creative work in all disciplines – humanities, sciences, social sciences, and the arts – and to share that work with academics and the public alike. The RIAS Fellows Program brings 50 fellows from around the world to Harvard each year to study, write, and engage in artistic work. Meanwhile, the topics of the Institute’s various research initiatives range broadly, as one might examine 21st-century urbanism while another explores how native and indigenous peoples around the world have acquired and expressed political power. In all of these endeavors, the RIAS aims to engage scholars and the public in dialogue about some of the world’s most interesting and complex challenges, and to create a borderless intellectual community. Museums Harvard's art museums feature works from around the globe. Its museums of science and culture preserve and teach about human civilizations and the history of science and the world. Museum Collections Harvard’s museums preserve and display art and artifacts that showcase the talents, the history, and the heritage of human civilizations across time and distance. The Harvard Art Museums play a leading role in the development of the history and conservation of art worldwide, and have been dedicated since they were founded to advancing learning at Harvard and around the world. Harvard’s Museums of Science and Culture aim to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the natural world, science, and human cultures. The Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University is an international center for the study of plants, housing a living collection of trees, shrubs, and vines that is one of the most comprehensive of its kind in the world. A public-private partnership between Harvard and the City of Boston, the Arboretum’s 281 acres are free and open to public year-round, helping to deepen understanding of the world’s plants, horticulture, and biodiversity. A full list of Harvard’s museums – those with a global focus and otherwise – can be found here. Stories Harvard students and scholars learn from colleagues around the world, and with colleagues around the world, in a constant, mutually beneficial exchange of ideas and actions. These stories provide just a few examples of that ongoing exchange and its impact on Harvard and the world. 200 countries and from every background 8,760 trips abroad in 2018 for research, study, and more 10,941 international students and scholars at Harvard this year Office of the Vice Provost for International Affairs Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center Suite 850 1350 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, Massachusetts 01238 USA Contact Us Office of the Provost Harvard University Accessibility Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College