Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Advisors & Supporters Breadcrumb Home Advisors & Supporters See Also In addition to our staff and project teams, Columbia World Projects receives crucial support and input from two groups of volunteer leaders: The President’s Council and the Advisory Committee. Columbia World Projects is also supported financially by a cohort of generous donors. President’s Council The President’s Council is a group of senior advisors to Lee C. Bollinger, President and Seth Low Professor of the University, and Columbia World Projects. President’s Council members consider Columbia World Projects’ overall direction, recommend focus areas and contribute to project funding. The current members of the President's Council are: Armen A. Avanessians, Chair Abdulrahman R. Al-Rashed Abigail Black Elbaum Mark Gallogly Keith Fitzgerald Goggin George Jiang Ann F. Kaplan Mark E. Kingdon Jonathan S. Lavine James Leitner Andrónico Luksic Azmi Taha Mikati Adam N. Pritzker Vuslat Doğan Sabancı Neil Shen Esta Eiger Stecher Timothy A. Steinert Richard E. Witten Ex Officio, Columbia University: Alexander Halliday Director, The Earth Institute Amy Hungerford Executive Vice President for Arts and Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Shannon Marquez Dean of Undergraduate Global Engagement Safwan Masri Executive Vice President, Global Centers Jeannette Wing Avanessians Director of the Data Science Institute Advisory Committee The Advisory Committee, a group of Columbia faculty and practitioners from outside the university, provides hands-on, strategic direction to Columbia World Projects. This includes recommending which project ideas merit further development and identifying key issues and potential challenges that could arise during project development and implementation. The current members of the Advisory Committee are: Armen A. Avanessians CIO, Quantitative Investment Strategies, Goldman Sachs Asset Management Jared Cohen CEO, Jigsaw; Adjunct Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations Nabila El-Bassel Professor, Willma and Albert Musher Professor of Social Work, Columbia University Mary-Ann Etiebet Lead & Executive Director, Merck for Mothers Farah Griffin Ransford Professor of English & Comparative Literature and African-American Studies, Columbia University Malo Hutson Associate Professor of Architecture, Planning and Preservation; Director, PhD in Urban Planning Program in the Faculty of Architecture, Planning and Preservation, Columbia University Olatunde Johnson Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law, Columbia Law School Boyana Konforti Director of Scientific Strategy & Development, Howard Hughes Medical Institute Nicholas Lemann Pulitzer-Moore Professor of Journalism; Director, Columbia Global Reports, Columbia University Jack Snyder Robert and Renée Belfer Professor of International Relations, Columbia University Nicholas Tatonetti Associate Professor of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University Sheena Wright President & CEO, United Way of New York City Former Members: Members of our Advisory Committee serve three-year terms, although some members have left prior to completing their term due to job changes. Wally Adeyemo Salman Ahmed Rob Berschinski Sarah Cleveland Michael Doyle Wafaa El-Sadr Christopher Fomunyoh Jacob Hacker Shamus Khan Jeremy Konyndyk Jack Lew Rob Malley Tara McGuinness Maria Victoria Murillo Alondra Nelson Kate Orff G. Michael Purdy Anthony Shorris Maya Tolstoy James Valentini Gordana Vunjak-Novakovic Donors Columbia World Projects thanks the following donors who have made commitments to support our work: Abdulrahman R. Al-Rashed Armen A. Avanessians Xue Fang & Yan Huo Estate of Leon W. Gibson George Jiang Mark E. Kingdon Kresge Foundation Jonathan S. Lavine & Jeannie B. Lavine The Mikati Foundation Robert Chee-Siong Ng Adam N. Pritzker David E. Shaw Lu Sun Swiss Re Foundation Bruno Z. Wu Obama Foundation Scholars Program Faculty Partners The Obama Foundation Scholars Program partners with faculty across Columbia University to serve as advisors and workshop instructors for Obama Foundation Scholars. Faculty partners are selected for their subject matter expertise to provide Scholars with new insights and perspectives to inform Scholars’ work. They teach a variety of workshops designed to strengthen Scholars’ capacity to lead and accelerate the impact of their work. Columbia World Projects thanks the following faculty members: Lisa Anderson Joanne Bauer Sally E. Findley Yasmine Ergas Beth Fisher-Yoshida Lynn Freedman Leymah Gbowee Bill Grueskin Jeffrey Henig Sarah Holloway Radhika Iyengar Wilmot James Sarah Knuckey Upmanu Lall Cindy M. Lott Eugenia McGill Terry McGovern Denise Milstein Priyanka Motaparthy David Park Andrea Prat Saskia Sassen Renata Schiavo Elsa Stamatopoulou Bruce Usher Paige West Former Columbia World Projects Fellows Columbia World Projects thanks the following fellows who have contributed to our work. Orriel Richardson Hollie Russon Gilman Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu