Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search The 2022 World Fellows Get to know this remarkable group of leaders and innovators. Read More + Abdi Ismail, 2021 World Fellow Working in a volatile conflict area, Abdi Ismail honed his passion for helping vulnerable communities. Read More + Jessica Faieta, 2006 World Fellow Jessica Faieta’s long career with the UN gives her hope for the future of global development. Read More + Elsa D’Silva, 2018 World Fellow Indian gender activist Elsa D’Silva is putting gender on the agenda with her Safecity platform. Read More + Alex Muñoz Wilson, 2019 World Fellow Read a Q&A with Alex, who recently returned from an expedition to the Patagonian fjords as part of his work for National Geographic. Read More + The 2022 World Fellows Get to know this remarkable group of leaders and innovators. Read More + Abdi Ismail, 2021 World Fellow Working in a volatile conflict area, Abdi Ismail honed his passion for helping vulnerable communities. Read More + Jessica Faieta, 2006 World Fellow Jessica Faieta’s long career with the UN gives her hope for the future of global development. Read More + Elsa D’Silva, 2018 World Fellow Indian gender activist Elsa D’Silva is putting gender on the agenda with her Safecity platform. Read More + Alex Muñoz Wilson, 2019 World Fellow Read a Q&A with Alex, who recently returned from an expedition to the Patagonian fjords as part of his work for National Geographic. Read More + APPLY TO BECOME A WORLD FELLOW Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow 2022 World Fellows The Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program We enable extraordinary individuals, from across the globe and from diverse disciplines, to increase their capacity to make the world a better place. Each year, the Program selects a diverse cohort of World Fellows to spend four months together in residence at Yale University to grow intellectually, share knowledge, strengthen skills and expand networks. World Fellows are people of character, integrity, energy and talent. They are dynamic, creative, disruptive and innovative. They are selfless leaders who serve, inspire and motivate others. They have demonstrated impact, they are on the rise in their careers, and they are ambitious to grow to their full potential. Established in 2002, the Program now has a network of nearly 400 World Fellows contributing to their communities in 91 countries, connected to each other and to Yale. Jackson to launch new center on leadership Read More Jackson to launch new center on leadership Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap