Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search Common Questions Please read through these questions and answers before contacting our office or starting on your application. If, after carefully reading this page, your question is unanswered, you can get in touch with World Fellows Program staff. ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS Am I a competitive candidate? To determine if you would be a competitive candidate for the World Fellows Program, please take a look at the biographies of previous Fellows and the application information page. Admission to the program is extremely competitive; we receive several thousand applications for the limited number of fellowships awarded each year. Please do not email the program to ask if you are eligible or a competitive candidate as we cannot prescreen applicants and do not provide individual feedback. Do I need to be a certain age to qualify ? The World Fellows Program does not require applicants to be a specific age. Please note, however, that the program is designed for aspiring leaders with a demonstrable track record of success. The youngest applicant ever accepted was 27 years old and the average age of a World Fellow is 39. Does the World Fellows Program require test scores exhibiting proficiency in the English language? The program does not require TOEFL or IELTS test scores as part of the application process. Should an applicant progress to the final stages of selection, his/her English fluency will be assessed during an interview. Must I be fluent in English? Yes, applicants must be fluent in English. Fellows must be able to read and understand complex academic texts, give oral presentations in front of small and large audiences, and build professional and personal relationships with colleagues and distinguished guests – in English. Does the fellowship accept students or academics? The World Fellows Program does not accept full-time students or full-time academics. The fellowship is designed for non-academic practitioners. If your primary occupation is student or scholar and you are interested in spending time at Yale, please contact the academic department that aligns with your academic or research interests. Does the fellowship provide scholarships or financial support to students who wish to attend Yale University? No, we do not offer any type of financial aid or scholarships to students wishing to enroll in a degree granting program at Yale. Questions regarding financial aid should be directed to the school at Yale to which you are applying for admission. Participants in the World Fellows Program receive a compensation package, which is outlined on our application page. APPLICATION QUESTIONS If I have previously applied to the World Fellows Program, may I apply again? Yes, applicants who have applied to a previous year’s program may submit a new application for the current cycle. However, please note that every year our pool of candidates is increasingly competitive. If you choose to reapply to our program, be sure to highlight your additional achievements of the past year(s). If I have previously applied to the program, may I re-submit the previous year’s application? No. If you choose to reapply to the World Fellows Program, you must submit a new application with an updated résumé/CV, new letters of recommendation, and new personal statement. No application materials can be transferred from previous years. When will I learn of the final decision on my application? Final decisions will be sent to all applicants, both successful and unsuccessful, via email by the end of April. The program cannot release the status of your application on an individual basis before this time. Please be sure to keep your application up-to-date with your most recent email address. If I am not selected, may I solicit feedback on my application? Unfortunately, it is not possible to provide feedback on individual applications due to the large number of applications received. LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION QUESTIONS How does the World Fellows Program solicit letters of recommendation from my references? Within the online application there is a “Recommendations” section. There you will enter and submit the names and email addresses of three references. Emails will automatically be generated and sent from our system to your recommenders, requesting that they submit letters of recommendation electronically on your behalf. You are responsible for ensuring that all three references have received this email and submit their letters of recommendation by the application deadline. Please allow your recommenders adequate time to compose and upload their letters. How do recommenders submit their letters of recommendation? Your recommenders will receive an automatically generated email requesting that they submit a letter on your behalf . The emails your references receive contain a link which will allow them to upload their letters of recommendation directly into your application. You will receive a notification each time a letter of recommendation is received. What is the deadline for letters of recommendation? Letters of recommendation should be received by the application deadline. Letters of recommendation received after the application deadline will be accepted; however we cannot guarantee that they will be reviewed with your other application materials. The applicant is responsible for ensuring that references receive the email soliciting a letter of recommendation and submit their letters in a timely manner. What is the typical length of a letter of recommendation? The typical length of letters of recommendation is one to two pages. May recommenders write letters of recommendation in languages other than English? The Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program only accepts letters of recommendation in English. You may need to pay for translation services if your nominator or reference is unable to submit a letter in English. May recommenders submit a hard copy or e-mail their letter? No, for security reasons, the program will only accept letters of recommendation which are directly uploaded through the link provided in the email sent to your recommender. NOMINATION QUESTIONS Must I be nominated, or may I just apply? You do not need be nominated in order to apply to the program. The program gives no preference to either nominated or self-applying applicants. Applicants interested in applying to the program should proceed directly to the online application. Please do not nominate yourself. Multiple nominations do not increase your chances of being accepted. What is the role of the “nominator?” Applicants are not required to have a “nominator.” Nominators bring to the attention of the Program qualified candidates who may not be aware of the Program. A nominator may be from any country, and does not need to have an affiliation with Yale University. May I nominate myself? No. We do not accept self-nominations. Applicants interested in applying to the program should proceed directly to the online application. May I have multiple nominators? Yes, however it does not improve one’s chances of being selected as a World Fellow. May my nominator serve as one of my references? Yes, your nominator may serve as one of your recommenders. You must enter his or her name and email address into your application as a recommender, and then he or she will receive an email soliciting a letter of recommendation. If your nominator has already submitted a letter of nomination for you and wishes to use this letter of nomination as a letter of recommendation, he or she must submit it a second time via the link provided to recommenders. May family members act as nominators and/or references? Family members may act as nominators and/or references. However, please note that references, in particular, should be people with whom you have interacted on a professional basis and who can keenly evaluate your career progression and potential. PROGRAMMATIC QUESTIONS Is the fellowship degree-granting? No, the World Fellows Program does not offer admission to Yale University and does not award an academic diploma. The fellowship is not a master’s or Ph.D. program. Fellows do not receive academic credit or a transcript from Yale University. What are the dates of the program? The program begins in mid-August and runs through mid-December. Fellows are expected to remain in residence at Yale for the entire duration of the program. If I am selected, what are the time demands of the program? The program is extremely demanding of Fellows’ time. Fellows are expected to participate in the Seminar, skill building sessions, and University classes during the day, and in presentations, dinners with distinguished speakers, meetings with students and networking events several evenings each week. In addition, Fellows may be scheduled to travel for several days at a time over the course of the fellowship. It is a full-time commitment. If I am selected, how much does it cost to participate in the program? World Fellows do not pay tuition or fees of any kind to Yale University. Fellows do receive a living stipend, housing, travel reimbursement and health insurance. Do the families of World Fellows usually accompany them to New Haven for the duration of the program? This is a decision that each World Fellow makes in consultation with family members and in consideration of multiple personal and professional factors. There are a variety of ways for family members to explore their new home and engage with the New Haven and Yale communities. While the program is intensive and includes regular evening commitments as well as occasional overnight trips, World Fellows who bring children to New Haven are able to participate fully. Program staff provide World Fellows with information on school and childcare arrangements, with housing compatible for their family’s needs, and with immigration support for eligible family members. YALE/NEW HAVEN QUESTIONS Where can I find more information about Yale and New Haven? Yale University is one of the oldest and most prestigious universities in the world. Please visit the Yale website for information about the university and the many opportunities it offers. New Haven is a vibrant city located midway between New York City and Boston. Yale maintains a comprehensive website with information about New Haven. Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow APPLICATIONS The World Fellows program is not currently accepting applications. Click below to be notified when the application for the 2023 program becomes available. Get Notified Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap