Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content May 24, 2022 Columbia Faculty Invited to Apply for Social Impact Funding Opportunities News Breadcrumb Home News & Media Columbia Faculty Invited to Apply for Social Impact Funding Opportunities Faculty from across the university are encouraged to submit proposals for projects that address critical issues that affect people across the course of their lives. Columbia World Projects (CWP) today announced the Columbia World Projects Impact Awards, a new funding opportunity for projects led by Columbia faculty that aim to achieve social impact and improve people’s lives. The awards will support bold ideas and solutions. “The Columbia World Projects Impact Awards are part of our efforts to help realize what President Lee C. Bollinger calls the Fourth Purpose, advancing human welfare and confronting the great challenges of our time,” said Wafaa El-Sadr, the director of CWP. “We encourage Columbia faculty from all disciplines and across schools, institutes and centers to apply for this funding opportunity by offering their innovative ideas and solutions to better support the resilience of people and communities.” This call solicits projects focused on issues that affect people across the course of their lives, such as maternal and child health, early childhood development, the well-being of youth, longevity, and aging. There are two levels of awards: $750,000 to $5,000,000 over two to five years (maximum $1,000,000 per year), or $25,000-50,000 per year over a period of up to two years. Projects can be centered around launching new initiatives or scaling and accelerating existing projects. In addition to funding, selected teams will receive project management, training, evaluation, and partnership and communications support from Columbia World Projects. Awardees will be announced and activities launched in fall 2022. The deadline to submit a final proposal is July 19, 2022. Applicants are required to register their interest in submitting a project proposal by June 14, 2022. To learn more and to begin the proposal process, visit the Columbia World Projects Impact Awards information page. Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu