Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Middle East Explore Other Regions By the Numbers 125 Students from Region 171 Scholars from Region 571 Alumni in Region Yale president receives honorary degree from University of Haifa Find out more Middle East Callout Boxes MacMillan Program in Iranian Studies The program in Iranian studies promotes study of Iran, Afghanistan, and the Persianate cultural sphere, with emphasis on regional and international affairs, domestic political developments as well as society, history, religion, art, art history, culture, law, medicine and public health, economy, and the environment. Find out more Yale Babylonian Collection Founded in 1911 by Laffan Professor of Assyriology, Albert T. Clay, the collection comprises over 45,000 items including cuneiform tablets, cylinder seals, and other artifacts. More... Middle East Legal Studies Seminar The Middle East Legal Studies Seminar (MELSS) brings together leading practitioners, judges, and legal academics from across the Middle East to meet yearly with Yale Law School faculty and students. More Middle East News Related News 02/24/21 Neuroscientist Strittmatter to Receive King Faisal Prize for Medicine Stephen M. Strittmatter, MD, PhD, Vincent Coates Professor of Neurology and professor of neuroscience, has been named a laureate of the 2021 King Faisal Prize for Medicine for his work in regenerative medicine in neurological conditions. The King Faisal Foundation, e... 11/21/19 Is water the key to peace between Palestine and Israel? 11/14/19 Senior is first Yale student from Syria to win a Rhodes Scholarship 07/17/19 Study examines effects of genes and resilience on Syrian refugee youth A new study demonstrates the influence of genetic factors and resilience — the resources and capacities for overcoming adversity — on changes in levels of psychosocial stress and mental health for Syrian refugee youth who experienced war and forced displacement. &... 06/19/19 Strengthening Palliative Care in Israel A health care landscape without palliative and hospice care in the United States is still within living memory. Florence Wald, the fourth dean of YSN, introduced these concepts to Yale and the country in the mid-1960s. Decades later, other nations around the world are also ex... View All News Middle East Resource List Search Listings Search Resources Academics & Research Ancient Art Ancient Christianity Babylonian Collection Conflict, Resilience, and Health Program – MacMillan Center Ethnicity Race and Migration Genocides Studies Program Islamic Studies Judaic Studies Languages Taught at Yale Middle East Studies Near East Library Collection Order, Conflict, and Violence, Program on - MacMillan Center Program on Refugees, Forced Displacement, and Humanitarian Responses Alumni Regional Alumni Clubs Yale Alumni Magazine Students AIESEC Arab Students’ Association Human Rights & Development Law Journal, Yale International Relations Association Inc., Yale International Students Organization Journal of International Affairs, Yale MacMillan Center Initiative on Religion, Politics, and Society Magevet Middle Eastern Resolution through Education, Action, and Dialogue at Yale OneVoice, Yale Peace and Dialogue Leadership Initiative Yale College Friends of Israel Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility