Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search Get Involved Student Liaisons Get Involved Another remarkable aspect of the World Fellows Program is the accessibility it affords Yale students to the Fellows themselves. Student Liaisons are mentored by World Fellows, working closely with them throughout the fall semester and beyond. For anyone looking to work directly with a global leader with a passion or interest in international affairs, travel, cultural exchange, or global impact, the opportunity to become a Student Liaison is one you won’t want to pass up. Access and exposure to these highly-accomplished and inspiring human beings often creates life changing and career inspiring experiences. Even attending a World Fellows event can be moving, memorable, and eye-opening. Yale faculty members often invite World Fellows to serve as guest speakers in their classrooms. World Fellows offer a fresh, on-the-ground perspective on a variety of issues, enlivening class discussions. Learn more about getting involved below: Student Liaisons + EVENTS + CONTACT A FELLOW + Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow EVENTS CALENDAR Keep an eye on our events calendar for more opportunities to learn about Fellows’ work. Learn more MAILING LIST Add yourself to our mailing list to receive event invitations directly in your inbox. Subscribe Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap