Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and China Home Yale and China Yale and China Slideshow Photos of Yale and China events. Yale University enjoys the distinction of having the deepest relationship with China of any university in the United States with ties dating back to 1835. Yung Wing became the first person from China to earn a degree from an American university when he graduated from Yale College in 1854. Yale and China’s collaborations and programs stand as examples of how global universities are educating leaders and advancing the frontiers of knowledge, not simply for their own countries, but also for the entire world. This unique relationship has grown dramatically stronger over the years through joint educational and research projects, student and faculty exchange programs, and an ever-increasing number of Chinese students and scholars at Yale. These student exchanges have developed cross-cultural understanding, and joint research has led to groundbreaking discoveries. The Yale Alumni network thrives with over 1,300 alumni living in China. There are regional Yale Alumni Clubs in Beijing, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and Shenzhen. Yale operates joint research centers and collaborations at Fudan University, Tsinghua University, and Shanghai Jiaotong University. Research collaborations are conducted in the fields of climate science, health policy, immunology, sociology, and urban development, among others. Yale also has developed and continues to develop dual degree programs and other academic exchanges in partnership with key Chinese universities. These include: Tsinghua-Yale Dual Degree Program Tsinghua School of Environment and Yale School of the Environment launched a dual degree program in the Fall 2015 SJTU-Yale Dual Degree Program Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Yale School of Public Health launched a dual degree program in the Fall 2016 PKU-Yale Clinical Elective Rotation Program Yale School of Medicine and Peking University Health Center launched the joint clinical elective rotation program ZJU-Yale Dual Degree Program Zhejiang University and Yale School of Public Health launched a dual degree program in May 2017 Fudan-Yale Cultural Sociology Research Center Yale’s MacMillan Center and Fudan University established this joint center focused on cultural sociology research CSC-Yale Ph.D Degree Program YSPH launched a new Ph.D program sponsored by China Scholarship Council – Fall 2017 Central South University-Yale Dual Degree Program Central South University (CSU) and YSPH launched a dual degree program in 2019 Tsinghua-Yale Dual Degree Program Tsinghua University and YSPH launched a dual degree program in 2020 Yale provides a range of opportunities for students from China to take classes with Yale students including summer courses and formal exchange programs. During the summer, Yale offers special programs on campus for students from five Chinese universities. In addition, selected undergraduates from Hong Kong University can attend Yale during the academic year through the Yale Visiting International Student Program (Y-VISP), an honors program designed for undergraduate students from partner institutions. The China Scholarship Council–Yale World Scholars Program in the Biological and Biomedical Sciences started in 2006 recruits top graduates from nine premier institutions in China for enrollment in Yale’s renowned Program in Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS). The CSC-Yale World Scholars Program in Public Health was founded in 2017 to recruit students for study at the Yale School of Public Health. Both programs bring graduates from leading universities in China to Yale for graduate studies in order to train leaders who can contribute significantly to research in China. Hundreds of Yale students travel to China each year to participate in study abroad programs or conduct independent research. There are a number of programs for Yale students in China including: the Richard U. Light Fellowship, which funds Yale students for intensive language study in China; the Yale International Internship Program, which provides undergraduates with summer internship placements in China and other countries; the Fox International Fellowship program, which is a direct two-way student exchange partnership with Fudan University, and; the Council on East Asian Studies Field Research Grants, which provide funding for Yale graduate students in the Arts and Sciences to conduct research in China. Yale and China CTA One Two China-Yale Advanced University Leadership The program brings together senior administrators from China’s leading universities to introduce models of structure, organization and best practices they might adapt to their own needs. Learn more Yale Center Beijing Opened in the fall of 2014 and housed in a 16,500-square-foot space in the Chaoyang District of Beijing, Yale Center Beijing is an important convening space and intellectual hub. Learn more Yale and China CTA Three Four Yale Law School’s Paul Tsai China Law Center The center sponsors programs for advancing the rule of law in China and for the study and advancement of U.S.-China relations more generally. Learn more MacMillan Center The MacMillan Center’s Council on East Asian Studies is Yale’s interdisciplinary hub for the study of all aspects of East Asia and its constituent peoples, cultures, and societies Learn more Yale and China Newsletter Focus on China Newsletter To receive updates about Yale and China efforts, subscribe to our newsletter. Subscribe Read previous issue of the newsletter Yale and China News Yale and China News 05/31/22 Yale Child Study Center project to examine experiences of racial aggression toward early education providers In order to better understand the degree and nature of anti-Asian racial aggression and trauma experienced by Asian-American early educators during the COVID-19 pandemic, Yale Child Study Center research faculty members Tong Liu and Walter Gilliam have launched the Asian-Ameri... 11/03/21 China-Yale Advanced University Leadership Program focuses on innovation and entrepreneurship On October 27, leaders of nine top universities in China met over Zoom with Yale officials and faculty to share perspectives on creating innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystems on their campuses. Tsinghua University hosted the event, which was the most recent convening of t... 05/18/21 Neither here nor there: Yan Phou Lee in America In 1873, 12-year-old Yan Phou Lee left China to study in the United States. Over the next 50 years he became a popular orator, the first Asian American to publish a book in English, a fierce opponent of anti-Chinese prejudice, and a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1887 &... 04/30/21 Peter Salovey participates in The Global Forum of University Presidents A consensus was released by China's Tsinghua University on Saturday to promote closer cooperation with global universities. The consensus highlighted the importance of building more open, integrative and resilient universities all over the world. During the Global Forum o... 04/21/21 Yale and Tongji University partner to present ‘Sustainable Land Development’ webinar A joint webinar co-organized by Tongji University and Yale focused on the topic ‘Sustainable Land development’ took place on April 15, 2021. Professor Li Fengting, Executive Deputy Dean of UNEP-Tongji Institute of Environment for Sustainable Development, delivered ... View All News Yale and China Resources Search Listings Search Resources Academics & Research Asian Art Asian Religions China Records Project Council on East Asian Studies Ethnicity Race and Migration Yale InterAsia Initiative Yale-Shanghai Jiao Tong University Joint Center for Biostatistics Alumni Regional Alumni Clubs Yale Alumni Magazine Yale Club Hong Kong Yale Club Shanghai Yale Club Taipei Yale-China Association Students ACCENT: The undergraduate multilingual magazine at Yale AIESEC Asian American Cultural Center at Yale Association of Chinese Students and Scholars at Yale (ACSSY) C# Chinese Acapella China Hands Magazine Chinese Adopted Siblings Program for Youth Global China Connection Human Rights & Development Law Journal, Yale International Students Organization Journal of International Affairs, Yale Phoenix Dance Troupe Richard U. Light Fellowship Wushu, Yale Yale International Relations Association Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility