Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Application Not surprisingly, admission to the World Fellows program is highly competitive. We receive thousands of applications from around the globe for an extremely limited number of fellowships. Each cohort of Fellows is geographically balanced and represents a wide range of professions, talents, experience, cultures, people, and perspectives. Sign up to be notified when the application for 2023 is available. APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS Applicants should be between five and twenty-five years into their professional careers, with demonstrated and significant accomplishments at a regional, national, or international level. The average age of a World Fellow is 39, though there is no minimum or maximum age limit. Applicants must be citizens of a country other than the United States. While applicants who hold dual citizenship with the United States are eligible, strong preference is given to candidates whose work is focused outside the United States. Applicants must be fluent in English. An excellent command of the English language is essential to successfully participating in the program. World Fellows are required to be in residence at Yale University in New Haven for the entirety of the program which runs from mid-August through mid-December. SELECTION CRITERIA: Applicants Must Have An established record of extraordinary achievement and integrity. A commitment to the good society and to making a positive impact at the local, national, or international level. A promise of a future career in leadership and notable global impact. A special capacity for critical, creative, entrepreneurial, and strategic thinking. A likelihood to benefit from participation in the program and to contribute to the global perspective on Yale’s campus. A commitment to a rigorous program of activities, to full-time residence at Yale for the entire duration of the program, and to mentoring students and speaking frequently on campus. APPLICATION PROCESS OVERVIEW: The application process for admission to the World Fellows Program is done entirely online. There are no paper forms to complete or mail. There is no application fee or other cost to apply. Prior to the deadline, you may work on your application at any time and submit it when you are ready. After creating an account and accessing the online application, you can upload materials and request your letters of recommendation. Applicants are required to submit a résumé/curriculum vitae (maximum 3 pages), a personal statement (maximum 1000 words), and three letters of recommendation. Applicants also have the option of submitting a brief video statement. Comprehensive instructions can be found within the online application once you create an account. Most questions about the program and the application process can be answered by reviewing this website and the common questions page. If your question is unanswered, you may contact staff at applicant.worldfellows@yale.edu. Please do not send multiple emails regarding one issue, and please do not email staff individually. We thank you for your patience in allowing staff adequate time to thoughtfully process your inquiries. COMPENSATION PACKAGE: A taxable stipend to cover the costs of living in New Haven A modest, furnished one, or two-bedroom apartment for the duration of the program Medical insurance Round-trip travel from home country Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a protected veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Senior Director of the Office of Institutional Equity and Access , 221 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Floor, 203.432.0849. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203.432.4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, Five Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921. Telephone: 617.289.0111, Fax: 617.289.0150, TDD: 800.877.8339, or Email: ocr.boston@ed.gov. Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow APPLICATIONS The World Fellows program is not currently accepting applications. Click below to be notified when the application for the 2023 program becomes available. Get Notified Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap