Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Columbia World Projects Impact Awards Breadcrumb Home Columbia World Projects Impact Awards See Also Call for Project Proposals Columbia World Projects (CWP) is soliciting proposals for projects that aim to have a meaningful impact on people's lives and that have the potential to scale. Successful proposals will receive the first Columbia World Projects Impact Awards. Through this inaugural competitive call, CWP will select and support the design, implementation and evaluation of bold solutions to critical societal problems. We invite proposals from Columbia University faculty for interdisciplinary projects that address the theme “Supporting Generations.” Project requirements: Projects should aim to address issues related to generational well-being across the lifespan. This could include challenges associated with maternal and child health, early childhood development, youth well-being, longevity, and aging. Projects must have at least two faculty leads from at least two Columbia schools, institutes or centers. Interdisciplinarity among members of the project team is highly desirable. Project teams are encouraged to include external partners, as appropriate, e.g. universities, government agencies, bilateral agencies, civil society organizations and/or private sector partners. Projects must engage relevant communities in the project’s design and implementation. Projects may be focused on launching new initiatives or accelerating and scaling existing projects. Projects must seek to advance gender equity and racial justice. Projects must include plans to engage undergraduate and/or graduate students. Columbia World Projects Impact Awards are available at two funding levels: Impact Awards: Up to three projects will be selected to receive between $750,000 and $5,000,000 over a period of two to five years (with an annual funding ceiling of $1,000,000). CWP will provide support for project design, management, evaluation and strategic positioning. Recipients will be required to engage with CWP by participating in CWP programming and submitting regular financial and programmatic reports. Early Concept Awards: Selected proposals will receive between $25,000 and $50,000 for a period of up to two years. Recipients will receive targeted support from CWP and be required to submit regular financial and programmatic reports to CWP. Recipients of both types of awards will be invited to participate in CWP’s network to share findings and engage in events and discussions focused on the Fourth Purpose, Columbia University's mission of using university research to advance human welfare and confront the great challenges of our time. Key Deadlines: Interested applicants are required to express their interest via a brief form available here by June 14, 2022. Faculty will be informed promptly of approval to develop a full proposal. The deadline for final proposal submissions is July 19, 2022. Award announcements will be made in September 2022, with programmatic activities scheduled to launch at the start of the 2022-2023 academic year. Who Can Propose Projects? Columbia University faculty from all disciplines are encouraged to propose projects. Project leads must be full-time faculty members at Columbia University and must have the support of their school, institute or center’s most senior administrative leadership (e.g., dean or director). Faculty may serve as lead or co-lead on only one proposal. Proposal Requirements: All proposal components must be submitted here. A PDF outlining all proposal components and questions is available here. A completed proposal package includes the following: Project abstract Project narrative Budget narrative and budget template Workplan Letter of support from school, institute or center’s most senior administrative leadership (e.g. dean or director) External partner letter of support Organizational chart reflecting team Templates and Resources: Templates that must be filled out alongside a completed proposal, as well as a document that offers theory of change guidance, are included below: Project workplan template Budget template Budget narrative template Theory of change guidance Review Process: Proposals will be evaluated by a review group established specifically for this purpose. Proposals will be scored based on established criteria that include: strength of the proposed idea/solution, the potential for achieving impact, the level of innovation and ambition, interdisciplinarity, student involvement, partnerships and community engagement, and the promise for scalability and sustainability. Questions? Please contact Darragh McConnell, Director of Strategies and Partnerships, Columbia World Projects, [email protected].   Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu