Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale’s response to the invasion of Ukraine Home Ukraine In a statement on March 10, 2022, Yale President Peter Salovey detailed ways the university is responding to the unfolding humanitarian catastrophe in Ukraine, condemned Vladimir Putin’s war of aggression, and vowed that Yale will continue to support students and scholars from Ukraine and elsewhere in the region. As resources and support expands, we will update this page to reflect those changes. Initiatives at Yale Yale is committed to mobilizing resources and coordinating with partner organizations to help displaced scholars and students who have been impacted by the recent crisis in their country. Additional information will be posted in the near future. Departments or programs who may be able to host a scholar are asked to email: ScholarsAtRisk@yale.edu Read more from Yale experts on the invasion of Ukraine Read more about the Yale community response and rallies for Ukraine How You Can Help Ukrainians Individuals who wish to help are encouraged to contribute to established organizations with programs directed to help the people of Ukraine, such as: United for Ukraine, Inc. - a non-profit incorporation of Yale medical professionals with Ukrainian roots, accepting donations to provide precision aid for critical medical and mental health needs in Ukraine Red Cross Ukraine - provides vital aid to humanitarian projects International Rescue Committee - helps refugees Razom (Together) - a US-based and registered 501c3 non-profit organization that delivers medical and humanitarian supplies to cities across Ukraine and is developing evacuation systems for children and children with disabilities For more information, read Yale Professor Timothy Snyder’s essay ‘A few ways to help Ukrainians’ Ukraine Related News Related News 05/10/22 Yale School of Medicine faculty stand 'United for Ukraine' Since the war began, Andrey Zinchuk, MD, MHS, has been connecting with other Ukrainians at Yale University and Yale School of Medicine (YSM). As a result, a group of Ukrainian Yale faculty have created United for Ukraine, Inc. and have been sending supplies to hosp... 04/13/22 What does Vladimir Putin want? In a recent interview Yale School of Management's Barry Nalebuff, an expert on game theory and negotiation, discusses what it will take to find common ground and bring the war in Ukraine to an end, whether the conflict could escalate to a nuclear exchange, and how the war ... 04/07/22 Management in Practice: What do Ukraine’s NGOs Need? Nonprofits are stretched delivering services to vulnerable, underserved populations in the best of times. What do they do when they find themselves operating in a war zone where a quarter of the population is displaced? A recent interview published in Yale Insights focused on ... 03/25/22 MacMillan Center's Humanity Dialogues series on the invasion of Ukraine In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Humanity Dialogues is a series of events that reflect on contingency as existence and address art and politics critically intertwined within societies at war. The series is organized and supported by the Russian, East Europe... 03/16/22 Yale Law's Harold Koh helps win World Court ruling ordering Russia to halt Ukraine invasion On March 16, by a vote of 13–2, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in the Hague issued a landmark ruling ordering the Russian Federation and its paramilitary forces to immediately suspend its military operations in the territory of Ukraine. The Court’s... View All News Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility