Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Program Details The Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program is a four-month, full-time residential program based out of Yale’s Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. The Program runs annually from mid-August to mid-December. The Program provides World Fellows the opportunity to expand their vision, learn from each other, and grow personally and professionally. World Fellows contribute to Yale’s intellectual life, give talks and participate on panels, collaborate with peers, audit classes, and mentor students. Key components of the Program are: WEEKLY SEMINARS Good Society. World Fellows present to each other their vision for making the world a better place, what they do professionally, and how they contribute to building the ‘good society.’ Salon. World Fellows host distinguished guests for discussions on key topics, expanding their knowledge and challenging their views. WEEKLY SEMINARS Good Society. World Fellows present to each other their vision for making the world a better place, what they do professionally, and how they contribute to building the ‘good society.’ Salon. World Fellows host distinguished guests for discussions on key topics, expanding their knowledge and challenging their views. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT World Fellows receive individual and group coaching and skills development training. World Fellows can audit many of the 2,000+ courses offered at Yale, work on individual or collaborative projects, and conduct independent research. PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT World Fellows receive individual and group coaching and skills development training. World Fellows can audit many of the 2,000+ courses offered at Yale, work on individual or collaborative projects, and conduct independent research. HOSTING EVENTS World Fellows give talks and participate on panels across Yale, sharing their knowledge and expertise with students and faculty. Fellows are a resource to the University and are often in high demand on campus. HOSTING EVENTS World Fellows give talks and participate on panels across Yale, sharing their knowledge and expertise with students and faculty. Fellows are a resource to the University and are often in high demand on campus. MENTORING STUDENTS World Fellows mentor students (both undergraduate and graduate) who apply to be their liaisons. The student liaisons assist World Fellows in putting on events and ensure that they are fully immersed in life at Yale. MENTORING STUDENTS World Fellows mentor students (both undergraduate and graduate) who apply to be their liaisons. The student liaisons assist World Fellows in putting on events and ensure that they are fully immersed in life at Yale. NETWORKING Fellows expand their global network by connecting with World Fellows in their cohort and with other Fellows spread throughout the world. Yale’s campus also provides countless opportunities to connect with faculty and students over shared professional and academic interests. NETWORKING Fellows expand their global network by connecting with World Fellows in their cohort and with other Fellows spread throughout the world. Yale’s campus also provides countless opportunities to connect with faculty and students over shared professional and academic interests. Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate Search For A Fellow EVENTS CALENDAR Keep an eye on our events calendar for more opportunities to learn about Fellows’ work. Learn more MAILING LIST Add yourself to our mailing list to receive event invitations directly in your inbox. Subscribe Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap