Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Events Breadcrumb Home Events More events with leading public figures and academics are in the works. Please check back soon! View Past Events Past events View Upcoming Events May 10 2022 How Data Can Help Energize the World and Improve Livelihoods How to identify, analyze, and map the productive use of energy to inform policy and investments. Research & Engagement Event Land cover series by Forest Landscape, detail from report of Uganda Bureau of Statistics. (Hillary Schrenell / CWP) Land cover series by Forest Landscape, detail from report of Uganda Bureau of Statistics. (Hillary Schrenell / CWP) May 03 2022 The Decline in Child Exposure to Lead in Paris and New York Blood-lead levels have declined dramatically in both Paris and New York over the past 50 years. Research & Engagement Event Apr 12 2022 Ukraine: A Health and Humanitarian Crisis This event will explore humanitarian issues created by the war in Ukraine. Research & Engagement Event Apr 07 2022 The Lived Experience of Borderlands: Border Regimes, Social Communities, and the Environment Borders and Barriers seminar series with Columbia University and University of Cambridge. Research & Engagement Event Mar 23 2022 Citizen-Leaders: A Conversation with the Obama Foundation Scholars Join Columbia’s Obama Foundation Scholars for a discussion about active citizenship. Research & Engagement Event Mar 02 2022 Using Data to Fight Corruption and Alleviate Poverty Using Data to Fight Corruption and Alleviate Poverty Research & Engagement Event Pagination trending_flat Previous Previous Current page 1 Go to page 2 2 Go to page 3 3 Go to page 4 4 Last page 4 Next Next trending_flat Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu