Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and South Asia Home Yale and South Asia A Y-RISE research site in Bangladesh, for a study focused on sanitation subsidies Yale’s Engagement in South Asia As the pace of globalization and innovation has accelerated, the need for more robust global engagement, new partnerships, and leadership to address collective global challenges has become increasingly urgent. South Asia continues to be an important area of engagement for Yale because of the region’s size – both population and economy – its growth potential, and our historic and more recent ties to the area. Yale’s global strategy articulates the following high-level aspirations: Be the university that best prepares students for global citizenship and leadership Be a worldwide research leader on matters of global import Be the university with the most effective global networks To achieve these goals and broader aspirations in South Asia, the university is developing coordinated strategies and tactics that build on the strengths of faculty at Yale to engage with the educational landscape emerging in the region. The increased use of video conferencing, the hiring of several new senior faculty who work in this region, the recent affiliation of the Inclusion Economics at Yale initiative, and the launch of the Yale Research Initiative on Innovation and Scale (Y-RISE), combine to present us with new opportunities to amplify Yale’s South Asia network and its impact. Read the full strategy document here. South Asia CTA Boxes South Asian Studies Council The South Asian Studies Council promotes a comprehensive understanding of historical and contemporary South Asia through innovative lectures, conferences, seminars, fellowships and cultural events. Learn More Yale Faculty Engagement in South Asia Yale’s Office of International Affairs compiles information on faculty work in South Asia and around the world. Explore these collaborations with our interactive Gloabl Engagement Map. View the Map South Asia News Items News Related to Yale and South Asia 04/20/22 Infrastructure inequality is a challenge to urban sustainability A new study by researchers at the Yale School of the Environment (YSE) focuses on infrastructure in India and South Africa to find that infrastructure inequalities are ingrained in the urbanization process. Growing up in Delhi, India, Bhartendu Pandey ’21 PhD walked mil... 03/31/22 Yale delegation visits India A small delegation from the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale traveled to India in March 2022. Stops on their visit included Yale Inclusion Economics' India Centre which is hosted at IFMR, the sponsoring body of Krea University, and a visit to Kre... 02/24/22 Yale launches Inclusion Economics Inclusion Economics at Yale University, a policy-engaged research initiative promoting inclusive institutions, economies, and societies has been launched. The initiative is a collaboration between the Economic Growth Center and the Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for Intern... 12/14/21 Neela Saldanha named executive director of the Yale Research Initiative on Innovation and Scale 11/10/21 Progress undone: Rory Stewart on what went wrong in Afghanistan A former diplomat, British cabinet secretary, and member of Parliament, Rory Stewart is a senior fellow at Yale’s Jackson Institute for Global Affairs. In that role, he has helped established the Yale Development Dialogues, a discussion series jointly presented by the Ja... Read more Read more news related to South Asia here. South Asia Subscription bar Focus on South Asia Newsletter To receive updates about Yale and South Asia efforts, subscribe to our newsletter. Subscribe Read the most recent issue of the newsletter Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility