Search Form: Search Search MENU The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Contact Mailing List News Contact Mailing List News The Program Program Details Day in the Life Application Nominate a Candidate Common Questions Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Get Involved Student Liaisons Events Search Form: Search Meet the Fellows We Are Global Search Fellows 2022 World Fellows All Fellows Classes Podcasts Insights from World Fellows Class of 2022 Yale University’s Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program has named its 2022 class of World Fellows. These 16 extraordinary individuals consist of global leaders working in government, the environment, technology, journalism, international development, and the arts, around the world—from China to Uruguay, from Belarus to South Africa. “In a time of conflict and volatility, there is an urgent need for leaders around the world who are committed to making the world more peaceful and just,” said Emma Sky, director of the International Leadership Center at Yale. “The 2022 World Fellows exemplify the kind of innovative and adaptive leadership that is needed in today’s world. They are tackling some of the biggest issues facing the world today with creative and disruptive thinking, doing their part to improve society, and motivating others to do the same. I am thrilled to welcome them to Yale where they will deepen their knowledge and skills while inspiring the next generation of leaders.” The World Fellows program is Yale University’s signature global leadership development initiative and a core element of Yale’s ongoing commitment to internationalism. Each year, the University selects 16 individuals from a highly competitive applicant pool for an intensive four-month period of academic enrichment and leadership training. This cohort brings the total number of World Fellows since the program’s start in 2002 to nearly 400 Fellows, representing 94 countries. “I am honored and delighted to welcome these leaders and innovators to campus,” said Yale President Peter Salovey. “World Fellows have improved people’s lives, and their contributions have far reaching influence on society. They enrich our learning environment by sharing their expertise and experiences with our students. They have the opportunity to grow academically and personally as they interact with our community. This program is an example of Yale’s commitment to developing globally engaged leaders.” The mission of the World Fellows Program is to enable extraordinary individuals, from across the globe and from diverse disciplines, to increase their capacity to make the world a better place. The program is the heart of the International Leadership Center, housed within the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs where Yale students prepare for global leadership and service through its master’s program in public policy in global affairs, master of advanced study in global affairs, and undergraduate major in global affairs. Apply To Become A World Fellow Learn More About The Program Nominate A Candidate SEARCH ALL WORLD FELLOWS SEARCH WORLD FELLOWS EVENTS + CLASS BIOS + Sahar Albazar Huong Dang Belva Devara Fakhar Durrani Solangel Fernández Martin Inthamoussú Kyriacos Koupparis Andrei Kureichik Vera D. Kwakofi Jad Maalouf Kopano Matlwa Mabaso Babatunde Omilola Kirsten Rulf Manasi Subramaniam Minami Tsubouchi Zhao Zhong Stay up to date: Email* Mailing Address Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program P.O. BOX 208359 New Haven, CT 06520-8359 Campus Location Horchow Hall 55 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Related Sites International Leadership Center Good Society Forum Yale Jackson Institute for Global Affairs Yale University Contact Call: (203) 432-1910 Fax: (203) 432-9886 Contact Press Inquiries Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Copyright © 2022, Yale University. All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy | Accessibility at Yale | Nondiscrimination/Title IX | Sitemap