Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS International Admissions myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Explore Select to follow link Academics Community Afford Select to follow link Scholarships Apply Select to follow link English Proficiency General Admission Requirements Credit Transfer Arrive Connect Select to follow link International Representatives Events Info for Graduate students Nondegree-seeking students Parents and families Agents myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo International Admissions Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search The University of Kansas Join an active, spirited community of more than 1,700 international students representing over 100 countries in every region of the world. Explore KU KU by the numbers 150+ years of excellence 500+ degree programs #1 ranked honors program among publics Ready to apply? Start our online application, save your progress, and submit when you are ready. If you want more information, join our email list or contact a member of the International Admissions team. Apply Apply Request info Request info Talk to us Talk to us International application deadlines June 1 Fall preferred deadline for students outside U.S., Applied English Center priority deadline. Final deadline: June 15 July 25 Fall deadline for students within U.S., Applied English Center regular deadline Nov. 15 Spring application deadline for students outside U.S. Dec. 1 Spring application deadline for students within U.S. International students can qualify for renewable scholarships that range from $3,000 per year to a full tuition waiver. See scholarships Meet our team Through one-on-one video meeting, online office hours, email, or social media, you can contact International Admissions staff members your preferred way. Connect with us Plan for arrival If you’ve been accepted to KU, you have a list of things to do before your first day of classes. We’re here to help you make the transition successfully. Find next steps Not a degree-seeking undergraduate? You may be interested in our graduate or exchange programs, or perhaps you’re a family member of a student and want information about KU. We can help. Graduate Students Nondegree-seeking Students Parents and Families Agents Strong Hall 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Room 126 Lawrence, KS 66045 world@ku.edu 785-864-2616 facebook instagram twitter Request information Applied English Center International Support Services Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.