Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation International Toolkit Home Guidance Anti-Bribery Laws Data Privacy and Protection Export Controls Financial Considerations Hosting International Visitors International Tax Overseas Hiring and Placement Safeguards for International Research Collaboration U.S. Economic Sanctions Travel FAQs About the IOCC Contact Us Home > Being an Educated Traveler Being an Educated Traveler Travel During the COVID-19 Pandemic Please visit Yale University’s Travel Resources page for updated information about university travel policy during the COVID-19 pandemic. Before You Depart Register your travel: You will need your NetID and must use a Yale networked computer or Yale VPN. Check you passport and visa requirements. Make a travel health appointment. Read about your health insurance coverage. Read the International SOS country report(s) for your destination(s). Request a customized travel briefing specific to your itinerary from International SOS: complete this form and email it to Philadelphia@internationalsos.com. Carry a physical copy of the International SOS card with you and install the TravelTracker app on your phone. Take photographs of important documents (passport, visas) to bring with you. Share your travel details with your Dean’s office or program office. Provide a copy of your itinerary to family or friends as well. Complete a travel self-assessment. During Your Travel Use the “check in” feature of the TravelTracker app to record your location. Continue to update the Travel Tracker app as your plans change. Share travel plan changes with advisors, your Dean’s Office, family and friends when they occur so your contacts have the best information to reach you in case of an emergency. Carry your charged cell phone with you at all times. Be aware that you may encounter difficulty accessing certain technology services, including DUO (required for some Yale resources), due to new restrictions resulting from heightened concerns about cybersecurity. These restrictions are outside of Yale’s control. Travel Resources during COVID-19 Updated 1/5/2021 Members of the Yale community should consult the university’s detailed COVID-19 Travel Policy and the Office of Environmental Health and Safety’s Safer COVID-19 Travel Practices before making plans for any travel. These pages include information on quarantine requirements, guidelines for university-related travel, and State of Connecticut advisories. These may change as public health and safety circumstances demand, so be sure to consult these resources regularly. In addition, be prepared for travel delays and changes (read the International Travel Challenges notice at the US. State Department website). Faculty, students, and staff must also complete the travel self-assessment when making plans for any international travel (this includes university-sponsored and personal travel). All travelers must also be prepared to follow all government regulations and guidelines for their destination(s). The table below summarizes some issues for consideration when planning travel to different destinations and provides links to a variety of resources. Location Health and Safety Government Restrictions Practical International Drive from US to Canada or Mexico *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow CDC guidance on safety and transportation options *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Land border crossing restrictions between U.S. and Mexico and U.S. and Canada were lifted on October 21, 2021. *Limited services in some places. Fly to/from US *Follow CDC guidance on air travel below. *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Assess daily COVID-19 situation at destination *Detailed COVID-19 statistics are available here *What is the nature of the local health system in the event you fall ill (with anything) or suffer an injury (travel restrictions may prevent your evacuation), consult International SOS at +1-215-942-8478 *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Are you prepared to quarantine? * Effective December 6, 2021, all air passengers, regardless of vaccination status, must show a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 1 day before travel to the United States. Details may be found here. *Consult the CDC’s quick reference guide for entry requirements. *Effective November 8, 2021, pursuant to a presidential proclamation issued October 25, 2021, all persons traveling to the United States by air who are not U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, or U.S. lawful permanent residents are required to show proof of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Learn more. If you are not a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or U.S. lawful permanent resident and are fully vaccinated, make sure your vaccine and proof of vaccination are acceptable to board a flight to the United States. See CDC’s Frequently Asked Questions for details. *Consider deferring travel to any countries that are listed as CDC level 4 or level 3 advisories, do not have reported data (CDC level unknown), or are listed “Do Not Travel” by the U.S. Department of State. *Travelers can check the U.S. State Department website for specific country entry restrictions. *ISOS provides comprehensive summary of restriction in all countries on the ISOS website (requires a NetID to access and Yale’s Membership Number is 11B824535). *Be wary of airlines offering reservations on flights that are not being operated regularly. *Avoid travel to destinations with only occasional flights. *An outbreak could occur at any time at the destination (or transit location) and could escalate rapidly – are you prepared to stay in that location for an extended period? *Be prepared for local hostility (you may be seen as a threat given the relative seriousness of outbreak in US). Researcher is in country *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Local domestic movement restrictions. ISOS summaries provide starting point. *Other non-movement related internal conditions *Local only Local or regional travel (e.g. within EU) *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow CDC guidance on safety and transportation options *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Local domestic movement restrictions. ISOS summaries provide starting point. *Other non-movement related internal conditions *Local only Domestic Researcher is in location *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow COVID-19 data by state and county at CovidActNow *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Consult state and local restrictions using CDC Travel Planner *Local only Drive, no overnight *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow CDC guidance on safety and transportation options *See COVID-19 data by state and county at CovidActNow *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Consult state and local restrictions using CDC Travel Planner *None Drive, overnight stays *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow CDC guidance on safety and transportation options *See COVID-19 data by state and county at CovidActNow *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Consult state and local restrictions using CDC Travel Planner *Limited services in some places. Flight *Ensure compliance with standard precautions that apply on and off campus *Follow CDC guidance on air travel below. *Follow CDC guidance on safety and transportation options *See COVID-19 data by state and county at CovidActNow *Follow Yale EHS guidance on vehicle use *Consult state and local restrictions using CDC Travel Planner *Limited flights *Limited services in some places. CDC guidance on air travel Air travel requires spending time in security lines and airport terminals, which can bring you in close contact with other people and frequently touched surfaces. Most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on flights because of how air circulates and is filtered on airplanes. However, social distancing is difficult on crowded flights, and you may have to sit near others (within 6 feet), sometimes for hours. Travel Resources What to do in an Emergency Yale Travel Registry Yale Travel Self-Assessment Yale Travel Management/Egencia ITS Loaner Laptop Program International SOS Program International SOS Member Center International SOS Travel Safety & Security Training Travel Health Insurance Travel Health Appointments CIBT Visa Assistance Association for Safe International Road Travel Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter iTunes YouTube Sina Weibo Tumblr