Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Information for International Admissions Applicants Home Information for International Admissions Applicants Yale University welcomes over 5,000 international students and scholars from more than 120 countries. Students and scholars are drawn to Yale for its excellent global reputation as a leader in education, research, and clinical practice. International applications are encouraged and accepted for all programs. Approximately 22% of Yale’s students are citizens of a country other than the United States. In addition to the undergraduate degrees offered in Yale College, students pursue master’s or doctoral degrees in the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, and specialized degrees in our 12 professional schools. There are also many non-degree programs that allow individuals to study or pursue research without matriculating. This website provides general information about Yale and answers to some questions frequently asked by international students applying for admission. International students typically follow the same procedure and use the same application forms as all other students applying to Yale. Applicants should note that each program at Yale has a separate admissions process and criteria, so specific questions should be directed to admissions specialists at the school or program to which they are applying. To view a video on Yale’s history, programs, and impact, see box titled “Yale and the World” at the bottom of this page and select your preferred language to begin. You may also see an illustrated timeline of Yale and its traditions here. Visiting Yale You are invited to visit Yale any time. Maps, directions, information on tours, a calendar of events, the Yale Visitor Center, and more may be found here. New Haven New Haven, Yale’s home city, has experienced—and continues to enjoy—a renaissance. Within an easy stroll from the New Haven Green and the Yale campus are more than 100 distinctive restaurants, offering something for every palate. The city abounds with theaters, museums, and shopping destinations to satisfy all interests and tastes. Information on visiting, dining, shopping, and living in New Haven may be found here. Application processes and instructions Each program and school has its own application process. If you find that you need additional explanations about any of the forms, please check with the school or program where you wish to enroll. Financial support Yale is committed to ensuring that qualified students are admitted without regard to their financial circumstances, and that they graduate without excessive debt. Financial aid varies by school and program, consult the financial aid website of your program for more information. Visas The Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) is here to answer your questions and help you with any problem that you may have. We are your resource on immigration matters and our dedicated staff is here to assist you with problems concerning your immigration status, as well as with any concerns about your social and personal adjustment to life in the United States. Campus support There are many resources at Yale to help international students with any questions or concerns they may have about life as a student at Yale or living in a new country. There are offices and services to help answer international students’ questions about immigration matters, working as a student at Yale, adjusting to life in the U.S., and all other personal matters and concerns. The Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) and International Center for Yale Students and Scholars coordinate a number of programs that provide international students, scholars, and family members with fun and interesting activities and opportunities to connect with the local community. The idea is to help students learn more about U.S. culture, improve their language skills, and make new cross-cultural exchanges and friendships. There are programs to help international students with business and personal matters. There are also a wide variety of cultural and social activities. Here are some of the upcoming events. Yale and the World Video Yale and the World This video describes the history of Yale University, outlines the academic offerings and campus life, and highlights some of the Yale graduates and faculty who have made significant contributions to their fields or society. Pick a Language English Swahili Portuguese Korean Japanese German French Arabic Chinese Spanish Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility