Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content About the Obama Foundation Scholars Program Breadcrumb Home About the Obama Foundation Scholars Program See Also Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions President Barack Obama talks with the inaugural class of Obama Scholars during their program kickoff retreat in Chicago on August 28, 2018. (Christopher Dilts/The Obama Foundation) President Barack Obama talks with the inaugural class of Obama Scholars during their program kickoff retreat in Chicago on August 28, 2018. (Christopher Dilts/The Obama Foundation) The Obama Foundation Scholars Program at Columbia University brings together rising leaders from the United States and around the world who have demonstrated a commitment to finding solutions to challenges in their communities and countries. Scholars complete a fully-funded 9-month residency on campus at Columbia World Projects, deepening their knowledge and skills, and building new capacities and networks to accelerate their impact. Scholars participate in an immersive program that brings together academic, skills-based and experiential learning, designed by Columbia University in consultation with the Obama Foundation. Key components of the program include: A Weekly Seminar that runs the length of the academic year, exploring questions in tandem with key global trends including inequality, technological developments, the diffusion of power, population movements, and climate change. Personal and Professional Development Workshops designed to strengthen practical skills to enhance Scholars’ ability to lead. Previous workshop topics include conflict management and resolution, public speaking, data analysis and interpretation, and resilience. An Experiential Learning component that engages Scholars in the work of Columbia World Projects. Audited Coursework that provides Scholars with the flexibility to select and enroll in up to two graduate level courses each semester at Columbia. A Thought Leadership Speaker Series that introduces Scholars to seasoned practitioners from the NGO community, philanthropy, government, and international organizations to expand Scholars’ networks and perspectives to help advance their work. Partnership with a Columbia faculty adviser selected for their subject matter expertise to provide Scholars with new insights and perspectives to inform Scholars’ work. Meaningful opportunities for Scholars to contribute to the intellectual life of the campus and gain exposure to different perspectives by engaging with the Columbia University community. Scholars participate in a robust, immersive program that includes networking, guidance from Columbia faculty advisers, and values-based leadership development, among other activities. These experiences enable the Scholars to learn from some of the world’s most innovative leaders and build connections with the Obama Foundation and Columbia University. “Witnessing the powerful impact of this program on the remarkable individuals participating as Obama Scholars, and the communities they are dedicated to changing, has left Columbia even more deeply invested in this special endeavor and all that it can accomplish.” – Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger Obama Foundation Scholars reside at Columbia World Projects (CWP), an initiative that mobilizes the university’s researchers and scholars to work with governments, organizations, businesses and communities to tackle global challenges. Scholars participate in CWP activities during the academic year. The program is central to CWP’s mission of putting Columbia research into action by training the next generation of global leaders to bring about worldwide change. Upon completion of the program, Obama Foundation Scholars, empowered by their experience, return to the regions where they have been working and continue along a path of service. The purpose of the program is to help Obama Foundation Scholars take the connections and skills they acquire during the program and apply them for the benefit of their communities, countries, and regions. Obama Foundation Scholars are expected to remain engaged with the Obama Foundation and Columbia World Projects after the conclusion of the program. The 2019-2020 cohort of Obama Foundation Scholars in conversation with Nobel Peace Laureate Leymah Gbowee. The 2019-2020 cohort of Obama Foundation Scholars in conversation with Nobel Peace Laureate Leymah Gbowee. The 2019-2020 cohort of Obama Foundation Scholars in conversation with Jeffrey Sachs, University Professor and Director, Center for Sustainable Development, Columbia University. The 2019-2020 cohort of Obama Foundation Scholars in conversation with Jeffrey Sachs, University Professor and Director, Center for Sustainable Development, Columbia University. 1/ 8 Go to previous slide keyboard_arrow_left Go to next slide keyboard_arrow_right We are no longer accepting applications for the 2022-2023 cohort. Sign up for the Columbia World Projects newsletter to be notified when the 2023-2024 application becomes available. Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu