Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Improving Lives With Columbia Research Columbia World Projects mobilizes the university’s researchers and scholars to work with governments, organizations, businesses and communities to tackle global challenges. pause Pause video Your browser does not support the video tag. Columbia Faculty Invited to Apply for Social Impact Funding Opportunities Faculty from across the university are encouraged to submit proposals for the Columbia World Projects Impact Awards, which will be granted to projects that address critical issues that affect people across the course of their lives. Learn More Our Next Project: Measuring the Impact of Youth Justice Initiatives Columbia World Projects (CWP) announced the launch of a new project that will support New York City youth who have been impacted by the criminal justice system. Read About the Project 2021 Highlights from the ACToday Columbia World Project Columbia World Projects is pleased to share the latest report from Adapting Agriculture to Climate Today, for Tomorrow (ACToday), our first project. Since 2017, the project has not only worked to create innovative climate information, methods and tools tailored for agriculture, but has also helped decision makers understand how to use these products to ensure safe and stable food supplies. Project Highlights Jacquelyn Turner/IRI Jacquelyn Turner/IRI Climate Action Collective to Bring New Global Voices Into University’s Climate Response Columbia World Projects (CWP) launched the Climate Action Collective, a global network of stakeholders who will work together to identify key climate challenges that Columbia can help tackle through its teaching, research and global programming. The collective will be led by CWP, Columbia Global Centers, the Columbia Climate School and ICAP, Columbia University’s center for global health. Learn More News: Expanding Our Efforts to Improve U.S. Wastewater Infrastructure Columbia World Projects (CWP) today announced a second phase of its Transforming Wastewater Infrastructure in the United States project, which is dedicated to improving failing wastewater infrastructure in Alabama’s Black Belt region. The new phase will expand the project’s work in Alabama while also developing data and tools to bring improved wastewater systems to communities facing similar challenges nationwide. Learn More Columbia World Project ‘Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem’ Kicks Off Focus Groups The Columbia World Project Confronting COVID-19 Loss in Harlem has launched a series of focus groups—a next step toward achieving the project’s goal of reducing COVID-19 related grief in the Harlem community. Learn More Report: Universities Are Vital to Restoring Public Trust in Elections Columbia World Projects brought together a bipartisan group of experts including secretaries of four U.S. states that played pivotal roles in the 2020 presidential election, Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Washington and top researchers in election science to debate and plan how universities can help rebuild public trust in the electoral system and elections. Their findings are outlined in a new report. Read the Report Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu