Skip to main content Yale University" Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News Yale and the World Search this site About Academics & Research Centers & Initiatives Library Collections Museums & Galleries Partners & Networks Study Abroad & Exchange Admissions Resources Emergencies Abroad International Toolkit Office of International Students and Scholars Travel Abroad Visiting Yale Alumni & Affiliates Regions Africa Australia & Oceania Brazil East Asia Yale and China Europe Latin America Middle East Southeast Asia Yale-NUS South Asia News East Asia Explore Other Regions By the Numbers 1041 Students from Region 1019 Scholars from Region 2474 Alumni in Region Yale and China Collaborations Yale has a long history with China, going back to the 1835. We invite you to learn about our programs, partnerships, and collaborations in China. Learn more East Asia CTA Boxes Three Four The Richard U. Light Fellowship The Richard U. Light Fellowship Program supports Yale undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students pursuing intensive language study in East Asia for terms ranging from a single summer to a combined summer plus academic year. Find out more Japan at the Crossroads: Yale Project on Japan's Politics and Diplomacy The Japan at the Crossroads reinforces Yale MacMillan Center’s role as a hub of interdisciplinary research and teaching on contemporary issues of global, institutional, and human import. The project deepens and broadens the understanding of Japan and its global challenges among Yale students, scholars, faculty, and others. Find out more East Asia News East Asia News 05/31/22 Yale Child Study Center project to examine experiences of racial aggression toward early education providers In order to better understand the degree and nature of anti-Asian racial aggression and trauma experienced by Asian-American early educators during the COVID-19 pandemic, Yale Child Study Center research faculty members Tong Liu and Walter Gilliam have launched the Asian-Ameri... 11/03/21 China-Yale Advanced University Leadership Program focuses on innovation and entrepreneurship On October 27, leaders of nine top universities in China met over Zoom with Yale officials and faculty to share perspectives on creating innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystems on their campuses. Tsinghua University hosted the event, which was the most recent convening of t... 05/18/21 Neither here nor there: Yan Phou Lee in America In 1873, 12-year-old Yan Phou Lee left China to study in the United States. Over the next 50 years he became a popular orator, the first Asian American to publish a book in English, a fierce opponent of anti-Chinese prejudice, and a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1887 &... 05/10/21 Japan-Yale Program on University Innovation Ecosystems A recent program designed by Yale's Office of International Affairs (OIA) brought together representatives of Japanese universities, government, and corporate entities with Yale experts for a month-long series of online meetings to discuss the building blocks of innovation... 04/30/21 Peter Salovey participates in The Global Forum of University Presidents A consensus was released by China's Tsinghua University on Saturday to promote closer cooperation with global universities. The consensus highlighted the importance of building more open, integrative and resilient universities all over the world. During the Global Forum o... View All News East Asia Resource List Search Listings Search Resources Academics & Research Asian Art Asian Religions China Records Project Council on East Asian Studies East Asia Library Ethnicity Race and Migration Yale InterAsia Initiative Yale-Shanghai Jiao Tong University Joint Center for Biostatistics Alumni Regional Alumni Clubs Yale Alumni Magazine Yale Club Hong Kong Yale Club Shanghai Yale Club Taipei Yale-China Association Students ACCENT: The undergraduate multilingual magazine at Yale AIESEC Asian American Cultural Center at Yale Association of Chinese Students and Scholars at Yale (ACSSY) C# Chinese Acapella China Hands Magazine Chinese Adopted Siblings Program for Youth Global China Connection Human Rights & Development Law Journal, Yale International Relations Association Inc., Yale International Students Organization Japanese American Students Union Journal of International Affairs, Yale Korean American Students Conference, Yale Phoenix Dance Troupe Richard U. Light Fellowship Wushu, Yale Yale International Relations Association Yale and the World Contact Us OIA Accessibility