Skip to main content Close close Search Utility menu News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report search Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship search Open menu menu Main navigation About Open submenu for About link What We Do Who We Are Advisors & Supporters Social Impact Areas Open submenu for Social Impact Areas link Climate COVID-19 Democratic Renewal Energy Access Inclusive Urbanism Maternal Health Unequal Opportunity Our Work Open submenu for Our Work link Projects Research & Engagement The Obama Foundation Scholars Program Open submenu for The Obama Foundation Scholars Program link Meet the Scholars Application Information Frequently Asked Questions The Fourth Purpose Open submenu for The Fourth Purpose link Impact Awards Social Impact Fellowship News & Media Events Contact Support Our Work Research Into Action Report Main content Social Impact Fellowship: About Breadcrumb Home Social Impact Fellowship: About Social Impact Fellowship Social Impact Fellowship See Also The Social Impact Fellowship is a new summer and academic year-long program for rising Columbia University juniors and seniors who aspire to use their talents to help solve complex global challenges. Students at Columbia College, School of General Studies, School of Engineering and Applied Science, and Barnard College are eligible to apply. The program begins in July 2022 with a fully funded, six-week summer intensive designed to provide students with an opportunity to deepen their knowledge, and build new skills and capacities to pursue social impact initiatives and careers. This summer session is a competitively paid opportunity that will run from July to August at Columbia World Projects (CWP) on the Manhattanville campus of Columbia University. The program will provide each participant a $4,800 stipend, offer six weeks of summer housing for students who need it, and cover the cost of travel to and from New York City for the summer session. After the six-week summer intensive, students will remain engaged with CWP during the 2022-2023 academic year as they receive mentorship, participate in hands-on learning opportunities, meet thought leaders and social impact innovators, including participants in the Obama Foundation Scholars Program at Columbia University, and gain insight into the work of CWP. This is the first program to be launched as part of the Fourth Purpose academy, a series of education and training opportunities led by Columbia World Projects for Columbia students to help realize what Columbia University President Lee C. Bollinger calls the university’s “Fourth Purpose” – advancing human welfare and confronting the great challenges of our time. The Social Impact Fellowship will be offered annually to train emerging undergraduate leaders. A graduate student cohort is expected to launch in the fall of 2022; application information for that program will be announced at a later date. Find answers to frequently asked questions. Applications are now closed. Sign up for the Columbia World Projects newsletter to be notified when future applications become available. For inquiries please write to [email protected] Want to stay in touch? Sign up for our newsletter. Leave this field blank If you have a question for our team, reach out. Contact us youtube linkedin Footer navigation About Social Impact Areas Our Work The Obama Foundation Scholars Program The Fourth Purpose ©2020 Columbia University Off-site links Nondiscrimination Accessibility accessible Disability services Opportunities Columbia.edu