Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Writing Center Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About us Staff Directory Mission and Outcomes Annual Reports Studio (URWS) Online Writing Support (OWS) Multilingual Support Faculty Resources Employment Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About us Staff Directory Mission and Outcomes Annual Reports Studio (URWS) Online Writing Support (OWS) Multilingual Support Faculty Resources Employment OSU Writing Center Early closures during weeks 8 and 10: The Writing Center will be closed on Friday, May 20 from 12:00 - 2:00 pm for staff professional development. On Friday, June 3 the Writing Center will close at 2 pm for a staff event. Online Writing Support written feedback will continue to be available on both Fridays. Writing and research consultants provide support with any type of writing project (class assignments, research papers, CVs/resumes, cover letters, job or scholarship applications, etc.) during any stage of the writing process. We're excited to work with you on your next writing project! Undergrad Research & Writing Studio (the Studio) Bring your writing or research project to the Studio space in the Valley Library and receive help from trained peer writing consultants while you work. No appointment is necessary and you can stay as long as you want. Spring 2022 Studio Hours: Monday - Thursday: 10 am - 6 pm Friday: 10 am - 4 pm Sunday: 1 pm - 4 pm Written Feedback Submit your draft online for a written response from a trained peer writing consultant. Feedback can be provided at any stage of the writing process, and submissions typically receive a response by the end of the next business day (Sunday-Friday). Request written feedback Visit our OWS webpage for more information and FAQs. Zoom Appointments We offer 50-minute appointments via Zoom. Appointments can focus on general or specific writing and/or research support and grammar-related areas of your writing (syntax, usage, etc.). Schedule an appointment Click the link above to view available times for appointments. Workshops on Writing We are happy to announce an online winter workshop series on Wednesdays at noon. This series focuses on academic and professional writing topics to benefit our diverse student population. To review workshops and register visit our Workshop webpage. Academic Success Center Graduate Writing Center OSU Libraries Email Us Contact Info Writing Center 121 The Valley Library Oregon State University Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-5640 [email protected] Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer