Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Speech at Dartmouth Share Speech Contest - Call for Undergraduate Entries Posted on February 09, 2022 by Liz Mackey 2022 Speech Contest Call for Entries Announcing The Benjamin F. Barge, Class of 1866, and Speech at Dartmouth Awards for Oratory The Speech program in the Institute for Writing and Rhetoric is pleased to invite entries in two historic speaking contests at Dartmouth College. PreviousNext In May 2022, finalists will compete for the Benjamin F. Barge and Class of 1866 Awards for Oratory. One senior will win the Benjamin F. Barge award, one senior and one first-year student will win a Class of 1866 award, and one second-year student and one third-year student will win a Speech at Dartmouth Prize for Oratory. Each winner will receive a cash prize, and all finalists will receive certificates. HOW TO ENTER To enter the contest, students should adhere closely to the following guidelines: 1. All contestants must be Dartmouth students. 2. The first round will be based on a written manuscript or detailed outline of a speech designed to persuade the listeners on any topic. 3. The manuscript or outline must be accompanied by a works cited/reference page, following MLA or APA format. 4. All sources must also be orally cited in the speech. 5. When delivered, the speech should be no more than 5 minutes. 6. Speeches must be original works by the student. 7. Visual aids are not allowed. 8. All rounds of the contest will be held in person and on campus. Remote participation is not possible. If conditions do not allow for an in-person contest, we will regretfully cancel the contest for 2022. ENTRY DEADLINE Entry Deadline: Monday, March 28th, 5:00pm EST. Students should email their manuscript and/or detailed outline to the Speech Contest Committee at Speech@dartmouth.edu by 5:00pm on Monday, March 28th. Please use "SPEECH CONTEST ENTRY" as your subject line. Please note your name and class year in your email entry. KEY DATES TO KNOW Students will be selected from these submissions to present their speeches before a panel of judges. Students selected for this preliminary round will be contacted by Tuesday, April 5thand will present their speeches on campus on Monday, April 11th between 4-5pm. From this preliminary round, up to four students will be selected to compete in the Benjamin F. Barge, Class of 1866, and Speech at Dartmouth Prize for Oratory contests on Tuesday, May 17th, 4:30 - 6:45 pm, along with students who have been competitively selected from Speech courses. The contest will be held in person and on campus; remote participation is not possible. This event will not be open to the public. In the event conditions do not allow for an in-person event, we will regretfully cancel the contest for 2022. Tags: Barge , Compton , Drummond , Speech Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback