Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 WRIT 2-3 Course Outcomes WRIT 2-3 Guidelines for Faculty Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Support Share Expectations for Writing 2-3 What can you expect of your students? Many instructors wonder what capabilities their students will bring with them to the Writing 2-3 classroom. Writing 2-3 has an especially diverse population who bring with them an array of writing abilities and writing challenges. 2-3 students are bright students who, for one reason or another, find that they are under-prepared for the writing that they will have to do at Dartmouth. Some 2-3 students are more interested in math or science than they are in writing and come to the course feeling that writing is something they're "just not good at." Still others come from high schools with weak writing programs. Some have little experience writing academic papers; some have never done research. Some are multilingual students who feel that they can't comfortably express their complex ideas in English. Others rely on simple structures—like the five-paragraph theme—that won't be sufficient for success at Dartmouth. Several can express themselves very well in narratives or informal writing but are daunted by the demands of academic prose. It's also worth noting that the Writing 2-3 population is typically three to four times more diverse than the typical Dartmouth classroom. While this diversity makes for an especially rewarding classroom experience, it also creates challenges for the instructor, who needs to take difference into account. In Writing 2-3, you will be challenged to find a way to teach students the practices of the academy while respecting the values and experiences that they bring with them. Finally, because every student who takes Writing 2-3 has elected to do so, you can expect that your students will be committed to the work of the course. By and large, 2-3 students are "game": they are willing to work hard, and they are eager to see improvement in their writing. And they do improve - some quite remarkably. Indeed, Writing 2-3 counts among its alums a Valedictorian, a Salutatorian, Phi Beta Kappas, and Presidential Scholars. Expect that your students can meet the rigorous challenges you place before them. What does the Writing Program expect of you? The list of goals for Writing 2-3 is long. Instructors are expected to introduce students to the practices of academic discourse. They will instruct the students in close and careful analysis of difficult texts. They will assign and guide their students through a two-term research project. They will create a classroom community that is inviting and supportive, a place where a diverse student population can engage in meaningful work together. Most important, they will teach their students to write. As in the other first-year writing courses, teaching writing will not depend simply on assigning writing—though writing will be assigned, and often. Instructors will frequently conduct writing workshops, confer regularly with students about their writing, provide careful and thoughtful feedback, and make good use of the collaborative learning and active learning ideas described throughout this website. For a more thorough description of the program's expectations, please see Writing 2-3 Guidelines for Faculty. We hope that you will especially note the following: Make your course rigorous, and keep your standards high. Too often, courses for underprepared students are "slowed-down" versions of mainstream writing courses. In Writing 2-3, we believe that the best way to prepare our students is to work them hard. Students should be reading challenging texts and continuously writing. Assign several short papers early on. Require students to revise each of their papers at least once. Talk with them about what makes a good paper, and hold them to these standards. Plan to spend substantial class time on student writing. Don't allow course readings to crowd out discussion of student work. Treat student work as another text for the class, using it as the basis for in-class writing workshops. See Conducting Writing Workshops for proven strategies. Involve your students in writing instruction. Common wisdom tells us that students best learn to write when you involve them in peer instruction. Train your students to diagnose and respond to the work of their peers, and soon you'll see marked improvement in their writing. See Collaborative Learning for ideas on how to structure this collaborative work. Invite your TA to be your teaching partner. The Teaching Assistants meet with students every week. They often perceive problems in student writing before you do. Seasoned 2-3 instructors meet regularly with TAs and use the TAs' insights to tweak the teaching plan. TAs are often willing to hold x-hour workshops to address common writing issues, or to meet in discussion groups with students who are struggling with a particular text. Talk with your TA to create a partnership that will work for your course. (For what to expect of your TA, see below.) What do your students expect of you? Students come to Writing 2-3 with equal parts enthusiasm and anxiety. As noted above, every student enrolled in 2-3 has elected to be there, and they expect to work hard on their writing. In turn, students have expectations of you. Students expect the classroom format to be discussion-based, not lecture-based. They want a class that is intimate not only in size but in character. Students want feedback from you on their writing. You should respond not only to the content of the writing, but also to the structure, form, and style. Students expect that you will return their papers to them in a timely manner, so that they have sufficient time to absorb and incorporate your comments before the next paper is due. Students expect that you be available to meet with them in conference throughout the term to discuss their progress as writers. They also hope that you will be available to them in office hours and via email. Students want your criticism; they need your support. It's important to be frank with 2-3 students. They understand that they need to improve their writing, and they are eager to hear from you what it is that they should do. But they also require your support. Your students will expect you to remain engaged with them as writers and as thinkers, so that they in turn can do their best work in your course. What can you expect of your TA? Every instructor teaching Writing 2-3 has a Teaching Assistant. Because they meet with students individually for an hour each week, the TAs are often the first to diagnose problems in student writing. They are also in a good position to give the students the individual attention that they need. If you have questions about teaching Writing 2-3, please contact the Director of the Institute for Writing and Rhetoric. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback