Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Svetlana (Yana) V. Grushina Academic Appointments Senior Lecturer in Speech Connect with Us Twitter LinkedIn I study organizational communication from the perspective of communication as constitutive of the social world. Within this view, we can understand concepts such as team effectiveness or organizational sustainability and CSR as manifest primarily in and through communication rules, rituals, and practices. I have worked independently and with international research teams using qualitative and quantitative methods to better understand how communication is consequential for a range of productivity outcomes of global teams and organizational stakeholders’ quality of life. My expertise is in qualitative methods, such as interviews, observation, ethnography, and textual and discourse analysis. I have conducted field research and lived in Mozambique, Russia, the U.S., Australia, Jamaica, Brazil, and Germany. Beyond being a social science, the discipline of communication, and the study of speech in particular, has deep roots in the humanities. Foundational works such as Aristotle's Rhetoric and Nicomachean Ethics as well as contemporary rhetorical theory by Chaïm Perelman and Kenneth Burke, to name a few, are vital for a layered appreciation of how and why people communicate, and how could we. With that in mind, my courses introduce students to foundational rhetorical theory as well as contemporary research in communication and related fields. I draw on cross-cultural examples to bring to life theoretical concepts, and I strive to engage students with course topics in ways that are meaningful, memorable, and exciting. "Words felt alive in there" is a line from a former student's letter reminiscing about a class. I look at that line, on the wall in my office, every time before I teach. + View more Contact Svetlana.Grushina@Dartmouth.edu 37 Dewey Field Rd. Rm. 227 HB 6250 Education Ph.D. Rutgers University M.A. Kent State University Areas of Expertise Organizational Communication /Global Teams /Sustainability and CSR /New Media Rhetoric /Public Speaking Selected Publications Sonnentag, S., Wei Tian, A., Cao, J., & Grushina, S. V. (2021). Positive work reflection during the evening and next-day work engagement: Testing mediating mechanisms and cyclical processes. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 1-30. [open access] Gibson, C. B., & Grushina, S. V. (2021). A tale of two teams: Next generation strategies for increasing the effectiveness of global virtual teams. Organizational Dynamics, 50(1), 1-12. [open access] Gibbs, J. L., Gibson, C. B., Grushina, S. V., & Dunlop, P. D. (2021). Understanding orientations to participation: Overcoming status differences to foster engagement in global teams. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 1-19. [free eprint] Grushina, S. V. (2017). Collaboration by design: Stakeholder engagement in GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Organization & Environment, 30(4), 366-385. [contact for pdf] Courses Speech 20: Public Speaking Speech 26: New Media Communication Speech 36: Organizational Communication and Sustainability Writing 5: Social Media and You Writing 3: SCREEN/LIFE Writing 7.28: Team Communication and Identity + View more Related Links CCNH 2021 Presidents’ Good Steward Award Recipient My former student on Speech 20: "You learn so much about people, about the art of persuasion and the art of listening." Dartmouth Graduates in Their Own Unfiltered First-Year Thoughts Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback