Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Writing Courses Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-year Writing Choices Prizes ORC Description Speech 34 Share Speech 34: Image Rhetoric: Image Attack, Image Repair, and Image Promotion Image is an important and complicated part of communication. Rhetoric can build image, and rhetoric can tear down image. Rhetoric can attack image, and rhetoric can defend image. Each focus of this course (image attack, image repair, image promotion) builds on classic and modern work in apologia and persuasion, including studies of politics, entertainment, and commerce. Speaking and writing activities will broaden our ideas about image. No prerequisites. Limited enrollment. Instructor: Compton. Distributive: SOC. 22F: 10A. To view the ORC description, follow this link: Speech 34 This is a class about rhetoric, about image, and more specifically, about the at once clarifying and confounding relationship between rhetoric and image. Rhetoric can build and communicate image, but it can also attack and tear down image. Rhetorical strategies can attempt to repair image, but the calculus of image repair is unpredictable and sometimes counter to conventional wisdom. Image. In communication, image (or ethos) is a matter of perception. Audiences evaluate a communicator’s credibility, and their perception of the communicator’s image affects how the audience processes, interprets, and responds. Image scholars—including the foundational work of James McCroskey and his colleagues (e.g., McCroskey & Young, 1981)—point out that image has a number of dimensions, including perceptions of competence and character. The Importance of Image. An academic study of image rhetoric crosses contexts and issue domains, exploring aspects of civic life and public policy: politics and entertainment, public relations and commerce, scandals and mistakes, miscommunication and missteps, writing and speech. How can politicians repair their images after they have been criticized? How do companies use image attacks against competitors in marketing? How can award winners talk about their successes while preserving reputations of humility? Issues in these contexts will be the material of image promotion (e.g., a politician bolstering image by referring to specific legislative accomplishments), image attack (e.g., a consumer advocacy group questioning the image of a company on grounds of environmental safety), and image repair (e.g., an entertainer attempting transcendence by extoling fictional dramatizations of challenges as teaching moments for the citizenry). Our discussions of image will also extend to effects of image, which might include actions such as voting, purchase decisions, and even interpersonal/social interactions. Theory and Methods. Theory will guide our discussions and studies. A good deal of this course will draw on theorizing of sociologists, including Erving Goffman’s treatment of facework in social contexts. Other theories, including the work of social psychologist William McGuire (inoculation theory), will be used to supplement and/or complement the rhetorical models explored in the course, including Bill Benoit’s image repair typology and Pamela Benoit’s image promotion typology. The scholarship we will consult will mostly use rhetorical analysis; often, such scholarship turns to quantitative data (e.g., polling) to measure a rhetor’s success. A few image studies use empirical/ quantitative methods of analysis, including experiments. Image Attacks. Our exploration of image attacks will draw on ancient rhetorical explications of accusations, charges, and criticisms. Issues of offensiveness and culpability will emerge and reemerge as we trace how rhetoric is used to attack (see Ryan, 1982). We will consider how rhetorical attacks function in various contexts, with a special emphasis on politics (e.g., Pfau & Kenski, 1990). Image Repair. Our focus on image repair will be mostly guided by the work of William Benoit and his typology of image repair strategies (Benoit, 1995a, 2000). Benoit’s work attempts to corral the myriad rhetorical options for image repair into a concise, five-category typology of denial, evading responsibility, reducing offensiveness, corrective action, and mortification. This typology has served as the framework for theoretically driven case studies in politics, entertainment, public relations, sports, religion, etc. We will read some of the classic pieces from these genres, as well as some of the newest explorations of image repair. Image Promotion. Our consideration of image promotion benefits from the work of Pamela Benoit and her typology of image bolstering, or in the words of the book-length treatment of her theorizing, Telling the Success Story. We will consider how athletes, Nobel Prize-winning scientists, and successful Mary Kay salespeople talk about their own successes—walking that fine line between promotion and perceived arrogance. Summary: A Calculus of Image Rhetoric. The course is neatly segmented into the three areas of image attack, image repair, and image promotion, but the separation is rather artificial. Already, after only a brief overview of where we will be headed in this course, we see the blurred lines that separate attacks, repairs, and promotions. Some strategies of promotion work well to repair an image (e.g., bolstering.) Some image attacks backfire and become the impetus for image repair. And all the while, our conceptualization(s) of image is pulled, stretched, disassembled, reassembled, questioned. We end the course with a consideration of how image repair and promotion might function when combined with other theoretical approaches. I’ll share my ongoing work that explores the combination of image repair with inoculation theory, with an effect that I’m currently naming image prepare. A study of image can be academic and practical, theoretical and applied. We will continually be asked during the term to consider what our study of theory means to our practice of rhetoric, and how theory-informed rhetorical choices would work in applied settings. You’ll be writing and speaking to make discoveries about image during activities designed to improve your writing and speaking and simultaneously to develop your knowledge, theorizing, and analysis of rhetoric. We won’t conclude the course with a tidy definition of image, or of image repair, image attack, and image promotion. Our goal is not to write an equation for image success. We will, however, end the course with a more informed definition of image—and not just a definition we can write or recite, but a definition we can enact through our rhetorical choices, our rhetorical analyses, and our rhetorical theorizing. By doing this—by engaging in an academic and demanding study of image—we’re also doing some image building of our own. We are building, protecting, and promoting rhetoric’s image in general and image repair scholarship in particular. Course Goals The overriding goal of the course is for you to develop a more nuanced understanding of image rhetoric. We’ll use writing and speaking to make these discoveries, so along the way, we’ll refine our communication approaches, too. To achieve this goal, we will aim for the following primary learning objectives: to better understand image as a product and process of rhetoric; and to write and speak about image with an informed understanding. To meet these primary objectives, I will help you to: define image in a way that includes ancient and modern conceptualizations of ethos; understand how image can be threatened by persuasive attacks, including accusations of offensiveness and responsibility; study how image attacks function in contexts such as politics, commerce, entertainment and public relations; consider W. Benoit’s image repair typology, analyzing its a) completeness; b) consistency; c) heuristic value; and d) applicability across rhetorical contexts; use W. Benoit’s typology as a rhetorical tool to engage in rhetorical analysis of image repair rhetoric; critique Benoit’s typology in particular and image repair analyses in general; consider P. Benoit’s image promotion typology, analyzing its a) completeness; b) consistency; c) heuristic value; and d) applicability across rhetorical contexts; use P. Benoit’s typology as a rhetorical tool to engage in rhetorical analysis of image promotion rhetoric; critique P. Benoit’s image promotion typology in particular and image promotion analyses in general; use writing and speaking to make discoveries about image; engage in image repair analysis by writing an image repair analysis paper; and prepare and share a surrogate (third-person) image repair persuasive speech. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback