Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Writing Courses Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-year Writing Choices Prizes ORC Description Speech 30 Share Speech 30: Speechwriting This course explores speechwriting as a process. Students will work independently and in peer groups to write speeches for themselves and for others. Students will also deliver speeches.Throughout the course, students will compare speechwriting with other types of writing, celebrating the unique challenges of writing for the ear. No prerequisites. Limited enrollment. Instructor: Compton. Distributive: ART. Offered: 21S: J timeslot (formerly 10A timeslot). Mode: Remote, entirely asynchronous. ORC: Speech 30 In this course, we will consider some challenges of writing speeches. As we move toward better writing for the ear, we will consult ancient and contemporary texts and practice the craft of speechwriting. To recognize the collaborative nature of speechmaking and speechwriting, we will work in peer groups for feedback, advice, and perspective. Students will not only write but also deliver speeches. We will pay close attention to the strengths and weaknesses of speech manuscripts, comparing manuscripts with extemporaneous, memorized, and impromptu approaches to speech. How can a speech set to paper resonate with the dynamism of spontaneous, heartfelt utterances? How can a speaker avoid rote memory while using a manuscript and sustaining crucial engagement with an audience? We’ll move back and forth between speaking and writing, seeing how each can inform the other. One of the means we’ll use to make these discoveries about speechwriting is dialogue. If we want our speeches to reflect the dynamism and collaboration of dialogue (and I argue that we do), we should use dialogue to build our speeches. I’m using dialogue here as a broad, general term—encompassing talk, conversation, speaking aloud. We will engage in dialogue, not just to audition our arguments and ideas, but also, to discover our arguments and ideas. There will be two longer speeches written and delivered during the term. You will also write and deliver a number of shorter speeches, including two speeches written for and delivered by other speakers. Speeches will be more formal than informal and will be evaluated as they are delivered. That is, we’ll assess speeches as speeches, not as writings. Note that we’ll average a little over one speech per week during the term, and each will involve pre- and post-speech writings. You’ll be asked to regularly post entries to our class blog on Blackboard, and you will also keep a Blackboard-based journal during the term to help monitor your progress in speechwriting and speaking. During the course, we will face a number of speechwriting challenges: How do we convert our ideas into spoken words of influence? How can we write more effectively for the ear? How can we reflect the spontaneity and dynamism of dialogue in a speech set to paper? To offer some answers to these questions and others, we’ll speak about speaking, write about speaking, speak about writing, and write about writing. Meta-communication—in many forms, across mediums—will play a central role in the course. Course Goals We will aim for two primary learning objectives: to become better speechwriters through informed practice of speechwriting; to help others to become better speechwriters through collaboration and constructive criticism. To meet these primary objectives, I will help you to: contrast speechwriting with other types of writing; discover and apply criteria of good speechwriting; experience writing speeches for oneself and for others; practice writing memorable and impacting phrases; assess and use strategic speech organizational strategies; advance positions regarding ethical considerations and challenges of speechwriting; improve skills of critical evaluation; improve public speaking delivery; demonstrate rhetorical flexibility; and write and deliver interesting speeches. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback