Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Writing Courses Speech Courses Placement and Enrollment Policies First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Share IWR Prizes Writing Prizes The Feinstein and Dickerson First-Year Writing Prizes albert-inskip-dickerson.jpg Photo: Albert Inskip Dickerson, Class of 1930 Writing Program awards two prizes for excellence in first-year writing: The Albert I. Dickerson Prize and the Feinstein Prize. The Dickerson Prize is awarded to the best essay in each of the following three categories: Writing 2-3, Writing 5/Humanities 1, or First-Year Seminar/Humanities 2. The Feinstein Prize, made possible by the Arthur Feinstein 1955 Memorial Fund, represents the overall best piece of writing in a first-year writing course. This award is drawn, by a committee of faculty judges, from the single best essay of all those essays that are nominated for the Dickerson Prize, so any essay submitted for the Dickerson Prize is automatically considered for the Feinstein Award. With both these prizes, therefore, the essay must first be nominated for the Dickerson Prize. Submissions All instructors in any first-year writing course may nominate for the Dickerson Prize one essay from each section of writing that they teach. For all of the Dickerson categories and all terms, the essay must be submitted by the instructor, with an acknowledgement that the student has consented to have the essay submitted, no later than June 15. The instructor should also attest that the nominated essay is the draft of the essay that the student submitted for the class; further revisions are not permitted. Faculty may contact writing.program@dartmouth.edu to request the link for submitting nominations. Speech Prizes Benjamin F. Barge Prize for Oratory The Benjamin F. Barge Prize for Oratory was established by Benjamin F. Barge (1832-1902) in 1901 and continued until 2004. After a six-year hiatus, the Institute for Writing & Rhetoric re-launched the Benjamin F. Barge Prize for Oratory in Spring 2010. The award is presented to a member of the senior class who is determined by a panel of three judges to "write and pronounce in public an English oration in the best manner." Judges are instructed to consider content and delivery equally when determining the winner of the contest. One senior student is named the winner and receives a medal and a cash award. The speech contest call for entries is posted on our website at this link. Class of 1866 Prizes for Oratory These prizes were established in 1905 by Waldemer Otis and Dr. James A. Spaulding, both members of the Class of 1866, and continued until 2004. There are two prizes, one to a senior and one to a first-year student, to be awarded "for excellence in original orations." Winners receive a cash award. The Institute re-launched the Class of 1866 Prizes for Oratory by awarding them in the May 19, 2011 speech contest. The speech contest call for entries is posted on our website at this link. Speech at Dartmouth Prize for Oratory Newly established in 2020, this prize will be awarded to one junior and one sophomore student. Winners will receive a cash award. The speech contest call for entries is posted on our website at this link. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback