Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Writing and Rhetoric Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Contact Us Writing.Program@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Back to Top Nav Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Back to Top Nav Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Back to Top Nav Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Back to Top Nav Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support Back to Top Nav News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 WRIT 5 Guidelines for Faculty Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Support WRIT 5 Course Outcomes WRIT 5 Course Descriptions Share Expectations for Writing 5 What can you expect of your students? Writing 5 is, for most Dartmouth students, the first exposure to the demands of college writing. While many students are competent high school writers, most do not yet understand the demands and conventions of academic prose. Many students entering your Writing 5 know what a thesis sentence is. They have been exposed to the general rules of paragraphing. They understand the sentence and its boundaries—though they sometimes run on, and they often make the mistake of putting their most important ideas into dependent clauses. But even though students enter Dartmouth familiar with these terms and concepts, they cannot perfectly implement them. Even students who have done well in high school will have to adjust to this new intellectual community and its practices. Moreover, though Dartmouth students are quite bright, many will enter your Writing 5 classroom with habits that you may want to break. Most common among these is the five-paragraph theme, in which students begin with a generalization, posit a thesis that has three points, craft three paragraphs to illustrate these points, and then conclude by making another generalization (or reiterating the one with which they began). Instructors beware: even longer papers of ten or fifteen paragraphs may be based on the five-paragraph-theme model. This approach to writing doesn't often produce good papers - students let the form dictate their thinking, rather than letting their thinking dictate the form. A second habit that you may want to break is your students tendency to nominalize—that is, to turn verbs into abstract nouns in order to sound more academic. Students might write, "It was not the intention of the Russian ambassador to bring the negotiations to a conclusion," when "The Russian ambassador did not intend to end negotiations" might be better. Nominalizing leads to several bad habits, including a tendency to use the passive voice or to overuse "There are/It is" constructions. To be fair, students mimic this habit because they have seen it in academic writing, but we should break this lamentable cycle. A few lessons in the elements of style will help students to build sentences with actors as subjects and with good, strong verbs. The point of these examples is to suggest that it is important to understand the writing, reading, and thinking habits that students bring with them to your Writing 5. If you understand your students' habits, you can help them form new ones. What does the Writing Program expect of you? The goals for Writing 5 are ambitious. Instructors are expected to introduce students to the conventions of academic discourse. They will sharpen students' critical thinking skills. They will introduce students to research by creating an assignment that requires students to find, evaluate, use, and cite secondary sources. Most important, they will teach their students to write. As in the other first-year writing courses, teaching writing will not depend simply on assigning writing—though writing will be assigned, and often. Instructors will frequently conduct writing workshops, confer regularly with students about their writing, provide careful and thoughtful feedback, and make good use of the collaborative learning and active learning ideas described throughout this website. For a more thorough description of the program's expectations, please see Writing 5 Guidelines for Faculty. We hope that you will especially note the following: Plan to spend substantial class time on student writing. Don't allow course readings to crowd out discussion of student work. Treat student work as another text for the class, using it as the basis for in-class writing workshops. See Conducting Writing Workshops for proven strategies. Require (and allow ample time for) revision. Most experienced writing teachers know that students learn to write not simply by writing, but by rewriting. Studies show that student writing improves when they are asked to work out the problems in an existing paper, rather than applying the instructor's comments to a new writing task. What do your students expect of you? Most students are enthusiastic about Writing 5—after all, they selected your section from the many listed online. Accordingly, their expectations are high. Students expect the classroom format to be discussion-based, not lecture-based. They want a class that is intimate not only in size but in character. Students want feedback from you on their writing. You should respond not only to the content of the writing, but also to its structure, form, and style. Students expect that you will return their papers to them in a timely manner, so that they have sufficient time to absorb and incorporate your comments before the next paper is due. Students expect that you will be accessible to them. They expect you to be available to meet with them in conference and in office hours throughout the term to discuss their progress. They also hope that you will respond to their emails. If you have questions about teaching Writing 5, please contact the Director of the Institute for Writing and Rhetoric. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Philosophy & Aims About Writing at Dartmouth Speech at Dartmouth Our Stories The Story of Writing Instruction at Dartmouth The Story of Speech at Dartmouth The Story of Writing Support at Dartmouth Curriculum Overview Writing Courses Writing 2-3 WRIT 5 First-Year Seminars Humanities 1-2 Speech Courses Speech 20 Speech 25 Speech 26 Speech 27 Speech 30 Speech 31 Speech 33 Speech 34 Speech 36 Speech 37 Speech 40 Placement and Enrollment Policies First-Year Writing & First-Year Seminar Requirements Differences Among First-Year Writing Courses FAQ Directed Self-Placement Process for Writing Registration for Writing 5 or Writing 2-3 Registration for First Year Seminars FAQ First-year Writing Registration First-year Writing Choices Prizes Writing Prize Winners Speech Contest Winners Speech Contest Call for Entries Learning Overview Writing Center Make an Appointment Materials Sources and Citations at Dartmouth Teaching Overview Guidelines Teaching Writing in the First Year Expectations for Writing 2-3 Expectations for Writing 5 Teaching the First-Year Seminar First-Year Writing: Pedagogies, Methods, & Design Active Learning in the First-Year Writing Classroom Syllabus and Assignment Design Teaching Writing as Process Integrating Reading and Writing Diagnosing and Responding to Student Writing Conducting Writing Workshops Collaborative Learning/Learning with Peers Teaching Argument Teaching Research Addressing Grammar Useful links Support The Writing Assistant Program Research Past Research Activities Research Overview Multilingual Overview Support for Undergraduate Students Support for Graduate Students Faculty Support News & People People News Employment Upcoming Events Past Events My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback