Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard College Writing Program | HARVARD.EDU Writing Center Writing Program Search Faculty Resources TF Resources Student Resources Writing Guides News People Contact The Harvard Writing Project supports excellence in writing instruction throughout Harvard College. HWP consultants work with faculty and teaching fellows to develop effective ways of assigning and responding to student writing. The HWP also collaborates with faculty and teaching fellows to develop writing guides tailored to specific courses or disciplines. ANNOUNCING FALL 2021 PEDAGOGY WORKSHOPS FOR TEACHING FELLOWS Harvard faculty or teaching fellows interested in discussing the role of writing in a course, TF training, or developing writing assignments and guides should contact Dr. James Herron, Director of the Harvard Writing Project, at jherron@fas.harvard.edu or call (617) 495-5785. HWP Consultations The HWP can help you become a better teacher of academic writing by offering advice on how to Writing at Harvard Online learning that lets you put scholarship into practice. [coming soon] Help for your paper at any stage of writing. Lectures about writing from across the Harvard community. A cross section of the best writing from students in Expos, as well as fiction and travel writing prize winners. Harvard Writing Project News Fall 2021 Term Pedagogy Workshops for TFs September 15, 2021 To request a workshop on writing pedagogy for teaching fellows in your course or department, contact James Herron here. Read more about Fall 2021 Term Pedagogy Workshops for TFs Updated Harvard Guide to Using Sources. August 27, 2021 The Harvard College Writing Program is pleased to announce the launch of an updated version of the Harvard Guide to Using Sources. Link here. Read more about Updated Harvard Guide to Using Sources. Visit the HarvardWrites Instructor Toolkit July 12, 2021 The HarvardWrites Instructor Toolkit is an online resource to assist instructors in assigning, teaching, and evaluating writing. Read more about Visit the HarvardWrites Instructor Toolkit More Subscribe to our mailing list HARVARD WRITING PROJECT One Bow Street | Cambridge, MA 02138 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement