Skip to content CUIMC Digital Strategy & Web Services Submit a Request Training Events Search About Us Our Team Our Services User Guides Support Creating Exceptional Web Experiences at CUIMC Your CUIMC Web Partner Ready to make your new CUIMC website into a great user experience? We are a talented team of web professionals who are the exclusive providers of the custom web solution for the CUIMC community. We’ll partner with you to launch your new site with great content and a design that makes sense⁠—while also still meeting CUIMC standards for brand identity and web accessibility⁠—and train you to confidently update and improve what your audience sees. From content to training to launch (and of course for support!) we’ll be with you every step of the way. Learn About Our Services Learn About Our Services Getting Started Find out how to get started making your new CUIMC website. Request A New Site Request A New Site Training & Support From user guides to training to issue resolution, we’re here to help. Get Support Get Support Training Schedule Open Office Hours for CUIMC Web Services Wednesday, June 1, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Zoom Web Content Strategy Training for CUIMC Websites Thursday, June 9, 2022 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM Venue Online Zoom Basic Distribution Training for CUIMC Websites Thursday, June 16, 2022 9:30 AM to 1:00 PM Venue Online Zoom View All Upcoming Training Sessions Announcements Video embed issue found on Mon 12/14/2020 that impacts Distribution sites A video embed issue was found that impacts Distribution sites. We are aware of the issue and are working on a solution as soon as possible. Phynd API outage found on Wed 11/25/2020 that impacts legacy sites The Phynd API is currently experiencing an outage that impacts legacy CUIMC sites. Phynd is aware of the issue and is working on a solution as soon as possible. Release v5.4x - v5.6x : Introducing Mega Menu Release notes for v5.4x - v5.6x. Release v5.3x: Introducing Condition, Treatment, and Specialty Content Types Release notes for v5.3x. View All Announcements Columbia University Irving Medical Center ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services User Guide Training Announcements Contact Us Digital Strategy & Web Services 701 West 168th Street Room 205 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top