Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Transportation It’s easy to get around Will I need a car? For many people, the answer is no. There’s a very efficient transit system to and from campus. It’s free for faculty, staff, and students. (Others can pay per ride or purchase a pass inexpensively.) Most students who bring cars find that they use the local transit system instead. They leave their cars parked most of the semester. Campus map Pullman map Buses and shuttle vans Around town and around campus Pullman Transit buses are free for students, staff, and faculty. Flash your Cougar Card to ride to nearby destinations on and off campus. To Spokane International Airport Wheatland Express offers for-fee shuttle service to Spokane International Airport. To Seattle Wheatland Express runs buses to and from Seattle during vacations (Thanksgiving, winter, and spring breaks), as well as on weekends. Taxi services College Cabs: 855-829-4487, college.gata@gmail.com Pro Cab LLC: 509-338-0500, procab99163@gmail.com Pullman Taxi: 509-339-9998 Ride sharing Rent a ride WSU Zimride is an online service to offer or request rides. You pay your share when you reserve your seat. Great for commutes, road trips, and popular events. Van pools A great way to cut commute expenses! You can park free during the day at Park and Ride lots. Catch a Pullman Transit bus from the lot to campus. The University coordinates van pools from these communities: Colfax Moscow Lewiston/Clarkston Valley Commuting from Spokane? Use Spokane Transit’s CommuteFinderNW to find a carpool or van pool. Rental cars Zipcars are shared cars parked on the Pullman campus. You can rent one for an hour to run errands or for a few days for a trip with friends. To rent a Zipcar, you must be: A university student, faculty member, or staff member A licensed driver At least 18 years old Bike sharing If you’re a student, a member of the WSU Student Recreation Center, or a member of the Chinook Student Center, you can borrow a bike (and helmet) for free. Safe nighttime transit Don’t want to walk home alone at night? Cougar Safe Rides offers WSU students and community members free rides within Pullman city limits. Call WSU-267-SAFE. Parking You need a permit to park on campus. Prices vary depending upon the type of parking permit you buy. Just visiting? You’ll need a visitor parking permit. Get yours for a nominal fee at the visitor center. Campus parking map Find zones where you can use your parking permit. Home football game traffic and parking On game days, expect detours and parking changes. Arrive early! Avoid traffic by using the free Game Day Park & Ride. Careers & Jobs Housing Community & Schools Visit Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension