Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Statewide reach Serving all of Washington state WSU fulfills its mission as Washington’s land-grant research university by reaching out. It delivers knowledge and the benefits of research activities to people throughout the state. Campuses Pullman | Spokane | Tri-Cities | Vancouver | Everett Global Campus (Online) Constituent organizations Alumni Association WSU Foundation Statewide programs and services Extension In each of Washington’s 39 counties Providing research-based educational programs and services—youth programs, civic leadership training, master gardener classes, and more— with measurable state impact Research and extension centers Mt. Vernon, Prosser, Puyallup, and Wenatchee Conducting research to sustain crop health and Washington growers’ productivity Center for Sustaining Agriculture and Natural Resources Scientists statewide Leading research and educational programs in agriculture, food and natural resources systems that are economically viable, environmentally sound and socially responsible Washington Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory Serving all 39 counties in Washington, most counties in Idaho and, to a lesser degree, all Pacific Northwest states as well as Alaska and Hawaii Delivering diagnostic services, consultation, disease surveillance, and outreach to safeguard animal health, the food supply, and public health Superintendent certification program WSU-certified superintendents in each of Washington’s 39 counties Training more of Washington’s public education superintendents than any other institution Office of Economic Development and External Affairs Seattle-based, working with leaders statewide Partnering with businesses to raise awareness of WSU research innovations, participate in expert panels and advisory boards, and connect to industry leaders in relevant fields of research Small Business Development Centers 25 locations statewide Promoting economic vitality by providing advice, training and research to entrepreneurs and existing businesses 4-H Youth Development Program Engaging nearly 80,000 youth annually in all 39 Washington counties Reaching out to kids and their families to build skills for life Conference Management Staff in Seattle and Pullman, events statewide Organizing conferences and educational events of all sizes Ste. Michelle Wine Estates WSU Wine Science Center Richland based, engaging collaborators from throughout Washington and beyond Providing research and education to support Washington’s $8.6 billion premium wine grape industry Online learning Online courses, degrees, and certificates Offering courses taught by WSU faculty, so you can earn a WSU diploma online Digital Academy Offering online courses for personal enrichment and professional development Economic impact WSU research fuels growth throughout Washington and beyond. Biofuels WSU researchers lead a $40 million U.S. Department of Agriculture grant that explores use of renewable forest materials to spawn an aviation biofuels industry. Wood-plastic composites About 15% of the $850 million annual North American market for wood-plastic composite decking products derives from research conducted at the WSU Composite Materials & Engineering Center. Food and agriculture Scientific advances made at WSU support Washington’s $49 billion food and agriculture economy. Wheat WSU’s world-leading experts in small grain genetics and breeding have helped to make Washington one of the most productive wheat growing regions on Earth. Tree fruit Washington’s more than $6 billion tree fruit industry leads the nation in production of apples, pears, and sweet cherries, thanks in part to WSU research and support. New apple varieties being developed at WSU will help drive future sales of the state’s leading agricultural commodity. Wine grapes WSU’s partnership with grape growers and winemakers helped create Washington’s $8.6 billion a year premium wine grape industry. Small businesses WSU hosts the Washington Small Business Development Center Network (SBDC), a statewide network of more than two dozen business advisors. Advisors help small business owners start, grow, or transition their businesses. From 2006 to 2016, Washington SBDC advisors worked with more than 20,000 entrepreneurs. Those clients credit SBDC advising with helping them start 1,012 businesses and create or save 13,816 jobs. On average, clients’ sales grew three times the statewide average. SBDC advisors serve the full spectrum of industries: manufacturing, technology, professional services, retail, and others. Their advising is confidential, tailored to the needs of each client, and provided at no cost to the business owner. Bringing new technologies to market Innovations and enterprises of WSU faculty and alumni have invigorated not only Washington’s economy, but the global economy as well. Among them: Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories (power systems protection), launched by alumnus Edmund Schweitzer Stratasys (3D printing), co-founded by alumnus S. Scott Crump, who pioneered 3-D printing technology METER Group, Inc. (scientific instruments), founded as Decagon Devices by WSU soil sciences professor Gaylon Campbell Digilent (technology-based educational design tools), co-founded by WSU electrical engineering professors Clint Cole and Gene Apperson Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension