Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © WSU Land Acknowledgement Acknowledgement of America’s First Peoples Washington State University acknowledges that its locations statewide are on the homelands of Native peoples, who have lived in this region from time immemorial. Currently, there are 42 tribes, 35 of which are federally recognized that share traditional homelands and waterways in what is now Washington State. Some of these are nations and confederacies that represents multiple tribes and bands. The University expresses its deepest respect for and gratitude towards these original and current caretakers of the region. As an academic community, we acknowledge our responsibility to establish and maintain relationships with these tribes and Native peoples, in support of tribal sovereignty and the inclusion of their voices in teaching, research and programming. Washington State University established the Office of Tribal Relations and Native American Programs to guide us in our relationship with tribes and service to Native American students and communities. We also pledge that these relationships will consist of mutual trust, respect, and reciprocity. As a land grant institution, we also recognize that the Morrill Act of 1862 established land-grant institutions by providing each state with “public” and federal lands, which are traced back to the disposition of Indigenous lands. In 1890, Washington State received 90,081 acres of Indigenous Lands designated to establish Washington State University (see data). Washington State University retains the majority of these lands to this day. We acknowledge that the disposition of Indigenous lands was often taken by coercive and violent acts, and the disregard of treaties. For that, we extend our deepest apologies. We owe our deepest gratitude to the Native peoples of this region and maintain our commitment towards reconciliation. List of Tribes and Nations whose Homelands are in Washington State All Tribes are federally recognized, except for those marked with an asterisk * are non-federally recognized. Some of the non-federally recognized tribes are in the process of being recognized. Washington (29 federally recognized, 7 non-federally recognized) Chinook Indian Tribe* Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation Confederated Tribes of the Chehalis Reservation Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation Cowlitz Indian Tribe Duwamish Tribe * Hoh Indian Tribe Jamestown S’Klallam Tribe Kalispel Tribe of Indians Kikiallus Indian Nation* Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe Lummi Nation Makah Tribe Marietta Band of Nooksack Tribe* Muckleshoot Indian Tribe Nisqually Indian Tribe Nooksack Indian Tribe Port Gamble S’Klallam Tribe Puyallup Tribe of Indians Quileute Tribe Quinault Indian Nation Samish Indian Nation Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe Shoalwater Bay Tribe Skokomish Indian Tribe Snohomish Tribe* Snoqualmie Tribe Snoqualmoo Nation* Spokane Tribe of Indians Squaxin Island Tribe Steilacoom Tribe* Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians Suquamish Tribe Swinomish Indian Tribal Community Tulalip Tribes Upper Skagit Tribe Idaho Coeur d’Alene Tribe Kootenai Tribes of Idaho Nez Perce Tribe Oregon Confederated Tribes of Umatilla Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension