Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Spectacular Shows Fill your senses with music, dance, art, and new ideas See chart-topping entertainers. Find endless options for fun. It’s no wonder that Pullman has been named Washington’s #1 best college town. On campus Entertainment, arts, and celebrations Beasley Coliseum Your destination for major WSU Pullman events Black History Month An annual February celebration Festival of Contemporary Art Music Celebrating contemporary art music and the composers who create it Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art Meaningful encounters with creativity and innovation School of Music Must-see events for music lovers Student Entertainment Board Art exhibits, concerts, movie screenings, and more Exhibits, lectures, and workshops Museum of Anthropology Archaeological collections from Eastern Washington, as well as objects representative of the culture of Native American tribes in the Inland Northwest since contact with Europeans Bear Center For research, education, and conservation of bears worldwide. See live grizzly bears! Conner Natural History Museum The largest public collection of preserved birds and mammals in the Pacific Northwest—more than 700 species James Entomological Collection Over 1.25 million specimens of insects and related arthropods, the majority from the Pacific Northwest Mycological Herbarium Approximately 70,000 specimens of fungi. Located in the Vogel Plant Biosciences Building. Visits by appointment. Geology museums The Jacklin Collection of cut and polished petrified wood, the Culver Study Memorial, and the S. Elroy McCaw Fluorescent Mineral Display Jewett Observatory A window to the heavens, with the largest refracting telescope in the state of Washington Ownbey Herbarium Nearly 350,000 specimens of plants and lichens Potter Memorial Lecture Series (Department of Philosophy) A lecture from an internationally known philosopher Student Entertainment Board Art exhibits, movie screenings, and more University Planetarium Take a sky tour, led by the Department of Astronomy Robert P. Worthman Veterinary Anatomy Teaching Museum Hundreds of preserved specimens of large and small domestic animals, birds, and wild species Off campus In Pullman Festival Dance and Performing Arts Performances by acclaimed ballet, modern dance, jazz, musical theater, and ethnic dance companies National Lentil Festival Food, music, arts and crafts—all in celebration of a wonderful little legume Palouse Choral Society Performing music from the Renaissance, Baroque and Classical periods, through to 20th century and contemporary choral works Palouse Discovery Science Center Hands-on activities let kids of all ages explore scientific concepts Pullman Civic Theatre Affordable, live entertainment for the community. Creative outlets and educational opportunities for theater participants of all ages. Pullman Farmers’ Market Fresh produce, crafts, music, and more, from mid-May through mid-October Regional Theatre of the Palouse Located in historic downtown Pullman Village Center Cinemas 8 screens of entertainment Washington Idaho Symphony Bringing live classical music to the people of the Palouse In neighboring towns Artisans at the Dahmen Barn A former dairy barn transformed into a center for regional, fine, and folk art. Located in Uniontown, 17 miles southeast of Pullman. Kenworthy Performing Arts Centre An historic (circa 1908) movie theater, concert hall, and home of Moscow Community Theater. Located in downtown Moscow, Idaho, 10 miles west of Pullman. Lionel Hampton Jazz Festival Renowned jazz masters join with students to celebrate a truly American form of music. Held at the University of Idaho in Moscow, 10 miles west of Pullman. McConnell Mansion Museum An historic 2-story house built in 1886, restored to reflect periods in its history. Located in Moscow, Idaho, 10 miles west of Pullman. Moscow Artwalk This annual June event takes you on a self-guided tour of Moscow businesses, each showcasing the works of regional artists or musicians. Moscow Farmers’ Market A Saturday morning event that celebrates local farmers, artists, craftspeople, and musicians. Held May through October in downtown Moscow, Idaho, 10 miles west of Pullman. Moscow Renaissance Fair An annual celebration of spring with artisans, food, music, crafts, and more. Held the first weekend of May in East City Park in Moscow, Idaho, 10 miles west of Pullman. Prichard Art Gallery Exhibits, community events, and workshops featuring University of Idaho students and local artists Rendezvous in the Park A mid-July outdoor concert series held in East City Park in Moscow, Idaho, 10 miles west of Pullman Third Street Gallery Displaying works of local and regional artists on the second and third floors of Moscow City Hall Entertainment all around you Another college town next door Just 7 miles east of Pullman lies the University of Idaho, which forms the heart of another college town called Moscow. With two towns just ten minutes apart, you can choose from twice as many entertainment options. Easy drive to major cities Eager to travel? It’s less than a day’s drive to any major city in the Pacific Northwest. Irresistible Eats Calendars & Tickets Breathtaking Sights World-Class Recreation Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension