Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Healthy Living The pace is slower. The skies are bluer. The future is brighter. More free time In Pullman, traffic jams are a distant memory. With just 20 traffic signals, rush “hour” lasts about 10 minutes. That means less stress and more time to chase your dreams. 12.3 MINUTES TYPICAL TRAVEL TIME TO WORK TRAVEL TIME TO WORK BY CITY (MINUTES) *Mean (midpoint) of commute times Source: City-Data.com Walk or bike to work and school Make your commute part of your daily exercise program! It’s easy to get around by bicycle and on foot. The city maintains 8 miles of paved bicycle and pedestrian paths. Plus, the 7-mile Bill Chipman Palouse Trail stretches all the way to Moscow, Idaho. Fun and fitness Get your move on! You won’t believe the variety of sports and recreational activities. Fresh, locally grown food Pullman lies at the heart of one of the world’s great agricultural regions. That means you can enjoy locally sourced foods and fabulous local dining. Eggert Farm, the University’s organic teaching farm, sells fresh produce directly to the community and to regional food cooperatives through a weekly farm stand (open 3–6 p.m. on Fridays). You can also buy fresh, local produce at farmers’ markets in Pullman and neighboring Moscow. If you’re a lentil lover, don’t miss the Legendary Lentil Cook-Off at the annual National Lentil Festival. “I love the small town atmosphere. I love being able to go home for lunch. I love being only 10 minutes from work. I’m happy I stumbled onto Pullman. It’s a great place to live.” Karen Garrett Desktop Support Manager, WSU Information Technology Commitment to sustainability In Pullman, it’s easy to be green Transportation You can get around easily using public transportation, carpools, and shared bikes. Recycling Pullman offers an efficient single-stream recycling program. Conservation The city offers education, rebates, and water-saving devices to encourage water conservation. Excellent health care services Clinic right on campus Cougar Health Services on the Pullman campus treats students who need general or urgent medical care. The accredited clinic is staffed with board certified physicians and experienced health care providers. A pharmacy is on site. Top local hospital Patient satisfaction is high at Pullman Regional Hospital. It earned an Outstanding Patient Experience Award (2020) from Healthgrades.com. Health sciences hub in nearby Spokane You’ll find specialists in all major areas of health care in Spokane, just a 90-minute drive away. WSU Health Sciences Spokane is home to the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine, as well as the College of Nursing and the College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. Health insurance for WSU employees WSU’s generous benefits package includes excellent medical insurance. Transportation Housing Community & Schools Careers & Jobs Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension