Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Leadership and Mission A commitment to service Washington State University is a public research university committed to its land-grant heritage and tradition of service to society. Leadership President Kirk H. Schulz has served as the 11th president of Washington State University since 2016. His annual State of the University address highlights past successes and current priorities, while charting a course for the future. University leadership Board of Regents Office of the President News and Notes column Office of the Provost University leadership Organizational chart Governing organizations Faculty Senate Administrative Professional Advisory Council Associated Students of WSU Associated Students of WSU Online Degree Programs Graduate and Professional Student Association Strategic initiatives and plan Strategic plan Executive Budget Council Outreach Government Relations WSU Extension Office of Economic Development and External Affairs Strategic planning The university’s 2020-25 strategic plan guides the evolution of its system of campuses. It identifies ways in which WSU can better serve the public good. Mission To advance knowledge through creative research and scholarship across a wide range of academic disciplines. To extend knowledge through innovative educational programs in which emerging scholars are mentored to realize their highest potential and assume roles of leadership, responsibility, and service to society. To apply knowledge through local and global engagement that will improve quality of life and enhance the economy of the state, nation, and world. What is a “land-grant” university? The Morrill Acts of 1862 and 1890 answered demand for practical education that was accessible to agricultural and industrial workers. The legislation granted federally controlled land to the states, which states could then sell to fund establishment of “land-grant” colleges. Curricula at land grant institutions served a broad swath of the population by focusing on agriculture and technical subjects. Ensuing legislation established an agricultural experiment station with each land-grant institution. Cooperative extension services were created to circulate information about the stations’ research findings. Washington State College was established in 1890 as a land-grant institution. It has become a distinguished public research university, but its mission remains rooted in accessibility and public service. Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension