Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © World-class recreation Countless ways to play Join your friends in exhilarating games, challenging workouts, and once-in-a-lifetime adventures. Fitness, sports, and fun Pac-12 athletics Cheer on the Cougs in 11 sports: football, basketball, baseball, soccer, track and field, golf, volleyball, swimming, cross country, rowing, and tennis. Award-winning fitness center Work out in the award-winning University Recreation Center. Personal trainers can help you start an exercise program and stay on track. Top-ranked golf course Links Magazine named WSU’s Palouse Ridge Golf Club  one of America’s top 2 collegiate courses. Intramural sports One of the nation’s largest intramural programs! Join more than 6,000 participants in 75+ activities. No experience or skill needed. Just play. Sport clubs Sport clubs run by students give you even more opportunities to compete. Arboretum & botanical garden Go for a jog or a stroll on wide, even trails at the University of Idaho Arboretum & Botanical Garden. Trees and shrubs from around the world span 63-acres. Open daily, dawn to dusk. Miniature golf Let the 18-hole miniature course at Airway Hills challenge your putting skills. Bowling Zeppoz bowling center is less than a mile and a half from the WSU campus. Garnet hunting Pluck genuine gems from a gravel-filled sluice box. The Emerald Creek Garnet Area is the only place in the western hemisphere where you can find precious star garnets. Trampoline park Jump, flip, and soar on 10,000+ square feet of interconnected indoor trampolines at Defy Trampoline Park. Spokane Hoopfest Play in the biggest 3-on-3 basketball tournament on the planet. Bloomsday Join 60,000+ people to run, jog, walk, or wheel in Spokane’s annual 12K extravaganza. Outdoor recreation Nowhere is the great outdoors more captivating than on the rolling hills, gentle rivers, and rugged mountains of the Palouse. From exquisite walks to extreme sports, you’ll find year-round recreation right in your backyard. WSU Outdoor Recreation Center Join your friends in discovering new places to play. Trips, classes, and clinics help you master new skills. The Palouse Scenic Byway offers scenic destinations for hiking, camping, mountain biking, skiing, climbing, rafting, and more Whitewater rafting Skiing and snowboarding Hiking Camping Horseback riding Pullman city parks More than a dozen public parks deliver spacious picnic areas and amazing playgrounds Hiking trails Formal gardens Community gardens Ponds with turtles and ducks Playfields Skate park 18-hole disc golf course Tennis and basketball courts Swimming pools Indoor aquatic and fitness center Irresistible Eats Calendars & Tickets Spectacular Shows Breathtaking Sights Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension