Skip to menu Skip to content WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU play VideoPause Video The WSU Difference Washington State University—Unlocking possibilities since 1890 When the world calls for better solutions and new approaches, WSU students, faculty, and alumni rise to the occasion. Go Cougs! Pullman | Spokane | Tri-Cities | Vancouver | Everett | Global Campus Research that improves lives Health, clean energy, food production, economic opportunity, security—advances made by WSU scientists raise quality of life worldwide. A top research university. WSU is among 115 out of 4,300+ US colleges and universities named as doctoral universities with the “highest research activity.” (Carnegie Classification, 2021). Professors are among the best in their fields, including members of the National Academies—the nation’s highest honor for scientific researchers. Learn More Education that opens doors WSU’s unwavering commitment: give students the tools they need to unlock untapped strengths. WSU offers 200+ fields of study, including majors, minors, certificates, and in-major specializations, to prepare students for the future they want. There are nearly 150 graduate and professional degree programs. Research opportunities, fieldwork, internships, in-depth labs, and study abroad programs inspire students to explore the world with passion and purpose. Apply Serving Washington State Serving Washington State Give to WSU WSU strengthens communities across Washington. Extension offices in every county partner with citizens to solve local issues. Thousands of WSU students serve their communities and beyond as volunteers, leaders in student organizations, peer tutors, and powerful role models. WSU boosts the state’s economy by billions of dollars a year. Plus, WSU researchers create jobs when they bring their innovations to market. Small Business Development Centers in 25 locations around the state supported over 20,000 entrepreneurs in the last decade. Renewable forest materials have spawned an aviation biofuels industry, thanks to WSU research leadership. The state’s $6 billion tree fruit industry works with WSU to improve apples, pears, sweet cherries, and more. WSU wine research supports Washington’s $8.6 billion premium wine grape industry. The Washington Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at WSU safeguards animal and human health throughout the state. A community of Cougs Whether it’s a classic college town experience, an urban campus, or a high-quality online presence, Cougs have a place to call home. WSU’s campuses—five locations across the state and the online Global Campus—help students create the WSU experience that’s right for them. Cougs are known for their friendly spirit. WSU campuses embrace students from 50 states, over 100 countries, and many cultures and backgrounds. A powerful network of more than 200,000 loyal Cougar alumni spans all 50 states and 146 countries. Alumni connections help to fast-forward fellow Cougs’ careers. Visit WSU © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU