Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Quick Facts WSU Pullman at a glance Life-changing research Health, clean energy, food production, economic opportunity, security—advances made by WSU scientists raise quality of life worldwide. 11 National Academy members 5 Grand Challenges: institutional research priorities Research and development expenditures (National Science Foundation) $345 MILLION TOTAL EXPENDITURES FOR THE WSU SYSTEM, FY 2019 Education that spurs action Majors for undergraduates 101 majors Research opportunities and internships inspire WSU students to explore topics with passion and purpose. Generous financial support In the 2019-20 academic year, WSU delivered $421.8 million in financial aid and scholarships for undergraduate students system-wide. 75% of WSU undergraduates received some form of financial aid. Graduate and professional programs Top students from 87 countries target critical national and global problems, mentored by professors who are leaders in their fields. 79 master’s degree programs 65 doctoral degree programs 3 professional degree programs: medicine pharmacy veterinary medicine Professional degree programs in medicine and pharmacy are offered at the WSU Spokane Health Sciences campus. 565 study abroad programs in over 70 countries Opportunities on all 7 continents (including Antarctica) deliver priceless lessons about culture, communication, and the common good. WSU students in front of the Matterhorn in Zermatt, Switzerland. Helping Washington and the world Each year thousands of WSU students serve the greater good as volunteers, leaders in student organizations, peer tutors, and stellar role models. 66,558 hours of civic engagement (2019-20) 5,741 participants (2019-20) Participation in civic engagement programs was greatly reduced in Spring 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A community of Cougs In the action-packed campus community, students forge lifelong friendships. The powerful network of Cougar alumni spans all 50 states and 139 countries. Diverse student population 19,900 students 30% multicultural From across America and around the world 50 states represented 1,603 international students from 98 countries LGBTQ-friendly Among the top 39 universities nationally for policies and practices supportive of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer students and allies (Campus Pride Index, 2021) Fun and academically supportive on-campus living 11% of new freshmen live on campus* 27 on-campus residence halls and apartment complexes 66 national fraternity and sorority chapters *The number of students living on campus in Fall 2020 was significantly lower than in previous years because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Huge choice of activities 260+ registered student organizations 4 student centers that build appreciation of cultural and ethnic diversity 9 Pac-12 Conference intercollegiate sports for women, 6 for men 6,000+ intramural sports players Fostering scholarly achievement More than a century of excellence Founded in 1890 as Washington’s original land-grant university Accessible faculty Low ratio of students to instructional faculty Approximately 16:1 Small undergraduate classes 81% have fewer than 50 students 11 colleges Advancing knowledge in hundreds of disciplines Vast library system 28 million+ items accessible through a library consortium Terrell Library Dome Unstoppable school spirit 179,758 WSU PULLMAN ALUMNI WORLDWIDE (2020) An alumni association that’s 41,000 members strong $125 MILLION IN PRIVATE SUPPORT FOR THE WSU SYSTEM (FY 2020) A loyal Cougar community WSU colors Crimson and gray WSU mascot Butch T. Cougar WSU fight song Fight, Fight, Fight for Washington State System that serves citizens statewide and worldwide Statewide enrollment at campuses and online* Pullman 19,900 students Spokane 1,727 Tri-Cities 1,716 Vancouver 3,504 Everett 291 Online (Global Campus) 4,021 Total enrollment 31,159* *2020 headcount enrollment reporting is based on the federal Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) definition, which excludes students enrolled exclusively in Education Abroad (E_A 300 class), Cooperative Agreement, and for audit only. Accreditation Washington State University is a member institution with the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU). Washington State University’s accreditation status is Accreditation Reaffirmed. The NWCCU’s most recent action on the institution’s accreditation status on July 27, 2018 was to reaffirm accreditation. Washington State University’s next institutional review is scheduled for Spring 2025. NWCCU is an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the US Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension