Skip to main content Skip to navigation Washington State University Search Contact Share Home About Quick Facts The WSU Difference Academic Excellence Statewide Reach Leadership & Mission Executive Officers Services WSU Land Acknowledgement Contact Us Community Life Overview Housing Transportation Calendars & Tickets Visit & Travel Jobs & Careers Things to Do Entertainment, Arts & Education Restaurants & Shopping Sports & Recreation Sightseeing Pullman Schools & Community Healthy Living Pullman History Admission Academics Research Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Global Campus (Online) Everett facebook twitter youtube Social media at WSU myWSU Access Policies © Rewarding Careers People from all walks of life follow their dreams to Pullman Jobs for professionals Higher education The largest employer in Pullman is Washington State University. Idaho’s flagship research university lies just 10 miles to the east in the city of Moscow. Together the two universities employ nearly 10,000 people. Experts in a vast range of fields find jobs at Washington State University and jobs at the University of Idaho. WSU offers staff and faculty a comprehensive benefits package that includes health care and dental care options, retirement plans, long-term disability insurance, paid time off, professional development, and a host of work/life quality programs. High technology Expanding technology center Pullman Industrial Park is the launchpad of a growing high-tech industry. Major employers include: Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories (power systems protection) Meter (scientific instruments) Digilent (technology-based educational design tools) Coalition for growth The Palouse Knowledge Corridor unites local leaders in high-tech fields. Together they support research and entrepreneurship, making the region a hub of job creation. Entrepreneurial opportunities Fertile ground for startups Whitman County has laid the groundwork to help new businesses prosper: Established communication networks Efficient transportation Affordable real estate Expert help for entrepreneurs Launching a new business? Take advantage of the expert guidance of Washington Small Business Development Centers. Seasoned advisors help inform your decisions, so your business can thrive. The advice is free. Want to spin off a company from your research? The WSU Office of Commercialization can help you find business partners, patent and license your innovations, and guide you through the maze of start-up funding. Health care More than 400 people serve the community through careers at Pullman Regional Hospital. Gritman Medical Center in nearby Moscow, Idaho, and various medical clinics also employ many health care providers. City and county government Careers in public service can be found in the City of Pullman and Whitman County. Look for more opportunities across the Idaho border in the City of Moscow and Latah County. Agriculture The Palouse region is one of the world’s top producers of wheat, barley, lentils, and dry peas. Resources for job opportunities in agriculture include the Pacific Northwest Farmers Cooperative and the USDA Dry Pea & Lentil Council. Retail Specialty stores and restaurants dot Pullman’s charming downtown district. There you’ll find a variety of job opportunities. Nationally recognized superstores are also major employers. “The potential to work on the genomics and biotechnology of some of the understudied plants such as apple, pear, cherry, and grapes attracted me to WSU Pullman. While one can always work on these plants at another place, the facilities and access to a very progressive industry linked with the University made the difference.” Dr. Amit Dhingra Associate professor, Department of Horticulture Student jobs & internships Finding a job The Academic Success and Career Center can help you find a job or internship while you’re in school. It can also prepare you to launch your career once you graduate. Services include: Student employment There are hundreds of employment opportunities on campus. Career coaching Coaches can help you navigate the career decision-making process. You can even enroll in courses about career exploration. Resume and cover letter assistance Find out how to make a memorable first impression. Career fairs Employers come to campus seeking talented future employees. Don’t miss your chance to network! Handshake job posting service Use it to help you find a job or internship. Many of the University’s 11 colleges offer additional resources to support job hunting. Contact your college for information. Transportation Housing Community & Schools Healthy Living Alumni & Giving Alumni Give On Campus Jobs Parking The Bookie Reference A-Z Index Map News Events Calendar Academic Calendar Accreditation Faculty, Staff & Students Faculty myWSU Workday Login Email Login Policies & Terms of Use Accessibility Policies Rule Making Copyright Athletics Varsity Sports Intramural Sports Sport Clubs Sport Camps Outdoor Recreation University Recreation Intercollegiate Athletics Budget WSU locations Pullman Spokane Tri-Cities Vancouver Everett Global Campus (online) Extension