COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Presidential Announcement15th President of Wichita State to be named May 6 What are you interested in? Find Majors & Programs Interactive Virtual Tour Schedule A Visit Calculate Cost The Wichita State difference Applied Learning As a Shocker, you'll get the chance to work side-by-side with established professionals, building contacts, confidence and a strong resume before graduation. Learn more Research With more than 30 renowned centers and institutes and state-of-the-art labs and research facilities, Wichita State students do real research that impacts the community, the economy and people's lives. Learn more Innovation At Wichita State, our students are the engine of innovation, with a collaborative infrastructure that helps develop new ideas, and get new projects and businesses off the ground. Learn more By the numbers High quality and affordable tuition make Wichita State a tremendous value. We're among the most affordable four-year colleges and universities. See how we stack up For 10 straight years, WSU has been the top transfer destination for Kansas community college students. Potential transfer students can see how the credits they have already taken can apply to different degrees by using our Transfer Gateway. Learn more Wichita State continues to rise in the National Science Foundation's ranking of U.S. college engineering R&D expenditures Learn more Since 2010, Wichita State University is one of the fastest-growing research universities in the United States. Learn more Happening at Wichita State Latest WSU News Upcoming Events Students From one senior to another, we'll get through this First Generation Wichita high school student wins first-gen scholarship Research WSU moves forward on National Institute for Digital Transformation Admissions Texas, Oklahoma, Missouri and Colorado cities get big tuition discounts Why Wichita State? Learn more about Wichita StateWSU Fast Facts 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State University keeps providing me with incredible opportunities I never imagined.Angelique Banh, graduate student in business administration Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©