Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Employment and Leadership Opportunities STUDENT ASSISTANT POSITIONS: Summer 2022 and Academic Year 2022-2023 For questions about any of the positions below, contact Andy Garate at agarate@fullerton.edu. Facilities Student Assistants The Facilities Student Assistants are student employees who work with the our Facilities Operations team to assist with the functions of student housing operations. This will include a variety of work assignments including light grounds keeping, minor plumbing repairs and tasks, minor lighting replacement, door lock repairs, painting, occasional custodial related tasks, moving of furniture and equipment, and trash and litter removal. Facilities Student Assistants are not required to live on-campus during their employment. We are accepting applications for Summer Facilities Student Assistants and Academic Year Facilities Student Assistants. Position description below. Facilities Student Assistant (Academic Year) Summer Facilities Student Assistant Office Assistants Office Assistants are student employees who will be responsible for a variety of work assignments, such as staffing the Housing Office front desk, Mailroom, and Academic Resource Center, responding to customer service issues, providing housing tours, assisting with lockouts and escorts, answering the phone, checking out equipment, and opening/closing public use spaces. Office Assistants are also responsible for preparing and setting up meeting rooms and event space for various programs and events within the Housing community. We are accepting applications for Summer Office Assistants and Academic Year Office Assistants. Office Assistants are not required to live on campus during their employment. Position description below. Office Student Assistant (Academic Year) Summer Office Student Assistant Summer Conference Assistants Summer Conference Assistants are student employees who work with our Summer Conferences Team to assist with the administrative and customer service functions of student housing summer operations. This will include a variety of work assignments including providing staff support for the Housing Office, assisting summer conference guests and residents, check-in/check-out of conference groups, preparing and delivering linens to conference guests, serving evening and weekend duty to ensure the security of the community, and responding to after-hours emergency calls. The SCA receives a free single-occupancy room and a single room in an on-campus apartment and a meal plan for use when the Gastronome is open is provided at no cost as remuneration for on-call responsibilities. Position description below. Summer Conference Student Assistant Important Dates Online Application Opens - Thursday, March 10, 2022 at 10 a.m. Online Application Closes - Friday April 8 , 2022 at 11:59 p.m. In-Person Interviews - April 18-22, 2022 Click here to access the online application Qualifications, Requirements, and Compensation Refer to the position descriptions for each position for minimum qualifications, special requirements, and compensation information. Resident Advisors Position Academic Year 2022-2023 Resident Advisors (RAs) are CSUF student leaders who live in the residence halls and apartments. RAs create connections with residents and host events for students in housing in order to build community and provide co-curricular learning opportunities. RAs are familiar with campus policies, departments and resources and promote student success through measures of safety and security, peer support and referrals, as well as campus engagement. Time Commitment The RA position requires about 20 hours per week. If accepted for the role and pending Supervisor approval, you may not exceed more than 10 hours of responsibilities outside of academics. Historically, the 10 hour per week allotment of responsibilities includes work, clubs, and any other organizations. If selected for the position, you will be required to attend a mandatory weekly staff meeting from 4 – 6 p.m. on Thursdays. In addition, the RA position requires some evening and weekend commitments, this includes serving on an overnight duty rotation. Compensation Compensation for Resident Advisors consists of a meal plan with $200 per semester in declining balance and a single bed space in Student Housing. As a result of receiving this compensation, the RA position requires you to live on-campus and maintain a presence in the housing community on most days. Requests to be off-campus for multiple days in a row requires approval from your supervisor. Application The application for these positions will be available in the CSUF Student Housing Portal, and consists of the following compenents: Demographic information and responses to application questions Uploading a résumé Attend an in-person Resident Advisor Info Session or you can join the session virtually here . Acknowledgement of the position's Terms and Conditions and our COVID-19 agreement. Required In-person Information Sessions To learn more about the position, we require all candidates to attend one in-person information session in order to consider their application complete. Please visit this page to sign up for the session you plan to attend . If you're unable to attend the session in-person, you can join the session virtually here. Resident Advisor Info Session Times Date Time Location Wednesday, December 15 1 – 2 p.m. Pine 111 Thursday, December 16 2 – 3 p.m. Pine 111 Wednesday, January 26 12 – 1 p.m. Zoom Friday, January 28 1 – 2 p.m. Zoom Optional Office Hours If you have questions about the Resident Advisor application or the role in general, we will be offering office hours with the RA Recruitment and Selection committee. If you're interested, please sign up here. These office hours are optional, and attendance is not required in order to apply. Optional Office Hours Date Location December 20: 3 – 4 p.m. Online via Zoom: http://tinyurl.com/CSUFRA January 4: 3 – 4 p.m. January 28: 3 – 4 p.m. Resident Advisor Selection Timeline: new ra applicants Online Application Opens in the Student Housing Portal: Wednesday, December 6, 2021 at 10 a.m Online Application Closes for new Resident Advisor Candidates: Monday, January 31, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. Notification of Invite to Socials for New Candidates: Friday, Febuary 4, 2022. Socials will held on the following dates: Tuesday, February 15: 4 – 5:30 p.m. Thursday, February 17: 6 – 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 18: 1 – 2:30 p.m. Individual interviews: Tuesday, February 22 – Friday, March 4 Decisions sent via email: Friday, March 11, 2022 Spring Welcome: Friday, March 18, 2022 Resident Advisor Selection Timeline: returning ra applicants Online Application Opens in the Student Housing Portal: Wednesday, December 6, 2021 at 10 a.m. Online applicantion closes for returning and senior RA applicants: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 at 11:59 p.m. Returning and Senior Resident Advisor Interviews: January 24 – February 4, 2022 Decisions sent via email: Friday, March 11, 2022 Spring Welcome: Friday, March 18, 2022 Position Description, responsibilities, and expectations For more information about the Resident Advisor position, qualifications, compensation, responsibilities, and expectations for members of the Residential Engagement team, please read the position description below. Read the Resident Advisor Position Description » Resources Titan Résumé Builder - Career Center Résumé Writing Tips Instant Résumé Helper Action Verbs Recorded Résumé Webinars Sample Résumés If you have any remaining questions about the RA recruitment process for the 2022-2023 academic year, please contact Jennifer Ortiz. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.