Virtual Training - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide UH Home Human Resources Talent Development Virtual Training Page contents: Virtual Training Session from HR CATALYST@Home New CATALYST Enrollment App Virtual Training To meet the training needs of our UH community, Human Resources is offering live virtual training programs covering a variety of topics. These programs will include training from Talent Acquisition and Management, the Human Resources Business Partners, and Talent Development. Virtual Training Sessions CATALYST Online Introducing CATALYST Online, live virtual development courses for UH Staff. The CATALYST Online offerings include some of the most popular CATALYST classroom courses, as well as new subjects relevant to today's work environment. There are classes for every role. You can search classes for individual contributors, Supervisors, Managers, and Senior Leaders. Some of the many courses in our course catalog include: Discovering the Different Communication Styles, Communicating with Virutal Teams, Exploring Leadership, Franklin Covey's The 6 Critical Practices for Leading a Team, and much more! To view a full list of courses and enroll, visit the CATALYST Enrollment APP. Taleo Fluid Recruiting Taleo Fluid Recruitment training is designed to train supervisors and managers through the process of using the new and improved Taleo system. This training will guide hiring managers on how to effectively use the Taleo system to continue to review, interview, and hire employees. For questions regarding this training, please contact hremploy@uh.edu. Log into PASS and enroll in course HRVRT1. LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning offers a customized learning experience that features instructional content relevant to your professional interests and goals. UH Employees have unlimited access to more than 5,000 video tutorials covering business, creative and technology topics. Click Here for a list of recommended courses from LinkedIn Learning! New Catalyst Enrollment App! We are excited to announce the launch of the new CATALYST enrollment web application! Features of the new application include a self-service portal where users can: Enroll in live virtual CATALYST development courses View enrollment requests and completed CATALYST courses Access course materials and resources You will need to log-in to the portal using your Cougarnet credentials, and when prompted click "Allow". Want the CATALYST app on the go? Download the "Power Apps" application from the App Store or Google Play Store, login with your CougarNet credentials and select the CATALYST Enrollment app! If you have issues with logging in or need to reset your Cougarnet password, please visit https://uh.edu/cougarnet-wizard. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies