Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Human Development and Community Engagement Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Human Development and Community Engagement Major Apply Visit Request More Info Human Development and Community Engagement Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Human Development and Community Engagement Major The Bachelor of Science in Human Development and Community Engagement prepares students to make a difference in people’s lives by influencing the programs, policies, and practices of organizations. Students build the skills required to facilitate the cognitive, physical and social development of individuals, particularly in urban communities. Through a yearlong practicum and internship, students gain practical, hands-on experience while serving people in the local community. This flexible, interdisciplinary degree enables students to use a variety of interventions to effect community and individual change by covering topics such as communication, curriculum and training design, human development, program evaluation and understanding urban communities. Concentrations In order to tailor the degree to students’ interests, majors also take courses in the program’s concentration areas. Students choose one of these four concentration options. Applied Behavior Analysis Specialize your knowledge in applied behavior analysis. Apply behavior analytic skills to address important problems in society across a variety of settings including behavioral health, community organizations and educational institutions. Become eligible to apply for Board Certified Assistant Behavior Analyst certification. Community Education Hone your interest in community-related educational settings. Master the theories and techniques necessary to teach effectively outside the classroom. Learn to tailor instructional approaches to the unique circumstances of widely diverse communities. Prepare for careers in community and recreation centers, early learning centers, museums, out-of-school-time programs and more. Human Services Human services is a broadly defined field that seeks to improve the overall quality of life of individuals (with particular focus on children and vulnerable populations) through the prevention and remediation of problems. You’ll gain a theoretical and practical understanding of various psychological constructs at the individual and societal level. You’ll also lay the foundation for graduate study programs such as counseling psychology, school psychology and social work. Non-Profit Management and Social Entrepreneurship Gain an understanding of the nonprofit sector and for-profit organizations focused on cultural, environmental and social change. Form insight about the issues that leaders face in this growing field, and learn how to communicate in order to lead systemic change in communities and organizations. Study the design and structure of financial management, nonprofit and social enterprise organizations, revenue generation, and strategic and project-based management. Related Graduate Degrees A graduate degree deepens your expertise and fosters career advancement in human development-related fields such as organizational management, social work, and urban education among others. The Bachelor of Science in Human Development and Community Engagement can serve as a pathway to all graduate programs in the College of Education and Human Development. View the full list of the College of Education and Human Development’s graduate degree and graduate certificate programs. +1 Accelerated Programs For particularly focused students, the College of Education and Human Development offers accelerated programs. Qualified students earn bachelor’s and master’s degrees in one five-year course of study instead of the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Education and Human Development’s +1 accelerated programs. Eligible Human Development and Community Engagement majors can follow an accelerated path toward an Adult and Organizational Development MEd, Applied Behavioral Analysis MSEd or Urban Education MEd. Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. It also presents opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Explore the opportunities available through organizations such as Be The Change, an organization that provides education and healthcare services to communities in North Philadelphia and overseas; Black Diamonds Union, which works to celebrate and disseminate education about black culture at Temple University and in Philadelphia’s wider urban community; College of Education and Human Development Student Council, a group that provides students with leadership opportunities and a chance to effect change; Grandma’s Kids, a K–5 afterschool program that focuses on homework, as well as academic, emotional and social support; Human Development and Community Engagement Club, which provides networking and service opportunities, professional development workshops, career exploration, and social events for students within the Human Development and Community Engagement major; Jumpstart, a national early education organization that trains students to work with preschool children in low-income neighborhoods; Kappa Delta Pi Honor Society, which promotes academic excellence and a network for those who are committed to teaching; The Petey Greene Program at Temple University, an organization that supports prisoner education by training volunteers to provide weekly tutoring sessions to inmates in four correctional facilities in Philadelphia; Temple University - Students Teaching Underrepresented Developing Youth (TU-STUDY), a group that assists children and adults in the greater Philadelphia area with advising, tutoring and other kinds of support in overcoming learning challenges; and Treehouse Books, a literacy center near Temple’s Main Campus where students can engage in literacy service work. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Kelly McGinn, assistant professor, is the faculty program coordinator of the Bachelor of Science in Human Development and Community Engagement. Phone: 215-204-1594 Email: kelly.mcginn@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. College of Education and Human Development students are encouraged to see an academic advisor every semester. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-HDCE-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Human Development and Community Engagement Major Admissions Information Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info