Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Diversity and Inclusivity You are here Home Life at Temple Diversity & Inclusivity Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library We are committed to upholding an inclusive and equitable community for all. Temple University is dedicated to building a diverse, vibrant educational community grounded in appreciation for others, open-mindedness and respect. The university was founded on the principle that access to education is a right for everyone. As part of our commitment to inclusive excellence and equity in education, Temple upholds the belief that each student, faculty and staff member’s voice and experiences count and are equally integral to who we are. It is our shared responsibility to enhance the quality of life for everyone at Temple. We provide a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to grow, learn and work, thus realizing the transformational power of being a part of the Temple community. At Temple, every student is valued. Our universitywide initiatives, academic programs, resources and research are rooted in equality and empathy so that everyone has the support and resources they need during their time here. Everyone should feel empowered to be themselves, be open to new experiences and be a part of solutions to pressing challenges, and we are our students’ greatest advocates while they are here. To do this, Temple emphasizes and welcomes authentic conversations about real problems on our campuses, nationwide and in the world, and we believe that this is key to an open, inclusive and safe campus environment. We continually evolve over time to address important topics and make necessary change. Discrimination in any form is not tolerated at Temple. All students and all members of the Temple community are encouraged to be who they are without fear or judgment. Learn more about the university initiatives, programs, resources and services intended to help everyone feel safe and free to find their place at Temple. Read Their Stories Temple Thought Leaders Temple’s students, faculty, staff and alumni are teachers, advocates, innovators, policymakers and mentors. They bring to our community a vast knowledge base that serves as the foundation for important transformation, here at Temple and around the world. Discover more about the people changing the dialogue and impacting society—and empowering us to do the same. Read Their Stories Read the stories about Temple's thought leaders. Contents Anti-racism InitiativesOffice of Diversity, Equity, and InclusionHealth and Well-beingAccess and AccommodationsPreferred Names, Pronouns and Gender IdentitySupport for International StudentsEthics and ComplianceStudent Organizations University Anti-racism Intiatives In 2020, Temple committed $1 million to combat racism. This is our promise to identify new ways we can address racism on our campuses, in Philadelphia and in society at large. Our initiatives include campuswide anti-racism training and core curriculum changes, reinvesting in anti-racism education, creating the Center for Anti-racism Research, prioritizing recruitment and retention of faculty and employees of color, establishing a bridge program for North Philadelphia youth to create better pathways to higher education, and much more. Learn more about the university’s pledge to combat racism and support anti-racism education and programming. Read the Full Announcement Temple University's Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL), Title IX and Equal Opportunity Compliance comprise the university’s Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, which seeks to engage and empower our evolving community of students, faculty and staff. https://diversity.temple.edu/ideal/about-ideal IDEAL IDEAL is dedicated to creating brave spaces and nurturing a strong, inclusive campus community. Visit the IDEAL website and see how it actively champions students by providing safe environments for discussing diversity issues, and how it elevates the diverse perspectives of our students, faculty, staff and neighbors. Learn more about IDEAL and what resources it provides the Temple community Title IX Title IX is a federal law that ensures every member of the Temple community has equal access to the university’s educational resources, full participation in all of Temple’s activities and protection from discrimination based on sexual identity. Learn More About Title IX Equal Opportunity Compliance Temple’s policies prevent and address unlawful discrimination and harassment, and an Affirmative Action Program for equal opportunity in employment. Equal Opportunity Compliance (EOC) at Temple supports the university’s efforts and policies with information, assistance and complaint resolution. Learn More About EOC Health and Well-being We know that navigating college can be challenging for our students. We provide support systems and resources to help students manage the demands of college and set them on a pathway for success. https://counseling.temple.edu/ Tuttleman Counseling Services Tuttleman Counseling Services provides students support for their mental health needs, including individual and group counseling, as well as specialized and psychiatric services. Through its informal, professional environment, students can access resources and feel safe and comfortable doing so. Learn more about how Tuttleman helps students during their time at Temple. Visit the Tuttleman Counseling Services website Wellness Resource Center The Wellness Resource Center offers creative and innovative programs to provide students with what they need to thrive during their time at Temple. Through workshops, personal wellness consultations and more, students have opportunities to learn how to make empowered, informed decisions while in college. Visit the Wellness Resource Center Student Health Services Student Health Services provides students with affordable, accessible and high-quality primary healthcare. Located on Main Campus, Student Health Services is staffed with board-certified physicians, nurse practitioners, registered nurses and medical assistants to meet students’ healthcare needs. Visit Student Health Services Cherry Pantry The Cherry Pantry combats hunger in the Temple community by supplying nutritious emergency food while providing equal treatment to all visitors. Visit the Cherry Pantry Website Learn About Other Food Pantries Access and Accommodations Temple prioritizes the right for people of all abilities to fully participate in the university’s programs, resources and services, and we work to ensure students have an equitable experience across our campuses. https://disabilityresources.temple.edu/ Disability Resources and Services Disability Resources and Services provides access, accommodations and opportunities for students to ensure that people of all abilities have the opportunity to fully participate in classes and activities. It develops programs and workshops to support students and provides training and awareness about access and inclusion to the entire Temple community. Visit the Disability Resources and Services website Assistive Technology Temple University works with students, faculty and staff to ensure that facilities, information and technology it creates or provides are accessible in accordance with applicable law. You can request disability services such as assistive technology, be matched with a peer mentor and request accommodations. Learn More About Assistive Technology Temple ROUTE Temple ROUTE is an interactive map of Main Campus to help you find accessible paths, including building entrances, parking and restrooms. View the Map /life-temple/diversity-inclusivity/preferred-name-use Preferred Name Use Temple believes that identity is critical to who you are. We honor individuals by providing a process that allows you to use your preferred name in the campus community. Learn more about preferred name use at Temple. Read more about how to use your preferred name at Temple. /life-temple/diversity-inclusivity/pronoun-use-and-gender-identity Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple recognizes the importance of providing students, faculty, staff and alumni the option to indicate their preferred pronouns and gender identity. Find out more about pronoun use and gender identity at Temple. Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Support for International Students Office of International Affairs The Temple community comprises students from all over the world—approximately 3,000 international students study at Temple. Our international students always have a home here. Temple’s Office of International Affairs ensures that international students have the needed resources and support for success, recruit a diverse international student body, and encourage students to study abroad. Visit the Office of International Affairs #YouAreWelcomeHere Scholarship Temple’s #YouAreWelcomeHere scholarship recognizes promising international students with a vision for enhancing intercultural understanding. Each year, the university selects two first-year students to receive an annual, renewable scholarship. See Scholarship Information /about/ethics-compliance Ethics and Compliance Office The Ethics and Compliance Office seeks to provide all members of the Temple community with the guidance needed to uphold the highest standards of integrity. The office is directly available to anyone who has questions, would like to discuss an ethical dilemma, provide information about a potential violation, or receive guidance on relevant rules and procedures. Visit the Ethics and Compliance Office website Student Organizations Through OWL Connect, you can find student organizations and opportunities that help you discover and engage with peers, align with your personal goals and values, develop and expand your interests, lead initiatives that are important to you, and become more involved on campus and in Philadelphia. Explore student organizations at Temple. Visit OWL Connect Go back to Life at TempleMore in Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Temple Thought Leaders Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.