Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Academics Explore One of the Top Ranked University Libraries Libraries Reinvention and innovative research are at the core of the UCLA identity. And it’s evident in the caliber of our library, which is consistently ranked among the top academic libraries in the country. With a collection of over twelve million books and 100,000 serials, the University of California, Los Angeles, library system is one of North America's largest academic research libraries. Whether on campus or online, the UCLA Library preserves cultural heritage and makes knowledge accessible. Our library system serves students, faculty and researchers of all disciplines. It is one library with many physical locations fostering productive partnerships with different communities all over campus and providing easy access to expertise, collections and services. The UCLA Library locations play an essential role in supporting the broadest possible public access to knowledge and the historical record. Together, the 10 UC campus libraries have more volumes than the Library of Congress — and as part of the UC system, Bruins can tap into all the richness of information contained in these world-class collections. Library staff members offer students free assistance with research and writing and can help members of the community find answers and access resources quickly. UCLA Library Library Catalog Campus Locations Open Access Research Publications 12 Million Print and Electronic Volumes 2nd Largest Research Library by Titles Held 15 Million+ Virtual Visitors Online Primary Research Materials The Library discovers and acquires materials across many subjects and formats to support scholars’ needs. Library staff members collaborate with UCLA researchers to build and curate unique collections that anticipate their needs and interests. Our special collections and archives are important primary research materials. The Library works with organizations around the world to digitize their collections for preservation and provide worldwide access. Digital Collections Online Exhibitions More Special Collections Biomedical Library History and Special Collections Research Library Special Collections Clark Library (17th and 18th Century Studies) Richard C. Rudolph East Asian Library (Chinese, Japanese, Korean languages) Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies Library and Media Center American Indian Studies Center Library Asian American Studies Center Reading Room Chicano Studies Research Center Library University Archives (History of UCLA) More Archives Air Photo Archives Ethnomusicology Archive Film and Television Archive California Digital Library Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept