Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CBS: Disruptive Digital Transformation Events Past Event CBS: Disruptive Digital Transformation Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo February 16, 2022 5:00 PM - 6:00 PM America/Los_Angeles Online Event Disruptive Digital Transformation: Wielding your data and analytics competency for digital transformation success The Asian Alumni Club of New York and the Alumni Club of San Diego invite you to a virtual fireside chat featuring: Eric Haller '18SPS, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Identify, Fraud, and DataLabs at Experian, Board Member, Board of Overseers, Columbia University School of Professional Studies Oded Netzer, Arthur J. Samberg Professor of Business, Columbia Business School, advisor to global companies on data-driven decisions Data and analytics are the key accelerants of an organization’s digitization and transformation efforts. A digital transformation can help re-engineer, automate and infuse intelligence across key business functions to reduce costs and speed time to market. An increasing number of organizations are data-driven; analytical tools are becoming in widespread use, requiring even more reliable data. Data Science, AI, and Machine Learning sustain high levels of innovation during trying times. At the end of this event you will increase your understanding of the following: Major data and analytics trends in 2022. The best areas of the organization where a digital-first approach can provide the biggest impact. Quantitative intuition – making decisions in a data-driven world. The opportunities and challenges with AI in marketing, identity verification, and fraud prevention. Low-code platforms and their potential for enabling effective use of machine learning. RSVP: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/disruptive-digital-transformation-tickets-253821636347 Contact Information Alan Hoffmanner [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close