Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU SMU Facts About SMU / SMU Facts / Prominent alumni Prominent SMU Alumni SMU has 126,695 alumni worldwide, with 57,049 in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Notable alumni include: Public Service Laura Bush, former First Lady of Texas and the United States The late William P. Clements, Jr., former Texas governor and Deputy Secretary of Defense Antonio O. Garza, Jr., former U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Current and former U.S. House of Representatives members John Culberson, Ralph Hall, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Sam Johnson and Lamar Smith Robert Haley, medical researcher who defined Gulf War Syndrome The late Roy M. Huffington, former U.S. Ambassador to Austria Karen Hughes, former Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Air Force General Craig R. McKinley, member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Harriet Miers, former Counsel to President George W. Bush Jeanne L. Phillips, former U.S. Representative to the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development The late R. Richard Rubottom, former Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs and Ambassador to Argentina Rick Scott, governor of Florida The late John G. Tower, former U.S. senator Science and Education Michael Bunnell, winner of 2010 Scientific and Engineering Academy Award The late Nobel Prize-winning physicist James Cronin Computer memory pioneer Robert Dennard Former University of Texas-Austin President Larry R. Faulkner University of North Texas Chancellor Lee Jackson Donde Plowman, Chancellor, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Performing Arts, Visual Arts and Communication Jane Chu, chair, National Endowment for the Arts Academy Award-winners Kathy Bates, actor; William Joyce and James V. Hart, filmmakers; and Ron Judkins, sound Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Beth Henley Golden Globe-winning actor and playwright Regina Taylor Actors Amy Acker ("Person of Interest," "Cabin in the Woods"); Brian Baumgartner ("The Office"); Katie Featherston ("Paranormal Activity"); Clarence Gilyard ("Die Hard," "Walker Texas Ranger"); Lauren Graham ("Parenthood," "Gilmore Girls"); Belita Moreno ("George Lopez," "Family Ties"); Patricia Richardson ("Home Improvement," "West Wing"); and Stephen Tobolowsky ("Glee,” "Groundhog Day") Tony Award-winning actors Michael Aronov, Debra Monk and Scott Waara; and choreographer Andy Blankenbuehler Emmy Award-winning television producer Aaron Spelling (deceased) Country music singer Jack Ingram Artist John Alexander (MOMA, Smithsonian and more) Parisa Khobdeh, George Smallwood and Michael Trusnovec, dancers, Paul Taylor Dance Company David Bennett, director, San Diego Opera Julie Rieger, president, chief data strategist and head of media, 20th Century Fox Marc Patrick, senior global brand director - specialty categories, Nike Law The master’s degree program in comparative and international law of Dedman School of Law has graduated more than 1,400 lawyers from more than 75 countries. Many have since occupied prominent leadership positions around the world, including: Nathan Hecht, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Texas Two Supreme Court Justices in Japan and one in the Philippines President of the Thailand Senate Minister of Justice in Argentina Member of the Brazilian Supreme Court of Accounts Business Nadja Swarovski Adams, chairwoman of Swarovski Entertainment Gerald Alley, founder, president and CEO, Con-Real Thaddeus Arroyo, CEO, AT&T Business Solutions and International Amber Venz Box and Baxter Box, founders, rewardStyle and LIKEtoKNOW.it Alex Cruz, chair and CEO, British Airways David Cush, former president and CEO, Virgin America Robert H. Dedman, Jr., president and CEO, DFI Management, Ltd. Martin Flanagan, president and CEO, Invesco Ltd. Whitney Wolfe Herd, founder and CEO, Bumble; co-founder, Tinder Ray L. Hunt, executive chair, Hunt Consolidated, Inc. Kevin Lavelle, founder and CEO, Mizzen+Main Bobby B. Lyle, Chairman, President & CEO, Lyco Holdings Incorporated Kenneth R. Morris, co-founder, PeopleSoft Blake Mycoskie, founder and chief shoe giver, TOMS Melissa Reiff, CEO, The Container Store Edward B. Rust, Jr., chair, State Farm Insurance Companies John Santa Maria, CEO, Coca-Cola Femsa Carl Sewell, chair, Sewell Automotive Companies John Tyson, chair, Tyson Foods Brittany Underwood, founder and president, Akola Project Richard Weekley, co-founder, David Weekley Homes Athletics Olympic gold medal swimmers Ryan Berube, Lars Frolander and Steve Lundquist; and gold medal track and field athlete Kevin Robinzine Rodney Harmon, U.S. Olympic tennis coach Clark Hunt, chair of the board, Kansas City Chiefs, NFL The late Lamar Hunt, founder of the American Football League Pro Football Hall of Fame members Raymond Berry, Eric Dickerson, Forrest Gregg (deceased), the late Lamar Hunt and the late Doak Walker Jerry LeVias, National College Football Hall of Fame and NFL Rookie of the Year James Irsay, owner and CEO, Indianapolis Colts, NFL The late Payne Stewart, championship golfer The late Doak Walker, recipient of football’s Heisman Trophy SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"