Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Apply to Xavier Xavier’s admission process is highly selective. Our students demonstrate strong academic talent, personal integrity and commitment to community and social justice. Take the next step and apply to join the Xavier family. Freshman Applicants Apply starting August 1 using the Common Application or Xavier application. Begin Application Graduate Applicants Start a new application or log into your existing application account. Begin Application Transfer Applicants Select the Adult or Transfer application. Begin Application International Applicants For students from countries outside the U.S., select the type of admission and then follow the step-by-step process. Begin Application Adult Applicants Choose the correct enrollment year and then select the Adult or Transfer application. Begin Application SECOND BACHELOR'S DEGREE If you have already spoken with the ABSN admissions team, choose your enrollment term, then select the ABSN application. Begin Application Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram