Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Game Changers Tomorrow's Leaders Real-World Experience Opportunities for All Orange Community Home Where Game Changers Rise Connecting a Proud Community Connecting a Proud Community As members of the Syracuse University community, our students join a worldwide network of innovators and creative solution-finders who share pride in being Orange. Connecting Students and Alumni Our expansive alumni network gives its time, talent and treasure to connect students with opportunities, knowledge and experiences that prepare them for a lifetime of success. At our satellite campuses in Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, D.C., students gain firsthand experience and networking opportunities through internships offered by alumni in public policy and the entertainment and media industries. Alumni and students form bonds through more than 50 regional and affinity groups across the globe, supporting each other with social, philanthropic and professional development programs—and cheering for the Orange together. Celebrating Orange Impact Our 260,000+ alumni have been making their mark on the world since Syracuse University’s founding in 1870. Whether in the arts, entertainment, journalism, business, government, law, scientific research, human services or anything in between, our graduates have made significant contributions to creating a better tomorrow. Recent alumni have turned their passion for change into award-winning entrepreneurial ventures ranging from reducing waterborne illnesses in India to creating portable electric vehicle chargers. Discover Our Network Developing the Leaders of Tomorrow Discover Our Impact Providing Real-World Experience Explore Immersive Experiences Creating Opportunities for All Meet Our Community PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy