Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department Community Services Lost and Found Police Department About UHPD Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Report Lost Property Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfer Requests Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu Lost and Found If you've lost a personal item, you may report it to the University of Houston Police Department, via our online reporting system (please read the limitations below before submitting a report). You may also report lost items by telephone at 713-743-0620 during our normal business hours Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. Please be detailed in describing the item you have lost so we can tell your item from other similar items in our inventory. Details that are helpful include: brand name, color, size, shape, model number, quantity, material (leather, plastic, fabric, metal, etc.), size, special features, tags or labels, etc. Once your online report has been received by the department, you may be contacted by UHPD lost and found staff if more information is needed. If it is determined that your property has been turned in to us or is turned in to us at a later time, we will contact you to make arrangements to claim your property. For lost Cougar 1 Cards, please contact the Cougar Card Office at 713 743-CARD. For lost University of Houston issued keys, please use the Lost or Stolen Key Report Form provided by Access Control Services. Property Claim is at the UHPD station, 4051 Wheeler, Houston, Tx. 77204. A valid photo ID is required (e.g., UH ID, State ID card, Driver’s License, official passport, etc). Property will not be released to anyone without an ID, unless the lost property includes the above mentioned forms of ID. Items not accepted: Clothing, including coats and jackets Cosmetic items Pens, pencils and umbrellas Food, drinks and containers Items that present a sanitation risk (soiled) are also discarded Books with no identifiable owner information Non-prescription sunglasses and eyeglasses Items maintained in Lost and Found include: Books, notebooks, and planners with identifiable owner information Perscription sunglasses, prescription eyewear Cell phones Personal keys Jewelry Wallets and Purses Driver’s License, State Identification Cards, and Passports Backpacks Radios, Walkmans, MP3 players Computer equipment Flash drives Unclaimed items are maintained for 60 days before final disposition. Unclaimed items may be donated to charitable organizations or disposed of accordingly. Unclaimed data sensitive materials are destroyed. UH staff members who need to schedule a pickup of lost and found items should call UHPD Lost and Found Division at 713 743-0620 or Police Dispatch at 713 743-0600. Because UHPD does not take clothing items, you may wish to call the Salvation Army or similar organization for donation of those items. If you find property on campus, call 713-743-0620 to get assistance on what to do. To help prevent theft and help recover stolen property, UHPD has engravers available to mark your property. Submit a lost property report 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies