Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Registrar Registrar right arrow down arrow Academic Calendars right arrow down arrow Summer Semester 2022 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Fall Semester 2022 Calendars right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Academic Year Calendars right arrow down arrow 2020–2021 2021–2022 2022–2023 Academic Calendar Policies right arrow down arrow Religious Observances and Class Attendance Reading Days Academic Planning Calendars Past Calendars right arrow down arrow Spring Semester 2022 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Summer Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Spring Semester 2021 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Summer Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Spring Semester 2020 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Fall Semester 2019 right arrow down arrow Dates and Deadlines Calendar Registration Dates Exam Schedule Registration right arrow down arrow How to Guide right arrow down arrow Video Tutorials Class Permissions Waitlists Catalyst and Canvas Confirm Enrollment Submit My Add/Drop Form Visiting Students Cross Registration right arrow down arrow Greater Cincinnati Collegiate Connection (GC3) right arrow down arrow GC3 Procedure for Visiting Students GC3 Procedure for University of Cincinnati Students Southwestern Ohio Council for Higher Education (SOCHE) right arrow down arrow SOCHE Procedure for Visiting Students SOCHE Procedure for University of Cincinnati Students Form Completion Requests right arrow down arrow In–School Deferment Completion Requests Verify Enrollment for Unemployment Tuition Refunds Registration Policies right arrow down arrow Adding, Dropping, and Withdrawing From Classes Canceled Classes Credit Hour Definition Disenrollment of Class Registrations for Unmet Course Requisites Early Registration Appointments for Continuing Students Undergraduate Student Class Levels Tuition Overload Policy FAQs—Registration Personal Info Changes right arrow down arrow Ohio Residency & Reciprocity right arrow down arrow Ohio Residency Application Indiana Reciprocity and Metropolitan Rates for Tuition Purposes right arrow down arrow Indiana Reciprocity & Metropolitan Rate Applications Kentucky Reciprocity and Metropolitan Rates for Tuition Purposes right arrow down arrow Kentucky Reciprocity & Metropolitan Rate Applications Residency and Reciprocity Frequently Asked Questions Selective Service Registration Program Changes & Readmissions right arrow down arrow Apply for Readmission to UC Change Existing Major to a New Major Add a Major Change Major Specialization Drop an Existing Major Name Changes Sex Marker Updates Self–Service Updates UCID: Your Unique UC Identifier FERPA and Privacy right arrow down arrow Update Your FERPA Preferences FERPA and the Student's Right to Review Records Records Privacy and Release Information for Parents European Union Data Protection Regulation Grades and Transcripts right arrow down arrow Transcript Ordering right arrow down arrow Transcripts Frequently Asked Questions Transcript Explanation Key Grading Scales and Definitions Grading Scales Effective from September 1968 to December 1998 Ohio Credit When It's Due Initiative and Transcript Release Authorization Self-Service Verifications Grade Replacements right arrow down arrow Grade Replacement Application Grade Replacement Policy Academic Residency Academic Fresh Start right arrow down arrow Academic Fresh Start Application Academic Fresh Start Policy First–Year Covid Reboot right arrow down arrow 2021 First–Year Covid Reboot Application Academic Standing right arrow down arrow Academic Standing Appeals Information Grade Changes Third Party Verifications Graduation right arrow down arrow Apply to Graduate Application Deadlines After Commencement Certified Electronic Credentials right arrow down arrow CeDiploma Features Credential Validation CeCredential Frequently Asked Questions Credential Service Indicator Replacement Diplomas Notarizations & Apostilles Graduation and Degree Policies right arrow down arrow Latin Honors Posthumous Degree Policy Double Majors and Double Degrees Retroactive Certification of University of Cincinnati Degree FAQs—Graduation & Diploma Faculty & Staff Resources Contacts Home » About UC » Office of the University Registrar » Graduation » Apply to Graduate Set Navigation title in component Apply to Graduate Application Deadlines After Commencement Certified Electronic Credentials CeDiploma Features Credential Validation CeCredential Frequently Asked Questions Credential Service Indicator Replacement Diplomas Notarizations & Apostilles Graduation and Degree Policies Latin Honors Posthumous Degree Policy Double Majors and Double Degrees Retroactive Certification of University of Cincinnati Degree FAQs—Graduation & Diploma Apply to Graduate Login to Catalyst Click on the My Academics tile Open the Graduation/Commencement drop–down menu Select Apply to Graduate The Online Graduation Application All undergraduate and graduate students must submit their graduation applications through the Online Graduation Application. The colleges will not accept paper applications. Be sure to apply for degree by the deadline for the term in which you wish to graduate. Check the schedule of Important Dates and Deadlines for Graduation Applications. Important: Late applications will not be accepted. Application Instructions Login to Catalyst Click on the My Academics tile Open the Graduation/Commencement drop–down menu Select Apply to Graduate Follow the steps to submit your application and application fee. (Remember that your application is not complete until you are presented with a final “application accepted” screen.) Make sure you get to the end of the application and pay the $50.00 Online Graduation Application fee by credit card. Important: Students strongly are advised to consult with their academic advisor prior to submitting an application for graduation. Online Graduation Application Frequently Asked Questions Who will use the Online Graduation Application? right arrow down arrow Students who have met with their program advisors and who have been informed by the advisors that they are close to completing their degree requirements should apply to graduate. The Online Graduation Application accepts applications from both undergraduate and graduate students applying for graduation from associate, baccalaureate, master's and doctoral degree programs. The Online Graduation Application also accepts applications for certificate programs. If you are completing a degree in the College of Law or College of Medicine (MD program only), you must follow that college's procedures for applying for graduation. This Online Graduation Application cannot accept applications for College of Law degrees or from the College of Medicine's Doctor of Medicine degree students. How do I use the Online Graduation Application? right arrow down arrow Check the master schedule of opening dates and closing deadlines for the date that Online Graduation Application will begin accepting applications for the term in which you seek graduation. Be sure also to note the application deadline for that term. Students are responsible for knowing and complying with graduation application deadlines. Graduation applications will not be accepted after the established deadline for the term. Prior to entering the Online Graduation Application, make an appointment with your academic advisor to be certain that you are ready to apply for graduation. If you are a graduate student, review the Graduate School’s graduation process information prior to entering the Online Graduation Application. Graduate Students must first complete the Graduate School Exit Survey prior to submitting a graduation application. The Online Graduation Application will not accept a graduate student's application until they completed the survey. Log in to the Online Graduation Application. The Online Graduation Application will display your current academic program(s). If this information is incorrect or incomplete, log out of the application and immediately contact your college office. Enter the information requested on each page and click the “Next” button. You will see that some information items have been pre-populated for you. Confirm that this information is correct before clicking to the next page. You may submit only one graduation application per full term, but if you are enrolled for multiple academic programs, you may use the Online Graduation Application to apply for multiple program graduation in the same term including certificate programs. At some previous time, you may have asked UC to withhold releasing your UC Directory Information in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA). If that is the case, UC cannot print your name in the UC Commencement Program. If a directory information hold currently is being enforced, the Online Graduation Application will ask for your authorization to override the FERPA block and print your name in the program. The Online Graduation Application will notify you if currently, you have an unresolved obligation to the University of Cincinnati. You may submit your graduation application, but UC will not release either your diploma or academic transcript until this obligation has been cleared. Once you have entered all requested information, the Online Graduation Application will display a confirmation page. Print and save that confirmation for your records. How do I change my Online Graduation Application Information? right arrow down arrow After having completed an online application for graduation, you will only be able to access and update information for a limited time. Please check the Graduation Application Dates and Deadlines page to verify the various deadlines. Students are able to update their CeCredential Name (Catalyst refers to this as either the "Diploma" or "eDiploma" Name) via the Graduation Application. It is highly encouraged that all students update their CeCredential/Diploma/eDiploma Name to ensure accuracy of CeCredential creation. Make sure you check the Important Dates and Deadlines for Graduation Applications page so that you are aware of the last date to change this information. How do I reserve a seat at the All–University Commencement or Doctoral Hooding and Master's Recognition Ceremony? right arrow down arrow Review the Commencement Ceremony page for the most current information regarding upcoming Commencement Ceremony. You will RSVP for a Commencement Ceremony as part of completing and submitting your Online Graduation Application. Make sure you check the Important Dates and Deadlines for Graduation Applications page so that you are aware of the last date to change this information. Is there a fee to submit an Online Graduation Application? right arrow down arrow All graduate and undergraduate students are required to submit a non-refundable "Graduation Fee" payment by credit card to complete the degree application. The graduation application fee was established to enhance services to the University of Cincinnati graduating students. The fee underwrites various costs related to All–University Commencement, degree certification, CeCredential creation, and other graduation–related expenses. A student who applies to graduate and who pays the graduation fee but who does not graduate in the term for which they applied (for example, a student who does not satisfactorily complete final term courses or a student who has not satisfied all degree requirements) will be required to submit the fee again when applying for graduation for a future term. The graduation fee will be required for each term the student applies for graduation. The graduation fee is $50.00 Students strongly are advised to consult with their academic advisor prior to submitting an application for graduation. The Graduation Fee will not be waived, refunded or carried forward to a future term. University of Cincinnati 2220 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45221-0060 513-556-1000 reginfo@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2220 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45221-0060 513-556-1000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top