Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Faculty Teaching Information You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Temple’s faculty transitioned to fully online instruction in a short period of time in order to safeguard the health of our community. The university approaches classroom instruction with the benefit of that experience and the hindsight it brings. Tips for Online Teaching Adrienne Shaw, associate professor of media studies and production in the Klein College of Media and Communication, shares some ideas for how faculty can find innovative ways to engage with students as they teach online. Spring 2022 Semester To allow for proper physical distancing, in-person classes will continue to take place in de-densified settings that have been sanitized according to strict cleaning protocols. Students and faculty must wear facial coverings during in-person classes. FAQ Can I change my class to 100% online for the entirety of the spring semester? No, faculty may not unilaterally make the decision to change the format of the class(es) to which they are assigned. If you have specific concerns, please contact your chair or dean to discuss options. I am not sure how to best deliver my class virtually during the first weeks of the semester. Who can help with that? The Center for the Advancement of Teaching has advised many faculty on options for delivering classes virtually. Book an appointment for assistance. Class Attendance The university’s attendance policy has been standardized to accommodate students who are ill or are required to self-quarantine for a period of time due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Honesty, Flexibility and Academic Integrity To achieve course learning goals, students must participate in classes that are taught remotely, or attend essential in-person classes, to the extent that they are able. Though increased flexibility will be granted, in all cases, course assessments such as assignments, tests and exams must be completed for learning goals to be reached. Attendance and Engagement Instructors are required to ensure that attendance is recorded for each in-person and synchronous online class session using the Qwickly app, which is an online attendance system designed by the university. Qwickly is already available and integrated with Canvas. The primary reason for documentation of attendance is to facilitate contact tracing if a student or instructor tests positive for COVID-19. Recording of attendance will also provide an opportunity for outreach from student services and/or academic support units to support students should they become ill. Students who are exhibiting symptoms, have been in close contact with others who have symptoms, or who are engaging in self-quarantine at the direction of the Philadelphia Department of Public Health or another healthcare professional should not attend in-person classes and will not be penalized for absences. If students are able, they may attend remote courses but where they miss class(es) as described above, students will not be required to provide formal documentation from a healthcare provider. Inability to Attend Online Classes If students are unable to attend an online class or participate in course activities, they are expected to take the following steps. Notify instructors in advance of the inability to participate, if possible. Call Temple’s Student Health Services (215-204-7500). Proof of evaluation will be provided to the student. Keep up with coursework, as much as possible. Reach out to the instructor if illness will require late submission or other modifications to deadlines or work requirements. Work with their instructors to reschedule any synchronous exams, labs and other critical academic activities, if necessary. If it is not possible to continue active engagement in a course due to illness or other COVID-19-related circumstance, students may opt to withdraw from the course or accept an incomplete. Inability to Attend In-person Classes If students are unable to attend class or participate in course activities, they are expected to take the following steps. Notify instructors in advance of the absence, if possible. Call Temple’s Student Health Services (215-204-7500). Proof of evaluation will be provided to the student. Keep up with coursework, as much as possible. Participate in class activities and submit assignments electronically, to the extent possible and as directed by the instructor. Reach out to their instructor if illness will require late submission or other modifications to deadlines or work requirements. Work with their instructors to reschedule exams, labs and other critical academic activities, if necessary. Zoom Zones Zoom Zones are designated rooms on campus where students can attend classes and lectures virtually. They can also be used as quiet study areas. Professors should be aware that students attending classes from a Zoom Zone will use the chat feature to participate so that they do not disrupt other students who may be sharing the room but attending a different class. Enforcing Healthy Behaviors All Temple students and instructors must wear a facial covering while attending in-person classes. To reinforce adherence to Temple’s mask guidelines, faculty should refer to the “Five Rs.” Remind. If you notice that students are not wearing their facial coverings or are wearing them improperly, remind them that it should cover their nose, mouth and chin at all times. Request. All students are required to wear masks while attending in-person classes. Faculty should ask students who are not wearing a mask to put one on. Refuse. If students are noncompliant, instructors can refuse to proceed with class until everyone is practicing healthy behaviors. Noncompliant students can step out of class and return once they adhere to the safety guidelines. Reschedule. Instructors may also choose to reschedule class if they are met with noncompliant students. Refer. Faculty should report disruptive students who do not follow facial covering requirements to Student Conduct for possible disciplinary action. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.