Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics People About Research News/Events STEMFACDEV Engineering & Science Education Clemson University Engineering and Science Education Seminar Series is held weekly on Fridays. All ESED seminars occur at 11:15 AM via zoom. For information, registration, and accessibility options, please email Paige Zoltewicz or call 864-656-7148. Please view additional information on the ESED Blog. "The Engineering and Science Education Department at Clemson University provided me with the tools and resources to succeed. The faculty mentored me in ways that pushed me to think critically about my research and education but also supported my growth and development in a nurturing environment. I am truly grateful to be an alumna of such a unique and innovative program." - Allison Godwin, Ph.D. Engineering and Science Education Ph.D. Program The Clemson University ESED Ph.D. program provides a rich curriculum with a focus on STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) education. Applicants should at least have a master's degree in a STEM discipline. The deadline for applications for the Ph.D. program for full consideration for admission and funding is December 1 of each year. There will be a second round of consideration for any remaining places in the incoming fall cohort starting February 1. Apply to Ph.D. Program Discover How Engineering and Science Education Excels Innovation Leadership Research Education Teri Garrett Student Success Fund Teri Garrett retired in June 2021 after serving as the office manager of the Department of Engineering and Science Education (ESED) since 2016. We have established the Teri Garrett Student Success Fund in honor of Teri’s dedication to students and their well-being. The fund will be used as a source for a biannual award (up to $500) given to a current ESED Ph.D. student through an application process. Teri embodies the focus of the ESED community on student success and well-being. She has been a steadfast advocate for our students, a shoulder to lean on (or cry on), and an unfailing resource for anyone who needs assistance. Teri’s ability to cut through red tape and get things done on behalf of our students is remarkable. We can think of no better way to honor her than by creating an award in her name to continue the attentive care she has given to students through the years. Donate Today Top News Apr 04 April 6: ESED Certificate Informational Session : 6:00 pm ET Read More Mar 23 Spring Seminar: April 8, Selling Physics Education to Women in the Early Twentieth Century Joanna Behrman, PhD Read More Mar 08 Please join us for an online information session for Clemson University’s Certificate in Engineering and Science Education. March 30, 6:00 pm EDT Read More Mar 08 How Do Critical Pedagogies Inform What’s Needed in Equitable Mathematics Instruction? Read More Copyright © Clemson University Engineering and Science Education | 262 Sirrine Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-7148 | Email Us