African American Studies - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search African American Studies About AAS History of the Discipline Mission Statement Faculty/Staff Faculty Staff Visiting Scholars Program Undergraduate African American Studies, B.A. African American Studies, Minor Academic Advising Graduate African American Studies, Graduate Certificate Academic Advising Scholarships Learning Abroad News/Events News and Events AAS Media Mentions UJIMA Newsletter Giving Congratulations! On March 10, 2021 African American Studies marked another milestone by officially becoming a degree-granting department. News and Events Jaelynn Walls First UH Student to be Named Knight-Hennessy Scholar Jaelynn Walls, a second year graduating senior majoring in art history with a minor in African American studies at the University of Houston’s College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, has been named a 2021 Knight-Hennessy Scholar, widely regarded as one of the most prestigious fellowships in the nation. UH African American Studies Program Granted Departmental Status Two years after celebrating its 50th anniversary, the African American Studies (AAS) Program at the University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) has been formally elevated to a degree-granting department. Reed Named as Interim Director of the UH African American Studies Program The University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) is pleased to announce associate professor of history Linda Reed, Ph.D., as interim director of the African American Studies (AAS) program. Making and Teaching History Studying the Black experience and its impact on society – and society’s impact on it – may help stem the tide of racism, but its goal, through the African American Studies (AAS) program at the University of Houston, is to even the historical playing field. CLASS Mourns the Loss of One of its Own - Dr. James L. Conyers, Director of the African American Studies Program A valued member of the UH community for nearly 20 years, Professor Conyers’ legacy will live on. James Conyers passed away on Monday, January 25, 2021. New African American Studies Scholarship Honors Houston-Area Social Justice Leader The University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) is proud to announce that Director of African American Studies James L. Conyers, Jr., Ph.D., has established the William Alexander Lawson Social Justice Scholarship Endowment. This scholarship honors the remarkable legacy of civil rights advocacy and social justice activism that Rev. Lawson has built over seven decades as one of Houston’s most influential civic and religious leaders. African American Studies Program Marks 50th Anniversary with New Bachelor of Arts Degree The UH College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) is pleased to announce that undergraduate students will have the option to declare a major in African American Studies beginning in the Fall 2019 semester. The addition of a Bachelor of Arts degree in African American Studies (AAS) coincides with the 50th anniversary of the program and reflects growing interest from students and faculty in the study of black culture throughout space and time. About African American Studies The mission of the University of Houston African American studies department is reflected in the larger vision of Black, Africana and African American studies departments and programs and their commitment to the development of the knowledge of people of African descent in America throughout the greater Diaspora and on the continent. The program develops, promotes and enhances the knowledge and information of the discipline as well as the collective consciousness of African descended people, which will in turn lead to the growth and prosperity of strong communities and a powerful nation. AAS focuses on the cultural and historical heritage of Africans on the continent, in America and throughout the greater Diaspora and their contributions to the world’s history and civilizations. Read more about AAS. Connect with us Contact Us Department of African American Studies 3553 Cullen Boulevard Agnes Arnold Hall Room 629 Houston, TX 77204-3047 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies