Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center About The Gantts Harvey Gantt was the first African American student to enroll at Clemson, entering the University in January 1963. Lucinda entered in the fall semester of that same year, making her Clemson’s second African American student to enroll. Harvey is a native of Charleston, S.C. He is a partner in the architectural and city planning firm Gantt/Huberman Architects and served two terms as mayor of Charlotte, N.C. He earned a Bachelor of Architecture degree from Clemson University, with honors, in 1965, and in 1970, he received a Master of City Planning degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Throughout his career, Harvey’s ties with academia have remained strong. He has been a visiting lecturer at a number of prestigious institutions, including his alma mater, Clemson University, where he also received an honorary doctorate. Lucinda is a native of Hopkins, S.C. The Gantts were married in the fall of 1964. Upon Harvey’s graduation in 1965, he and Lucinda moved to Charlotte, N.C., where Lucinda completed her course work in applied mathematics and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from UNC-Charlotte. She later continued her education, earning a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from the same school. Lucinda was business manager of East Towne Manor, an assisted-living facility in Charlotte, until her retirement. The Gantts are the proud parents of four children. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram