Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Areas of Study Dance Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Admissions B.F.A. in Dance Performance Minor in Dance Performance One of the top universities offering both conservatory dance instruction and liberal arts education, the SMU Meadows Division of Dance develops disciplined, versatile artists through professional training in ballet, modern and jazz. Undergraduates can earn a B.F.A. in Dance Performance or a minor in Dance Performance. Coursework centers on ballet, modern and jazz, all three of which are required for all first-years and sophomores. During junior and senior years, students select the techniques they wish to concentrate on. In addition to technique training, students are immersed in theoretical studies that include dance history, kinesiology, music theory/history and choreography. Students perform masterworks of the great choreographers of the 20th century, including Balanchine, Graham, Humphrey, Limón, and Sokolow, as well as works by contemporary masters such as Taylor, Parsons, Battle, Pilobolus and more. Student choreography is a major component of the student experience, guided by expert faculty with considerable professional experience and accolades, and opportunities to learn from visiting masters such as Shen Wei, choreographer of the opening ceremonies of the Beijing Olympics; Adam Hougland, resident choreographer for the Cincinnati and Louisville ballets; and Michael Keegan-Dolan, Fabulous Beast co-founder and 2012-13 Meadows Prize winner. Alumni currently are or have been employed by the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Ballet Hispanico, Dance Theatre of Harlem, Martha Graham Company, Paul Taylor Dance Company, Complexions and many more. Interested double-majoring? SMU Meadows encourages it. Several of our Dance students enjoy double-majoring in areas such as physical therapy, engineering, journalism and more. SMU’s location is a big plus for students serious about their art. Located only five miles from the largest arts district in the United States, SMU dancers have opportunities to perform with professional companies and productions. Sample Class Schedules Haley’beth Cain – Lake Charles, Louisiana B.F.A. Dance Performance See Haley’beth’s First-Year Schedule Jalen Jones – Powder Springs, Georgia B.F.A. Dance Performance Musical Theatre minor See Jalen’s First-Year Schedule Xime Emiliani – Panama City, Panama B.F.A. Dance Performance B.B.A. General Business See Xime’s Sophomore Schedule Avery Alexander – Dallas, Texas B.F.A. Dance Performance Arts Entrepreneurship minor Arts Management minor See Avery’s Junior Schedule Sara Magalio – Lebanon, New Jersey B.F.A. Dance Performance B.A. Journalism See Sara’s Senior Schedule Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search