Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Performance Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Performance Major Apply Visit Request More Info Performance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Performance Develop the skills to perform professionally with the Bachelor of Music (BM) in Performance in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. You’ll choose from a range of concentrations. This 124-credit, full-time bachelor’s degree prepares you with intensive coaching and training by faculty from well-known institutions such as Opera Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Ballet and The Philadelphia Orchestra. The liberal arts curriculum in the Bachelor of Music in Performance program emphasizes both solo and ensemble performance through hands-on instruction, providing pathways for careers in all facets of musical performance. In addition to eight semesters of private lessons and ensemble performances, students complete coursework in aural theory, music history and theory, and other courses that vary by concentration. Courses also focus on specific business aspects of the field to prepare you for the professional world. As part of the Center for Performing and Cinematic Arts, Performance BM students have opportunities to participate in ensembles and productions at the Temple Performing Arts Center, in addition to the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia and the iconic Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City. You can also explore information about the Bachelor of Music in Jazz Studies Performance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Concentrations Choose to focus on one of the following concentrations. Strings Study will focus on masterworks of symphonic repertoire in addition to classics of today. Real world instruction arrives from student involvement in one or all of the university’s three orchestras — Opera, Sinfonia or the Symphony Orchestra. Much of the studio faculty are members of The Philadelphia Orchestra and other major metropolitan performance organizations. String concentration students are looking to gain advanced skills and expertise with the violin, viola, cello, double bass, classical guitar and harp. Woodwinds & Brass Woodwinds and brass students will have extensive performance opportunities through university orchestras, bands and chamber music ensembles. You will study with faculty who make music at the highest levels of artistry: Much of Boyer's studio faculty is drawn from the Philadelphia Orchestra and other top metropolitan performing organizations. The Woodwinds and Brass concentrations include the following instruments. Flute Clarinet Oboe Bassoon Saxophone French Horn Trumpet Trombone Euphonium Tuba Percussion Percussion students have opportunities to perform in a wide range of ensembles, including symphony orchestra, percussion ensemble, big bands, jazz combos, and Latin and Brazilian musical ensembles. A diverse musical curriculum complements private instruction and ensemble coaching by faculty members who are themselves high-caliber performers. Temple alumni holding BM, MM and DMA degrees in Percussion perform all over the world, with many others holding respected teaching positions at universities and conservatories across the country. Keyboard The Department of Keyboard Studies provides a variety of programs tailored to future keyboard solo artists, chamber musicians, accompanists and teachers. Students have weekly private instruction with Boyer faculty along with regular performance and master classes taught by both members of faculty and guest artists. Students in the Keyboard concentration may play the following instruments. Piano Harpsichord Voice Instruction will arrive by way of private lessons with Boyer faculty in addition to rehearsals, master classes and studio classes. Students seeking a career in opera will perform a pair of fully staged operas in addition to opera scenes, concerts and recitals. Students seeking to study Choral Activities routinely perform in one of Temple’s seven choirs and receive opportunities to perform at professional conferences in addition to an annual concert alongside Temple’s Symphony Orchestra at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts. Classes & Curriculum In addition to requisite general education courses, all students in the Performance BM are required to take a minimum of two writing-intensive courses in music history. Additionally, some of the core coursework varies depending on your chosen concentration. Learn more about course requirements for each concentration in the Bachelor of Music (BM) in Performance. Related Graduate Degrees Choral Conducting MM Jazz Studies MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Education MM Music History MM Music Technology MS Performance DMA Performance MM Vocal Arts MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Charles Abramovic is the chair of Keyboard Studies. Phone: 215-204-7388 Email: charles.abramovic@temple.edu Paul Rardin is the chair of Vocal Arts. Phone: 215-204-4742 Email: rardin@temple.edu Terell Stafford is the director of the Jazz Studies Department and chair of the Instrumental Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Conservatorium van Amsterdam Jazz students can exchange places with a student from the Netherlands and study at the Conservatorium van Amsterdam. While conservatory students study at Temple, you can immerse yourself for a semester or academic year in a historical city and at an institution that is more than 130 years old. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PERF-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Performance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info