Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Research Facilities Research Facilities Boston College supports a wide array of cutting edge shared research resources including seven core facilities and three recharge centers. Oversight for these facilities is placed under the Office of the Vice Provost for Research (VPR) and is the primary responsibility of the Executive Director, Research Infrastructure. Core Facility News New Paper in Polymer Science by the Niu group highlighting EPR Support Article showcasing work from the Imaging Core from the Folker lab Magnetic Resonance Center Receives NIH & NSF Grants The Story of Characterization Journal Facilities Use Agreement for External Users COVID-19 Requirements for Vendors, Contractors and Suppliers Lunch and Learn Series Laboratory Safety Information What is a Core Facility/Recharge Center? Animal Care Facility Learn more A facility committed to providing humane care for animals while assisting researchers. Services include procuring animals, animal husbandry, daily health surveillance, equipment provision and maintenance training. Electron Microscopy Learn more A ultra-high-resolution scanning electron microscope capable of secondary-electron image resolution of 1.2 nm and a transmission electron microscope operating at 200kV with a field-emission gun. Magnetic Resonance Center Learn more A high-field nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer facility featuring two 400 MHz NMR spectrometers, two 500 MHz NMR spectrometers, one 600 MHz NMR spectrometer, and computer facilities. Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Learn more SIMS is a service department in the College of Arts and Sciences, set up to assist science department researchers and academic laboratories in solving scientific equipment problems. Center for Isotope Geochemistry Learn more A specialized facility dedicated to high precision analysis of isotopic ratios in geological, marine, environmental, and archaeological materials. Includes a TIMS instrument, an IRMS instrument, and a metal-free clean lab. Flow Cytometry Learn more Flow cytometry uses fluorescent probes to identify and characterize cells or particles in suspension by virtue of size, granularity and fluorescence. The Mass Spectrometry Center Learn more A full service facility providing high resolution mass spectral data from electrospray, APCI, APPI, MALDI-TOF, and DART. X-ray Crystallography Center Learn more Fully equipped with several diffractometers, constant temperature rooms for crystal growth, and several VAX and Silicon Graphics computers for investigation of protein and small molecule structure. Clean Room & Nanofabrication Facility Learn more Comprised of 1,500 square feet of Class 1,000 and Class 10,000 cleanroom spaces, this lab enables highly sensitive materials and devices to be fabricated free from contaminants. Imaging Facility Learn more The Imaging Facility has five separate spaces for microscopes and houses several workstations for image analysis by facility users. Bench space is available for set up of experiments and a fume hood is present within the facility. Materials Characterization Learn More The Materials Characterization Center will open in 2022. The facility will include: X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Powder X-Ray Diffraction (PXRD), and Atomic Force Microscope (AFM). Joshua Rappoport, Ph.D. Executive Director, Research Infrastructure & Operations Dr. Joshua Z. Rappoport received a bachelor’s degree in Biology from Brown University and then went on to earn a Ph.D. from the Program in Mechanisms of Disease and Therapeutics at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine Graduate School of Biological Sciences of New York University. Dr. Rappoport then went on to perform postdoctoral work at The Rockefeller University in New York City in the Laboratory of Cellular Biophysics. Subsequently he was recruited as a faculty member in the School of Biosciences at the University of Birmingham in England. In 2014 Dr. Rappoport returned to the United States to serve as the Director of the Center for Advanced Microscopy and Nikon Imaging Center at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, and as a faculty member in the Department of Molecular and Cell Biology. As of March 1st, 2019, Dr. Rappoport is the Executive Director, Research Infrastructure & Operations. This position in the office of the Vice-Provost for Research focuses upon expanding and improving the shared research resources available to BC faculty, such as core facilities and recharge centers. Research Infrastructure Joshua Rappoport, Ph.D. Executive Director, Research Infrastructure & Operations Part-Time Faculty, Biology Dept. rappopoj@bc.edu 617.552.0953 Higgins 644A Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College