Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Fairfield Home Connect Chapters Connecticut Fairfield Connecticut Fairfield Hartford The Fairfield Chapter consists of over 6,000 alumni, parents, and friends. The chapter gathers around Global Days of Service events, networking, and game watches. 6,056 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Fairfield Chapter Facebook Page Fairfield Chapter Instagram Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Martin Maffei '08 Lives in: Stamford, Connecticut Major: Finance Occupation: Financial Advisor - Wealth Management Favorite BC Memory: RV road trip to Notre Dame for BC/ND Football game senior year. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I have so many fond memories of my time at BC and this is a great way to continue that. It allows us to stay in contact and meet fellow alumni in the same area through various service, sports and networking events. BC alumni are known for the pride they have in their alma mater and being around the local alumni is a nice reminder of how that can continue long after we have left the Heights. Fun Fact: My first language is Spanish. Lisa Bridgman '13 Lives in: New Canaan, Connecticut Major: Economics with Accounting Concentration Occupation: Senior Technical Controllership Manager for GE Favorite BC Memory: Apart from football and hockey games, my favorite memories at BC are singing in the BC University Chorale at the annual Christmas concerts and Pops on the Heights concerts (especially the year Harry Connick Jr. was the guest artist). I still love going back up to campus for these performances and am so glad I had the opportunity to be a part of this group. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: I was a Tour Guide at BC and loved being able to share my school spirit and experiences with prospective students and their families each week. After graduation, it was important for me to stay connected and continue to be a part of the BC community in my area. What are your local favorites in your city?: Zumbach’s Coffee in New Canaan is a ‘must have’ to start the day. The annual Wine + Food Festival in Greenwich is one of my favorite local events in the fall, featuring food tastings and demonstrations from celebrity chefs and local restaurateurs and live musical performances. I highly recommend! Fun Fact: I've sailed across the Atlantic on the Queen Mary 2 to visit my extended family in England over 10 times! Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Ana Mirovic Contact: ana.mirovic@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok