Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Contact Us Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Web Cams Apply Now Make a Gift Explore Admissions Academics Students Financial/Tuition Bachelor-to-Graduate Programs Current seniors at Clemson University may be eligible for a Combined Bachelor-to-Graduate Plan. Depending upon individual program offerings, a combined plan may be either a bachelor’s-to-master’s track or a bachelor’s-to-doctoral track, reducing the time required to complete both degrees. You may download a PDF flyer that contains the information below about these programs. Students use Form GS6-Bachelor-to-Graduate (the form previously called GS6BS/MS) to request participation in either type of plan. Under this plan, students may reduce the time necessary to earn both their bachelor’s and their master’s/doctoral degree by applying graduate credits to both undergraduate and graduate program requirements. You can find answers to the most frequently asked questions about the Bachelor-to-Graduate plan in the GS Bachelor-to-Graduate FAQ information PDF. Please note that Clemson University hosts a number of Ph.D. programs that qualify as “direct entry”; that is, students who already hold a bachelor’s degree (from any institution) may apply directly to select doctoral programs with no master’s degree prerequisite. Ph.D. programs which have no undergrad/graduate coursework overlap are not considered Bachelor-to-Graduate, and the GS6-Bachelor-to-Graduate form should not be used for them. To pursue a no-master’s-required Ph.D., applicants who have completed a bachelor’s degree should follow the normal Graduate School application procedure. Participating Bachelor-to-Graduate Programs Accounting Applied Economics & Statistics Applied Health Research and Evaluation (MS) Architecture (MArch) Architecture (MS) Automotive Engineering Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Bioengineering Biological Sciences Biomedical Data Science and Informatics Biomedical Engineering Biosystems Engineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry City and Regional Planning Civil Engineering Communication Computer Engineering Computer Science Economics Electrical Engineering Engineering and Science Education Entomology Environmental Engineering and Environmental Health Physics Environmental Engineering and Science Food, Nutrition, and Culinary Sciences Genetics Human Resource Development Hydrogeology Industrial Engineering Marketing Materials Science and Engineering Mathematical Sciences Mechanical Engineering Packaging Science Parks, Recreation & Tourism Mgt - MS (nonthesis-online) Parks, Recreation & Tourism Mgt-MS (thesis) Plant and Environmental Sciences Public Administration | Online Social Science Teacher Residency Wildlife and Fisheries Biology To be eligible for this plan, students must have completed their bachelor’s curriculum through their junior year (minimum 90 credits) and have a minimum overall grade point ratio of 3.4. All of the following conditions apply: 1 A maximum of 12 credit hours of graduate courses may be applied to the bachelor’s program. 2 The total credit hours taken for the bachelor’s and master’s must be at least 150 credit hours; that is, the credit hours counted towards the bachelor’s degree plus the credit hours taken after the bachelor’s is awarded must total at least 150. For the bachelor’s and Ph.D., the total must be 180 credit hours. 3 This total may contain a maximum of 6 credit hours of thesis/dissertation research, and all credit hours to be included in the total that are completed after receiving the bachelor’s degree must be in 6000-level or higher courses. 4 The total course workload for an undergraduate student in any semester that includes a graduate-level course must not exceed 18 hours. 5 As determined by the participating bachelor’s program, 7000 or 8000-level courses may be substituted for required undergraduate courses and 6000, 7000 or 8000-level courses may be applied to the bachelor’s degree as electives or technical electives. 6 Under no circumstances may 6000-level counterparts of 4000-level courses required for the bachelor’s degree be counted toward graduate degree requirements. Combined Bachelor’s-to-Graduate Plan students are not eligible for graduate appointments for financial aid until their bachelor’s degrees have been awarded. Seniors should consult both their undergraduate academic advisor and the graduate program coordinator of the program they wish to pursue. Students who receive financial aid should check with the Office of Student Financial Aid (finaid@clemson.edu) regarding their eligibility for continued assistance while pursuing Combined Bachelor’s-to-Graduate Plan credit hours. Approval is required by: the student’s advisor the department chair the coordinator of the graduate program, and the Graduate School. Students should consult their individual academic units for specific requirements. Fill out the application form to request for combined bachelor’s/master’s education plan. Note: As the GRE exam is a tool used to facilitate admission decisions, the GRE requirement for admissions is eliminated for all students who are approved via Form GS6-Bachelor-to-Graduate to pursue graduate degree programs. Full admittance to the graduate program will occur the academic term following receipt of the bachelor’s degree. Graduate Programs Off-Campus Programs Bachelor's to Graduate Program Contacts Policies and Procedures Course Offerings Forms Graduate Catalog Post-Doc Association Back to Top Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Graduate School | E-106 Martin Hall, Clemson University, Clemson SC 29634 Contact Us | Web Accessibility