Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close July 1: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. July 1, 2021 Dear Undergraduate and Graduate/Professional Students: Summer is well begun, and I write to summarize current COVID-19 vaccination guidelines and requirements for the coming year: To promote the health and safety of the BC community, all students, faculty, and staff who are U.S. citizens must be fully vaccinated by an FDA-authorized vaccine against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021-2022 academic year. Those from international locations may obtain a vaccine approved by the World Health Organization. Students are asked to upload their COVID-19 vaccination card and information to University Health Services via the Agora Health portal by August 1, 2021. All students must be fully vaccinated by August 23, 2021, or prior to moving into to campus residence halls. To be considered fully vaccinated, students must receive the second Pfizer or Moderna or single J&J vaccination no later than August 9, 2021. The same date applies to international students receiving a WHO-EUL approved vaccination or arriving early to obtain an FDA-authorized vaccination. As previously communicated, COVID-19 vaccination exemptions will be granted for legitimate religious and medical reasons–as determined by University Health Services and Campus Ministry–on a case-by-case basis. To request an exemption, please fill out the COVID-19 Vaccination Exemption Request Form, which can be found here. The deadline for submission is August 1, 2021. For directions on uploading vaccination cards, see the information below: Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Agora Health Services Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES. Choose via the “required” drop down the vaccination name (Janssen, Moderna, Pfizer, International), and record the vaccination dates. Click SUBMIT to save. Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload on the Health Services portal. Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the appropriate vaccine name (Janssen, Moderna, Pfizer, International) in the drop-down menu. (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading and hit the UPLOAD button. For any questions regarding the vaccination upload process, please reach out to covidvaccination@bc.edu. Thank you again to those who have already uploaded. The University regularly monitors COVID-19 updates and vaccination safety recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, World Health Organization, and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Thank you for helping protect the Boston College community from the coronavirus. Sincerely, Dr. Douglas Comeau Director of University Health Services Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College