Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES CENTER FOR THE HUMANITIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HUM 101 Humanities First: Foundations (3) VLPA Topics change yearly, but course is anchored in four themes at the foundation of the humanistic endeavor: language, objects, space, and time. Focuses on what Humanists do, how they do it, various techniques and use of evidence, primary goals, and public-facing results. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 101 HUM 102 Humanities First: Campus Connections (2) I&S A "laboratory seminar" that combines a core text with visits to campus partners to explore the work of humanists in the world. Students work on e-portfolio and the practice of public humanities communications. Recommended: HUM 101. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 102 HUM 103 Humanities First: Community Connections (2) I&S A "laboratory seminar" that combines a core text with visits to community partners in Seattle and beyond to explore the work of humanists in the world. Students work on e-portfolio and the practice of public humanities communications. Recommended: HUM 101 and HUM 102. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 103 HUM 201 Introduction to Studies in the Humanities (5) VLPA Introduction to fundamental concepts and approaches to the study of the humanities. Topics covered drawn from literature, language, history, culture, civilization, and other central areas of the humanities. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 201 HUM 205 Religion, Violence, and Peace: Patterns Across Time and Tradition (5) I&S Investigates the complex relationship between violence and peace in a variety of religious traditions. Examines case studies from the ancient Near East, medieval East Asia, and the contemporary West from the standpoint of lived experiences and contemporary theories derived from several academic disciplines. Offered: jointly with NEAR E 285/RELIG 205; W. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 205 HUM 208 Humanities Next: Outreach, Communication, and Mentorship (1, max. 6) Sarah Stroup Introduces students to the basic techniques of public humanities outreach and communication, as well as to the leadership skills and strategies involved in on-campus peer mentorship with incoming first-year students enrolled in Humanities First. Prerequisite: HUM 101; HUM 102; and HUM 103. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 208 HUM 498 Special Topics in the Humanities (1-6, max. 15) VLPA/I&S Intensive research opportunity, for work on project of independent and/or original design in the cultural disciplines. Mentored by UW and visiting faculty in the arts, humanities, and qualitative social sciences, by arrangement only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 498 HUM 523 Seminar in Hypertext and Textual Studies (5) Several views of hypertext conceptually explored as a basis for research and evaluation of selected hypertext works. Includes initiating the construction of a World Wide Web hypertext of resources for the study of oral, graphical, hand-written, and printed texts. Included in curriculum of Textual Studies program. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 523 HUM 596 Humanities Research Seminar (1-5, max. 15) Explorations of current research in the humanities, most frequently with interdisciplinary emphasis. Offered by selected UW faculty and scholars-in-residence. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 596 HUM 597 Special Topics in the Humanities (1-2, max. 10) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 597 HUM 600 Independent Study or Research (1-5, max. 10) Develops research ideas, practices, and their implication for applications in particular contexts not covered in standard course offerings. Supports students' specific educational goals. May be undertaken individually or in small investigative teams. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 600 HUM 601 Internship (2-6, max. 12) Internship with a local organization, agency, or company that provides a field-based, applied learning opportunity; aligns with student's professional and scholarly development goals; benefits the organizations; and has academic merit. Engages with and reflects on cultural dimensions of work experience. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: HUM 601 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022