Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Equity & Inclusion » Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Set Navigation title in component Community Education & Workshops Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services Services Request Form Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants 2022 Request for Proposals Deadline February 21, 2022 The University of Cincinnati is on a journey toward Inclusive Excellence - embracing the spectrum of diversity and infusing inclusion into every aspect of campus life. The Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grant program seeks to support collaborative efforts between colleges and units that align with the Inclusive Excellence pathway in our University’s Strategic Direction. We seek to enhance belonging, agency, cultural competence, and accountability within and across the campus community to advance those ideals. We define those constructs in the following ways: Belonging: The degree to which one feels supported, connected, valued and respected. Agency: The ability to use one’s personal power to impact positive change. Cultural Competence: The awareness, knowledge and skills to interact comfortably across difference. Accountability: The obligation of individuals to acknowledge their behaviors and decisions, accept responsibility for them and correct them, if necessary. The expectation for managers and leaders to ensure those in their charge comport themselves accordingly. Eligibility Students, faculty, and staff in all colleges and units within the university are eligible to apply. Proposals must be collaborative in nature (college/college, college/unit, unit/unit). Proposals involving multiple partners must identify a lead college or unit. A college/unit can only submit one proposal as a lead but is not limited in the number of proposals it can participate in otherwise. The proposal must have approval from the head of the lead college/unit. A 1:1 cash match is required. Matching funds will signal a strong commitment to the proposed program by the submitting college/unit. A clear letter of support and intent to fund the project from the Dean of the College or head of the unit must accompany the proposal at time of submission. The Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grant program was designed to support new and innovative research and activities that support diversity, equity, and inclusion. Therefore, projects that have not received funding through this program will be given priority. Grant administrators strongly encourage individuals, colleges, and units that have not received an E&I Incentive Grant to apply Proposal Format For full consideration, the proposal should include a title and description addressing: The purpose of the project How does the project enhance belonging, agency, cultural competence, and/or accountability? The intended audience Who will participate in and benefit from this project? Proposed activities In what research or activity will you engage participants? A clearly defined timeline What is the anticipated date of each activity? Desired outcomes and methods for assessment What is your anticipated outcome, and how will you determine success of the project? A viable plan for sustainability How will you continue the work beyond the Incentive Grant-funded year? Project Budget Grants may range from $1,000 to $5,000, depending on the project. Provide an expense description, requested amount, and cost share cost-share. If applicable, indicate other sources of financial support. This award will not cover salaries for UC employees, stipends for student assistants, conference travel, and other indirect expenses Salaries for UC employees, stipends for student assistants, conference travel, and other indirect expenses will not be covered by this award. No more than 25% of the award may be used to cover catering expenses. Report Requirements and Proposal Deadline Grantees funded under this RFP will be required to report in two formats: 1) a final written report due at the end for of the 2022 – 2023 academic year to the Vice President for Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact and 2) a presentation to the President’s Diversity Council or to the campus community through a university-wide forum. To submit a proposal, please fill out the form below: Proposals must be submitted no later than Monday, February 21, 2022. Award notification will be sent by March 4, February 2022. For additional Information information or to ask questions, please contact: Joya Dillard Email: dillarjy@ucmail.uc.edu Submissions have closed Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Past Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grant Recipients University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top