Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Outreach and Recruitment Main Navigation Prospective Students Campus Tours Show Extended Campus Tours Launch our Virtual Tour Schedule a Guided Virtual Tour Transfer Services Outreach Show Extended Freshmen Outreach Freshmen Services Transfer Outreach Transfer Services Services Special Events Request Form Welcome to Cal State Fullerton Day CSUF Webinar Series Fall in Love Campus Tours Daily Tours Group Tours VIP Tours Self Guided Tours Virtual Tours Housing Tours Other Resources While on campus Parking & Directions Hotel Information FAQ's Contact Us Cal State Fullerton Tour Central Due to the current pandemic, in-person CSUF Tours are offered with limited availability. We continue to serve prospective students in a virtual capacity that includes guided virtual tours. We're Back! In person campus tours are available! Click here to register! Virtual Guided Tours and Services! CSUF’s Campus Tours Department is excited to offer a virtual experience. The services we offer prospective students and guests includeds the opportunity to see the beauty of CSUF’s campus through a guided virtual tour and a CSUF admissions presentation. Our tours are conducted by Titan Ambassadors, who are specially trained current Cal State Fullerton students. During a virtual guided tour you will explore the central campus and key areas of the university and learn about our eight academic colleges, student services and resources, active student life and the unique history of the university. Check out a brief description of our services below! Virtual Daily Tours: 1 hour presentation and virtually guided tour with Titan Ambassadors via Zoom webinar. Group Tours: 1 hour presentation and virtually guided tour with Titan Ambassadors via Zoom webinar. Following the completion of your selected tour, we encourage you to fill out both an interest card to receive updates from the department and complete our Campus Tours Virtual Survey. CSUF Interest Card Campus Tours Virtual Services Survey Guided Virtual Daily Tour Guided Virtual Daily Tour offered on Tuesdays at 10:00am Guided Virtual Daily Tour Guided Virtual Daily Tour offered on Tuesday at 1:00pm Guided Virtual Daily Tour Guided Virtual Daily Tour offered on Thursday at 1:00pm This site is maintained by Outreach and Recruitment. Last Published 4/15/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact csufor@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.