Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Home About Us Current Students Alumni Health Professions Advising Welcome to Health Professions Advising at Clemson! Health Professions Advising at Clemson aims to: Introduce students to holistic development and guide them to grow into well-rounded candidates for the health professions. Encourage students to self-assess: to reflect on their experiences, and their interest and readiness to pursue a career in the health professions. Connect students to resources and opportunities on campus and in the community. Introduce students to the skills and competencies they will need to become successful healthcare professionals. We advise all Clemson students (and alumni) who are interested in pursuing careers in chiropractic medicine, dentistry, medicine, optometry, pharmacy, physician assistant, physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech language pathology fields. Students are encouraged to be proactive in scheduling meetings with both their academic and health professions advisers to ensure program prerequisites and major curriculum requirements are completed in a timely manner. Please consult the Adviser Directory to determine the best person for you to connect with regarding your unique path. Schedule an appointment with a Health Professions adviser: Current Clemson students Prospective students Bridge students Post-bac students Prospective Student Open House Opportunities are available for prospective Clemson students to meet with Health Professions Advising. The adviser will discuss the structure of the office and resources available to Clemson students who are interested in pursuing a health profession. Spring Prospective Student Dates Include: Friday, Aug. 5: 11 a.m. Our presentation will begin promptly on time, and allow 15 minutes at the end for any questions. Email cuhpa@clemson.edu with any questions or concerns. We look forward to meeting you! SIGNUP – VIRTUAL OPEN HOUSE Meeting Your Needs Health Professions Advising at Clemson can begin as early as orientation and continue well past graduation depending on the needs of the student: Exploration. The pre-professional pathway is a mindset, not a major. Therefore, pre-professional students must select a major and minor (if applicable). The pre-professional student may choose from over eighty undergraduate majors at Clemson. Although many students pursue a math or science degree, it is not required. Healthcare professional schools look for students that are well-rounded academically, socially and portray professional competence. Our professional advisors assist students in considering the various degree programs through which they can pursue the road to healthcare professional schools. Prerequisite Tracking. Because there is no pre-professional degree, health professional schools designate prerequisite courses as indicators of success, which they would like to see on each applicant's transcript. These prerequisite courses vary by discipline and institution. Our professional advisors can assist you with identifying and interpreting prerequisite courses at your schools of interest. Professional School Research. Our professional advisors assist students in considering the various health professional schools to which they might apply through researching admissions requirements, institutional mission, and curricula. Application and Interview Preparation. During the application process, our professional advisors can assist you with developing your personal statement, as well as how to translate your experiences confidently in an interview setting. Workshops, as well as one on one advising appointments, are offered throughout each semester to help students prepare best for admissions process. Professional Schools Dental School Medical School Occupational Therapy Pharmacy School Physical Therapy Physician Assistant Speech, Language, Pathology School Veterinary School Upcoming Events Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Health Professions Advising | 102 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-4154 | Email Us