Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Chemistry Home About Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Awards Chemistry Department Prizes & Awards The Department recognizes outstanding achievements of graduate students by awarding several prizes and awards. Most awards are presented at the annual Awards Ceremony in May. The William R. Potter Prize for Doctoral Thesis of Outstanding Merit All graduate students completing Ph.D. theses judged to be of outstanding merit are eligible for the Potter Prize. This prize is awarded annually to the most exceptional chemistry Ph.D. dissertation as judged by a faculty committee. In addition to a monetary award of $2,500, this distinguished award is announced at the Chemistry Department Diploma Ceremony during Commencement. 2022 Potter Prize Recipient: To be announced The William T. King Prize The King Prize recognizes superior performance as a teaching assistant during the academic year. The prize is awarded annually to graduate students whose efforts as a teacher and facilitator of chemical learning go beyond normal expectations. 2022 Recipients: Peter Saghy and Jake Villanova Sigma Xi Award The Sigma Xi Award for Excellence in Graduate Research recognizes outstanding research accomplishments during a graduate student's career. Students in their last year of graduate study are eligible. 2022 Recipients: TBA The Vince Wernig Fellowship Award Jia Dong (Wang Group) The Elaine Chase Award for Leadership and Service The Chase Award recognizes the students whose extraordinary leadership and service contributions during their years at Brown improved the department or the academic and educational experiences of all graduate students. 2022 Recipients: Asami Odate Research Travel & Conference Funding Graduate School Research Travel & Conference Funding Graduate students are encouraged to attend national and international conferences. In most cases, student travel is supported by a combination of funds from the Graduate School and the research group. Please see the Graduate School website for detailed information on research travel and conference travel funding. William R. Potter Chemistry Graduate Student Conference Travel Grants The William R. Potter Fund provides grants to graduate students specializing in chemistry to support their travel to and participation in national chemistry conferences at which they present thesis research. All Chemistry graduate students and graduate students whose doctoral studies are directed by a Chemistry faculty member are eligible to apply. Download the application and submit to Rose Barreira, Graduate Program Coordinator. Deadlines: May 1 for conferences in the months of July - December, and November 1 for conferences in the months of January - June. The Dwight A. Sweigart Graduate Student Travel Award The Dwight A. Sweigart Travel Award was established to honor Professor Dwight Sweigart, a dedicated scientist, teacher, and mentor. Each year, the presenter of the best inorganic chemistry / materials poster at the Chemistry Department's Annual Poster Session will receive the Sweigart Travel Award to support travel to a national conference. The Cane-Nambiar Graduate Student Travel Award Dr. Prabu Nambiar, a former post-doc in the research group of David E. Cane, Vernon K. Krieble Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, established the Cane-Nambiar Graduate Student Travelship in Professor Cane's honor. Each year, the presenter of the best organic / biological chemistry poster at the Chemistry Department's Annual Poster Session will receive the Cane-Nambiar Award to support travel to a national conference. Physical / Theoretical Graduate Student Travel Award Each year, the presenter of the best physical / theoretical chemistry poster at the Chemistry Department's Annual Poster Session will receive the Physical / Theoretical Graduate Student Travel Award to support travel to a national conference. The Phyllis R. Strauss Travel Award The Phyllis R. Strauss Fund supports travel and registration costs for women in Brown's Chemistry Graduate Program to participate in scientific development activities including, but not limited to, scientific workshops or professional conferences to present a poster or a talk. Recipients will write a follow-up message to Dr. Strauss to describe the experience. Updated May 20, 2022 Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top