Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Student Employment Finding a Job On Campus Student Employment Job Listings Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Finding a Job On Campus Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Academic Year Summer Print Open All Close All Finding a Job Job listings are posted for viewing on our website. Individual listings are maintained by employing departments. Review the different job listings, and contact employers directly. Employment Period The academic year employment period begins Sunday, August 29, 2021 and ends Saturday, May 21, 2022. Hours and Job Limits Students may work no more than a total of 20 hours per week for Boston College during the academic year, even if working more than one job for BC during the academic year. This aggregate limit applies to all assistantships, stipends in compensation for services, and hourly positions. Students may work more than 20 hours per week (but less than 30 hours) between semesters and during school breaks. Human Resources will be monitoring hours being worked for compliance with this University policy. Students may work a maximum of two jobs for Boston College during this employment period, and may work no more than a total of 20 hours per week between both jobs. Payment You will be paid for hours worked. You will not be paid for lunch breaks, sick days, holidays, or as a result of any emergency closing. Direct Deposit is the preferred method of payment at Boston College for student employees, and is the safest and quickest method to receive payment. Please refer to our Direct Deposit Enrollment Instructions to set up direct deposit for payroll. Direct Deposit enrollment will be available at www.bc.edu/myservices after you have been hired by your employing department and your hire has been processed by the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). Note that Direct Deposit for Payroll is not the same as direct deposit for student account refund. If not paid by direct deposit is chosen, then a paper check is issued and you (the student employee) need to pick it up at the HRSC during regular business hours. Please view our New Hires page for more information regarding the onboarding process. Federal Work Study Program Federal Work-Study (FWS) is a federally-subsidized employment program awarded to domestic students with demonstrated financial need. Note that preference for available jobs are given to FWS-awarded students since they have demonstrated financial need. For more information regarding the Federal Work Study program, view the Work Opportunities section of Financial Aid. Commitment to Your Employer Accepting a position involves a commitment, and you have definite responsibilities to your employer. Besides performing your duties to the best of your ability, you are expected to be dependable and considerate, and you must notify your employer as early as possible if you are going to be absent, arrive late, or need to leave early, since it may be necessary to assign your duties to another employee. Also, you must act in a professional manner concerning confidentiality of University, employer, or student records. A breach of confidentiality is cause for dismissal from any employment program. A student's employment may be terminated by his or her employer if that student's work is unsatisfactory or if the student fails to comply with required policies and procedures. Furthermore, students with poor work records or fail to comply with the University’s student hours policy may forfeit their eligibility to participate in any current and future student employment programs with Boston College. Keep in mind that future employers may want to contact the University for employment-related references after you graduate. You are expected to work for the same employer throughout the academic year until your agreed-upon end date, unless informed otherwise. If you decide to voluntarily terminate your job earlier than the date agreed upon when hired, you must offer your employer two weeks' notice in order to allow that employer the opportunity to find another student employee. Print Open All Close All Finding a Job Job listings are posted for viewing on our website. Individual listings are maintained by employing departments. Review the different job listings, and contact employers directly. Employment Period The summer employment period begins Sunday, May 22, 2022 and ends Saturday, August 27, 2022. Hours and Job Limits Students may work 30 or more hours per week (to a maximum of 40 hours per week), but may not work more than 12 weeks of the summer employment period working these hours as a student employee of Boston College, even if working more than one job for Boston College. Students may only work more than 12 weeks of the summer employment period if they average no more than 29 hours per week throughout the summer, even if working more than one job for Boston College. Human Resources will be monitoring hours being worked, and it is expected that employers as well as their student employees will do the same to ensure compliance with this University policy. Payment You will be paid for hours worked. You will not be paid for lunch breaks, holidays, or as a result of any emergency closing. Direct Deposit is the preferred method of payment at Boston College for student employees, and is the safest and quickest method to receive payment. Please refer to our Direct Deposit Enrollment Instructions to set up direct deposit for payroll. Direct Deposit enrollment will be available at www.bc.edu/myservices after you have been hired by your employing department and your hire has been processed by the Human Resources Service Center (HRSC). Note that Direct Deposit for Payroll is not the same as direct deposit for student account refund. If not paid by direct deposit is chosen, then a paper check is issued and you (the student employee) need to pick it up at the HRSC during regular business hours. Please view our New Hires page for more information regarding the onboarding process. Federal Work Study Program Federal Work-Study (FWS) is a federally-subsidized employment program awarded to domestic students with demonstrated financial need. Note that preference for available jobs are given to FWS-awarded students since they have demonstrated financial need. For more information regarding the Federal Work Study program, view the Work Opportunities section of Financial Aid. Commitment to Your Employer Accepting a position involves a commitment, and you have definite responsibilities to your employer. Besides performing your duties to the best of your ability, you are expected to be dependable and considerate, and you must notify your employer as early as possible if you are going to be absent, arrive late, or need to leave early, since it may be necessary to assign your duties to another employee. Also, you must act in a professional manner concerning confidentiality of University, employer, or student records. A breach of confidentiality is cause for dismissal from any employment program. A student's employment may be terminated by his or her employer if that student's work is unsatisfactory or if the student fails to comply with required policies and procedures. Furthermore, students with poor work records or fail to comply with the University’s student hours policy may forfeit their eligibility to participate in any current and future student employment programs with Boston College. Keep in mind that future employers may want to contact the University for employment-related references after you graduate. You are expected to work for the same employer throughout the summer employment period until your agreed-upon end date, unless informed otherwise. If you decide to voluntarily terminate your job earlier than the date agreed upon when hired, you must offer your employer two weeks' notice in order to allow that employer the opportunity to find another student employee. Employment of Recently-Graduated BC Students Students who graduate in May from Boston College may be employed in a student hourly-paid/weekly payroll job for the summer only. Wages and hours are governed by the same guidelines and policies applicable to BC students working during the summer. The Hire Form used to hire these students can be found on the Human Resources Forms page. If the former student a first-time University employee, that individual will need to complete a Form I-9, along with original documentation, at the HRSC (129 Lake Street, Brighton campus). The student will also need to read, complete, and sign the Payroll Form Statement (Student Hours at Boston College). Non-BC Students Area high school students, as well as other college and university students, may be employed by Boston College during the summer if there is a student job available. The Hire Form used to hire these students can be found on the Human Resources Forms page. If hired for the first time, they will also need to complete their Form I-9 and Payroll Form Statement at the HRSC. High School age students must be at least 16 years of age to work for the University. Hours of employment and pay rate are the same as for Boston College student employees. If the student is under 18 years of age, note that there are restrictions as to which jobs can be performed and number of hours worked, per Massachusetts employment laws. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College