Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Outreach Prospective Students Current Students Outreach Programs STEM Connections STEM CONNECTIONS represents an excellent opportunity for elementary, middle, and high school students to recognize the connection between engineering and science and their lives. Meetings and tours can be established to help individuals explore the importance and relevance of engineers and scientists in the modern world. Through the combined experience of the director, Serita Acker, and the students of PEER & WISE, we develop an experience that assists children in exploring this connection. Interested in exploring a specific science or engineering department or speaking with a member of our staff? Please fill out the event interest form. Middle School STEM DAY is a program partnering with schools and organizations in the Upstate of South Carolina to bring middle school students to campus. Participants engage in hands-on STEM activities with Clemson faculty and students. The goal of the day is to introduce the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), to underrepresented students in the area. Activities include hands-on engineering and science demonstrations, lunch with college mentors, and a presentation on the STEM industry. Our next STEM Day event is scheduled for February 26, 2022. GIRL SCOUTS & FRIENDS program is an outreach day that Girl Scout troops from the South Carolina Mountains to Midlands attend. This event allows attendees to engage in hands-on STEM activities with Clemson faculty and students. Program and event details can be viewed on the Girl Scouts & Friends page. PROJECT WISE is a one-week residential camp held in June for rising 7th and 8th-grade students to introduce them to careers in STEM. This engineering-focused event allows students to see how technology, science, and engineering affect their lives in interesting ways. This camp also includes movie nights, arts and crafts, and outdoor activities. To view a video and FAQs, please visit the Project WISE page. High School SNEAK PREVIEW brings top-performing students from around the state together to explore majors in engineering and computer science at Clemson University. Participants hear from campus representatives and attend informational sessions regarding their major of interest. Students also have a chance to meet current PEER & WISE mentors to hear their Clemson story. Explore more details on our Sneak Preview site. ABOUT US Our Impact Ways to Give Volunteer Opportunities Maegan Hinson Outreach Coordinator ✉ adamsh@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-9930 As the outreach coordinator, she works to plan and promote programs to show prospective students the value of a degree in the STEM fields. Outreach Programs Girl Scouts & Friends Project WISE STEM Day Volunteer Opportunities Resources Copyright © Clemson University PEER & WISE | 158 Freeman Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-0976 | Email Us