Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Services Home BC Police Department Services BC Police Department About Community Relations & Crime Prevention Services The Boston College Police have a variety of services and resources for members of our community to seek assistance in subjects ranging from traffic and parking issues to lost property on campus. In the event that what you are looking for is unavailable, contact us directly for further support. Bike Registration The Bike Carefully at Boston College is our department's Bicycle Safety and Registration program. The objective of our program is to promote bike safety and awareness for those who ride bikes on and around campus. Throughout the year, we offer numerous bicyle safety events on campus which include safety inspections with repairs, educational information sharing and free registration. Bike Registration Form Helpful Tips Protect your head. Wear a helmet. Assure bicycle readiness. Ensure proper size and function of your bike. Ride wisely. Learn and follow the rules of the road. Be predictable. Act like a driver of a vehicle. Be visible. See and be seen at all times. "Drive" with care. Share the road. Stay focused. Stay alert. Make sure front and rear lights are visible for up to at least 600 feet, and are used 1/2 hour before sunrise and 1/2 hour after sunset. Always use an authorized bike stand on campus, and never leave your bike unlocked. A rope style or U-Lock are the best for securing your bike. Take advantage of the BCPD Bike Registration. If you bike is ever stolen, report it to the BC Police. Did you know? According to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 85, Subsection 11B, the following are required for biking: Bike Seat White Headlamp Rear Red Reflector or Taillight Pedal or Ankle Reflectors Braking System Handlebars Front Forks Eagle Escort The purpose of Eagle Escort Services is to provide safety services for all members of the Boston College community traveling in and around campus. It is provided as a public safety service and is not intended as a substitute for public transportation, the various BC shuttles (including the Grocery & Newton Center shuttle) or local taxi services. Participants may be required to present their Boston College ID to Eagle Escort personnel prior to services rendered. Infirmary Shuttles The Eagle Escort Van provides regularly scheduled shuttles from the Primary Care Center to St. Elizabeth’s Hospital Monday through Friday at the following times: 8am, 9:30am, 11am, 1:30pm, 3pm, 4:30pm, and 6pm. This shuttle is open to all Boston College students and may be used for transportation to medical offices in the area of St. Elizabeth’s. The return shuttle times from St. Elizabeth’s Hospital to the Boston College Chestnut Hill Campus is 8:15am, 9:45am, 11:15am, 1:45pm, 3:15pm, 4:45pm, and 6:15pm. The only pick-up location will be at the front entrance of the Hospital located on Nevins Street near the Brighton High School. Medical Transport Boston College students must first contact Health Services in Cushing Hall (617-552-3225) or the Disability Services Office in Maloney Hall 212 (617-552-3470) and ask to be added to the medical transport list for Eagle Escort Services. After this step has been completed, Boston College students may then contact Eagle Escort Services to request transport. Boston College students with a medical or temporary disability can be picked up and dropped off on Middle Campus once a day. Once classes are complete, a return trip to the residence hall will be provided. If a rest or break is needed between classes, the student may go to Health Services. Medical Transport services start at 7 AM and end at 7 PM. The Eagle Escort Van will also be used any time the Primary Care Center determines that a Boston College student, who has been admitted to their office for medical treatment, needs to be transported non-emergency to the Hospital for additional medical services, such as X-rays. Any Boston College student requiring emergency transport to the Hospital will be taken by ambulance. Safety Escort The Eagle Escort Van will provide safety transportation for Boston College students who are traveling to or from locations that are located within a 2 ½ mile radius from the Chestnut Hill campus. If safe to do so, Boston College students requesting assistance in the Cleveland Circle area should wait for the Van at the Reservoir T Stop. Notify the Dispatcher if that location is unsafe and an alternative location can be used. Groups of three (3) or more Boston College students are encouraged to make use of the other transportation services available. As it is our goal to ensure that this service is available for Boston College students who are in genuine need, it is requested that Boston College students remember that the Safety Escort Service is not intended as a substitute for public transportation, the various BC shuttles (including the Grocery & Newton Center shuttle), or local taxi services. Emergency Blue Lights The Boston College campuses are equipped with over 100 emergency call boxes. These units, identified by the blue light on top, are strategically placed throughout campus, as well as in the parking garages. In an emergency, a call box is activated by pressing the emergency button on the front where you are immediately connected with the Boston College Police Department. This activation creates an open line of communication between the person requiring emergency assistance and the police dispatcher. A police officer is then dispatched to that location to provide necessary assistance. Fingerprint Request The Boston College Police Department offers fingerprinting service free of charge to all current Boston College faculty, staff and students. Please carefully review all the instructions and requirements below. Fingerprint services are only scheduled online and are offered on Tuesday and Thursday from 2:00-5:00 PM. Access to the fingerprint application requires you to be connected to the EagleVPN (BC’s Virtual Private Network). Due to the safety precautions and sanitizing requirements surrounding the Covid-19 virus, one appointment per hour will be available. Single person appointments only. Applicants must show a CLEARED BC Check result for the scheduled day before service will be provided. Electronic fingerprint service is now available. For inked prints, standard FD-258 fingerprint cards will be provided if needed. If different cards are required, you must provide them. Do Not fill in, or sign the cards prior to your arrival. You must bring a government issued ID (driver's/professional license, passport, etc.), and your BC ID. Service cannot be provided without these documents. Appointments may only be schedule using the link below which requires your standard BC credentials and an active connection through the EagleVPN to sign-in. Details and instructions for the EagleVPN can be found here. Duplicate requests will not be accepted. If the schedule for your preferred day does not display an open slot, one is not available. You may try again later, or choose another day to see if slots are available. Schedule your appointment Please note that this service if for printed copies of your fingerprint’s only, and are not criminal background checks. For personal CORI Requests, please visit this link to the Massachusetts Department of Criminal Justice Information Services website. Lost & Found Property found may be turned in at any time to the Boston College Police Department, located at Maloney Hall, next to the Hillside Bookstore. Inquires About Lost Property You can call or email BCPD's Property Control Officer to inquire about lost items at (617) 552-4416, Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m.- 3:00 p.m. Outside of these hours, you can still contact Police Dispatch at (617) 552-4440 to inquire as to the status of lost items. You may also complete this form below (see link) to request information as to whether the item has been turned in to BCPD as found property. You will only be contacted, if an item matching the description you have provided, has been received. Otherwise, your information will be added to our Lost and Found Call list. BCPD Lost Property Inquiry Form All found property, or property submitted for safekeeping of high value, shall be kept by the Department for a period not to exceed one (1) year. All efforts will be made to ascertain who the property belongs to. Items of lesser value such as licenses, credit cards, etc. shall be kept by the Department for not more than 30 days. Items outside of those listed above remaining unclaimed or abandoned will be delivered to Propertyroom.com, Inc. and sold by internet auction. Examples of Accepted Items: Cell Phones Laptops MP3 players/iPods Wallets/Purses Eyeglasses Backpacks Keys Jewelry Textbooks Items having ownership information High Value Clothing items Examples of items not accepted unless contained in a bag, backpack, or other storage vessel: Individual Clothing items, not considered high value Perishable items / Food Flammable Items (lighters, etc) Small recreational items (soccer balls, frisbees, baseballs, etc) Personal grooming items (combs, brushes, bows, ribbons, scrunchies, etc) Intentionally abandoned property (electronic equipment that obviously does not work, damaged furniture, items placed by trash containers for disposal, etc) Office supplies (individual notebooks, pens, etc) Retrieving Property Any property not coordinated for the release prior to 3:00 p.m., Monday thru Friday will be held until the next business day for release by the Property Control Officer. When an owner is unable to meet with the Property Control Officer during the normal business hours to retrieve an item, the Property Control Officer may arrange to have property stored in a secure location for release by a duty supervisor. If you have questions… If you have questions about whether BCPD will accept an item, please contact the Property Control Officer at (617) 552-4416 or the Boston College Police Department at (617) 552-4440. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College