Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Former Students Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Readmission for Former UH Students You must apply for re-admission if you: were previously enrolled in undergraduate coursework at the University of Houston and are ready to return to UH after an enrollment pause of 13 months or longer or are ready to return to UH from academic suspension Readmission Criteria Readmission to the University of Houston will vary based on the following items: Your academic standing from when you last attended UH (good standing or warning/probation/suspension). The amount of time since your last enrollment at UH. Student records are discontinued after thirteen months (3 consecutive long semesters) of non-enrollment. If you are reapplying to your former major or a different major. If you have taken coursework outside of UH during your time away. Your GPA may be considered cumulatively, meaning all college coursework attempted, or your UH GPA may be looked at separately from coursework taken outside of the university. Disciplinary actions and certain circumstances may impact or prevent enrollment or academic progress regardless of academic standing. Such actions may include but are not limited to, violations of academic honesty, conduct code violations, or payment default of financial responsibility to the university. Readmission Pathway The pathway for readmission of former students to the University of Houston (UH) is determined by the students’ UH academic standing and length of time since they were last enrolled at UH. The readmission process may include additional documents and earlier deadlines. Please see the Readmission Student Application Guide to understand the readmission path that applies to your circumstances. The standards below apply to all undergraduate and post baccalaureate students. Students who entered under a previous catalog will be held to these standards. The following colleges have their own limits and definitions of academic standing or readmission requirements. Students are encouraged to review policies for their majors as they may be more stringent than the university policies. The dean of each college maintains final authority to determine academic standing for student majors within that college. Cullen College of Engineering College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Kathrine G. McGovern College of the Arts Steps to Apply If your enrollment has paused for less than 13 months and you're not academically suspended, then do not apply for readmission. You must meet with an academic advisor in your previous major to discuss course registration. If your enrollment has paused for 13 months or longer or your academic standing is Suspended, then complete the following steps: Complete the Undergraduate Readmission Application for the University of Houston using the ApplyTexas Application. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee with a credit card, debit card, or check. Checks can be made out to the University of Houston, 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. Have your most updated official transcript from all colleges and universities attended sent to the University of Houston. Please note that some colleges require additional items to be submitted, please check your myUH account or visit our website to ensure that you send in all necessary documents. Transcripts Readmission applicants must submit the most updated official transcripts from ALL colleges and universities attended to the University of Houston. Choose one of the following options. EDI - Request an official transcript to be sent through an EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) system, e.g. Speede (FICE code: 003662) or Naviance. PDF - You may also upload an official PDF copy of your transcript to your my.uh.edu self-service account to complete your application. Official transcripts must either state “official,” have your institutions seal, a signature by a school official, or an official watermark. It’s up to the discretion of the Office of Admissions to determine the validity of the transcript, and the office reserves the right to request additional or different copies if needed. Please review your myUH To Do List for a live update on which transcripts are needed. If any of the transcripts we have on file from when you last applied have in progress courses or are not in line with the dates you provided on your most recent readmission application, we will need an updated transcript from the institution. Fee Waivers Readmission students are not eligible for fee waivers and must pay the application fee for the term in which they are applying to. You can pay your application fee when you're applying via Apply Texas or the Common App or via your myUH account once your application has been received. It is important to note that you are only eligible for review for the semester in which you apply. If you are denied or are interested in a different term, you will have to pay the $75 application again. Readmission Deadlines Students who left in Good Standing or Academic Warning: Summer 2022 Application Deadline – 5/2/2022 Supporting Information* Due – 5/9/2022 Fall 2022 Application Deadline – 6/30/2022 Supporting Information*** Due – 7/8/2022 Students who left on Academic Probation or Suspension: Summer 2022 Not available** Fall 2022 Students who left on Academic Probation Application Deadline – 5/31/2022 Supporting Information*** Due – 6/10/2022 Students who left on Suspension Application Deadline – 5/31/2022 Supporting Information*** Due – 6/10/2022 *To expedite your admissions decision, you'll only be considered for readmission into your previous major. If you want to switch to a different major, you'll be able to work with your academic advisor once you're admitted. **Students on probation or suspension are not eligible to apply for the summer semester ***Supporting Information includes submitting transcripts, application fee, and test scores. Timeline for Decisions Decisions for readmission will vary for each academic college. Please note that there is no average timeline for a decision, and you will hear directly from the Office of Admission once a decision has been rendered on your account. It is important to submit all application materials early to avoid delays in your decision timeframe. Advising Readmission applicants are required to see the academic advisor of the major in which they are applying to. Your academic advisor can give you guidance on whether you are admissible to the college you have selected and what courses you would be required to take upon admission. Readmission applicants may see a Readmit Advising hold on their myUH account which will only prevent you from registering for courses if admitted. This advising hold will not prevent you from receiving your admission decision. Archived Information If you attended the University of Houston prior to 2005, your information was archived due to a system change. In order to provide you with the most accurate advising, your records will need to be de-archived. You will need to meet with an Admissions Advisor to submit this request and initiate the process. Speak with an Admissions Counselor Admissions counselors are experts when it comes to applying to the University of Houston. If you'd like to talk to an admissions counselor for admissions support, we're offering virtual advising by appointment. Please note that admissions counselors do not provide support with course selection or registration. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies