Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home Human Resources Prospective Employees Human Resources Home Menu employee-lifecycle Covid-19 Testing Resources New Employees Additional Resources Classification/Compensation Employee Benefits Employee Relations Payroll Services Records Management Training / Professional Development Talent Acquisition Hiring Toolkit Equal Employment Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employee Networks fairness University of Wyoming Job Listings Job ListingsClick view and apply! > Job Listings for Current UW EmployeesClick view and apply! > Executive Job ListingsClick to view and apply! > Post Doctoral Research AssociatesStanding Advertisement > Part-Time LecturersStanding Advertisement > Prospective Employees The University of Wyoming is always looking for the best and brightest to contribute to our wonderful community. The links below provide information that may prove useful while considering your employment options here at UW. If you are an individual with a disability and require a reasonable accommodation to complete any part of the application process, or are limited in the ability or unable to access or use our online application process and need an alternative method for applying, you may contact 307-766-2377 for assistance. Additional Information About Our Listings Classified Staff: Classified positions are jobs that are assigned to particular titles, job families and paygrades. Classified staff positions focus primarily on supporting education, research, and the campus infrastructure. If a position entails performing such functions, it may be deemed as Classified. Administrative/Executive: Administrative postings include: executive level positions such as development officers, directors and non-classified administrative assistants Faculty/Academic: These listings include faculty, academic professionals, lecturers, post-doctoral research associates and research scientists. In addition, the University of Wyoming is always looking for qualified Post-Doctoral Research Associates and Part-Time Lecturers. Interested candidates may inquire and/or submit materials to the head or chair of the appropriate department. Work Study: Work Study listings are only available for students of the University of Wyoming that have been awarded work study via Financial Aid. These listings includes hourly, non-benefited positions available around for those that qualify around campus. Part-Time Worker: Non-Benefited listings are available for anyone to apply to and be considered. Student: Student listings are only available for full-time students of the University of Wyoming. These listings includes hourly, non-benefited positions available around campus. To see other possible career opportunities, internships and/or obtain information as a graduating student seeking employment, you can check out the Center for Advising and Career Services page. **All Student and Work Study positions will be posted on Handshake for extra visibility! Before You Apply It is important to think about a few things before you begin the application process. You will want to gather information regarding your employment history, dates, addresses and phone numbers for previous employers and references; anything you may not know off the top of your head. You will have approximately 30 minutes to complete the application before the system will time you out after a period of inactivity. However, the system does allow for you to save your application as a draft and you can access it at a later time to finish and submit your materials. The recommended web browser for reviewing and applying to jobs at UW is Firefox. You will be allowed to upload a maximum of 10 file attachments, which are limited to 1000 KB each in size. When uploading a resume, make sure it is one of the accepted file types. We accept .PDF .DOC .DOCX .RTF and .TXT The system does require that you have an e-mail address. If you do not have one please visit one of these sites to obtain a free account, www.gmail.com or www.yahoo.com. Clear your cookies and temporary Internet files before you begin. You can find that in your Internet options under tools, browsing history. You will get an email once your application is submitted successfully, if you do not get that message, you did not successfully apply. Questions about the process, or help troubleshooting can be directed to UW Human Resources at 307-766-2377. UW Employment Policy It is the policy of the university not to hire any person convicted of a crime the nature of which is reasonably related to the applicant's fitness for the job. No person convicted of a felony of any nature shall be hired without the approval of the hiring unit's vice president or the Director of Athletics, if appropriate. Further, it is against university policy to hire any person who has been convicted of (1) a felony involving violence or (2) a sex crime against a minor or a sex crime involving violence. The University of Wyoming is committed to providing a safe and productive learning and living community. To achieve that goal, we conduct background investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. Background checks may include, but are not limited to, criminal history, national sex offender search, employment and motor vehicle history. Offers of employment are contingent upon the completion of the background check. The University of Wyoming will only consider degrees from accredited universities/colleges that are recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. It is your responsibility to ensure your application materials were submitted. The system will send an email that we successfully received your application. If you are unsure you can double check your profile or call our office and we can check for you. UW's EEO/AA Hiring Statement The University of Wyoming is an Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law and University policy. To review the EEO is the Law Poster and its Supplement, please see The Diversity & Fairness page. Pursuant to Wyoming State law, W.S. 19-14-102, as amended, an honorably discharged veteran who has been a resident of the state of Wyoming for one (1) year or more at any time prior to the date when the veteran applies for employment, or any surviving spouse who was married to such veteran at the time of the veteran’s death, who is receiving federal survivor benefits based on the veteran’s military service and is applying for employment, shall receive an interview preference during the applicant screening process with the University of Wyoming. At the time of application the applicant must possess the business capacity, competency, education or other qualifications required for the position. If disabilities do not materially interfere with performance of job duties, disabled veterans will be given preference over able-bodied veterans. Appropriate documentation of veteran status must be provided at time of application as outlined in the application process. No preference will be given to a veteran currently employed by a public department. We conduct background investigations for all final candidates being considered for employment. Offers of employment are contingent upon the completion of the background check. Applicants with disabilities may request accommodation to complete the application and selection process. Please notify Human Resources at least three (3) working days prior to the date of need. Summary of BenefitsClick to view UW's Summary of Benefits > Learn About Living in LaramieClick to view a video about Laramie, WY > Labor Certification Posting NoticesLabor Certification Posting Notices > 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility