COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Performance - Instrumental, Major MajorMusic Performance - Instrumental All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music A Bachelor of Music (BM) in performance—instrumental emphasis—will help take your musical talent to a higher level. You’ll train like a professional with acclaimed faculty. And you’ll have the opportunity to dazzle audiences on campus and across the state’s center of arts and culture. The degree is ideal for advanced study in music—and opens doors to successful performance careers locally, nationally and internationally. Learn how music performance - instrumental is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the School of Music, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you’re admitted to WSU, you’ll need to schedule an audition through the School of Music. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Playing the trumpet is easier with WSU invention Music education majors have the opporutunity to learn from innovative faculty members. David Hunsicker is not only a longtime musician. The associate professor of trumpet is also an inventor and business owner. Hunsicker partnered with WSU’s National Institute for Aviation Research and WSU Ventures to create the Gapper, a flexible plastic device that allows musicians to control the third valve slide. Hunsicker says the ring on the third valve slide tends to be too big for musicians with smaller hands. The gap between the finger and the ring causes a delay in moving the slide, which results in a missed note. The Gapper fixes that problem. Curriculum The BM in performance degree combines courses in performance, history and literature of music, conducting, WSU’s general education requirements and more. In addition, all music majors must pass a piano proficiency examination. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Music Music (Minor) Music Composition Jazz and Contemporary Media Music Education - Instrumental 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©