Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home Resources List We understand that recent developments have been difficult for our students and have compiled a comprehensive list of resources for you. We understand that recent developments have been difficult for our students and have compiled a comprehensive list of resources for you. Students are encouraged to stay up-to-date on COVID-19 guidance for the Columbia Community on www.columbia.edu/content/coronavirus and by checking out the FAQs. Columbia Health has a M-F 9am-5pm call center to field specific inquiries that community members may have at 212-854-9355 (WELL). Columbia Engineering Resources The Office of Graduate Student Affairs (GSA) [email protected] | https://gradengineering.columbia.edu/ For any questions regarding academics and student life. Additionally, questions about Graduate SEAS housing can be sent to the email address above. Associate Director of Wellness, Asha De Costa [email protected] | Zoom Appointments The Associate Director of Wellness is available to chat, especially if students are having a difficult time adjusting to recent developments and for any other times that students need someone to just talk to. The Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC) https://egsc.engineering.columbia.edu/ EGSC is the student governing body of the graduate students at Columbia Engineering. You can reach out to them with concerns as well. Columbia University Resources Columbia Health For health related questions and updates. Columbia Preparedness Helping Columbia University community be prepared and informed. Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) CPS now offers phone and/or Zoom appointments for students that would like to speak to a counselor. To schedule an appointment, please call 212-854-2878. International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO) Student support is available virtually. Student Financial Services For support on a number of support offices including CUID processing and financial questions Registrar For overall information on academic policies. Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Details on remote sessions and Zoom as well as technical support Resources Outside of the Columbia Community NYC.Gov For information on how to help and volunteer the city’s community - as well as updates from the City of New York. NYC.Gov Services and Resources page For information on assistance and support from New York city government Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students The Dean's Office of Columbia Engineering and the Engineering Graduate Student Council (EGSC) have partnered to create a SEAS COVID-19 Emergency Fund for registered doctoral students at Columbia Engineering who have urgent and time-sensitive COVID-19-related financial emergencies that cannot be addressed by any other source. Grants may vary in amount but will not exceed $500. MORE Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University