Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN ProgramAdmissionsRequest Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions Pre-Admittance Pre-Admittance The Pre-Admittance program at the Loewenberg College of nursing is designed for high school seniors who are interested in a nursing career and meet the qualifications for the highly selective program. Pre-admitted students will enter the College of Nursing no sooner than their 4th semester at the University of Memphis and after successful completion of all prerequisite courses. Early entry into the program will not be permitted. Pre-admitted students who do not enter the College of Nursing in their specified semester will forfeit their guaranteed seat and will be required to re-apply for admission to the nursing program. How to Apply Apply to LCON using the following two steps: Step 1: Apply to the University of Memphis as a degree-seeking undergraduate student. 1: Apply to UofM > Step 2: Once accepted to the UofM, begin the application process to the Loewenberg College of Nursing. 2: Apply to LCON > Deadline to Apply Application Opens Application Deadline September 15 January 1 Please allow up to six (6) weeks following the application deadline before inquiring about the status of an application. Pre-Admissions Criteria Applicants are ranked based on the GPA and ACT. Only the top ranked applicants will be offered pre-admission. Be admitted to the University of Memphis as a degree-seeking undergraduate student. Submission of a completed online application to the Loewenberg College of Nursing (LCON) prior to the published deadline. Completion of high school Algebra I, II, Geometry, Biology, and Chemistry. Minimum ACT score of 23 with a minimum score of 21 in all areas. Graduation from an accredited high school with a cumulative grade point average of 3.0. BSN Admissions Criteria Minimum cumulative college GPA of 2.7 Prerequisite Courses: Science: BIOL 2010/2011 - Anatomy & Physiology I/Lab Science: BIOL 2020/2021 - Anatomy & Physiology II/Lab Science: BIOL 1230/1231 - Microbiology/Lab PSYC 1030 or SOCI 1010 MATH 1420, 1530, 1710, 1730, 1830, or 1910 NUTR 2202 or NUTR 3202 - Nutrition - or - Nutrition/Health Care A minimum grade of "C" is required in all prerequisite courses. Minimum of 2.66 cumulative GPA is required for prerequisite science courses. 1 science prerequisite course may be repeated only once; if repeated, the second earned letter grade of the repeated course will be used in the science GPA calculation (regardless if grade is higher or lower). The first letter grade for the remaining 2 courses will be used in the science GPA calculation. A maximum of only two (2) general education courses outstanding (6 hours). The following courses can be taken before or after entering the Nursing Program: Upper Division Elective – (Nursing or Non-Nursing) Statistics – (SOCI 3311, EDPR 4541, or MATH 1530) Resume Letter of Interest To learn about resumes/letter of interest, visit Career Services. Recommendation Letter Can be written by anyone that can speak to your academic ability (i.e. Professor, Counselor, Advisor, etc.) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.