Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Education Academics Forward Arrow Academics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Back Arrow Back Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs Forward Arrow Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Back Arrow Back Doctoral Programs Forward Arrow Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Educational Programs Forward Arrow Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Back Arrow Back Labs Forward Arrow Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Back Arrow Back Centers and Institutes Forward Arrow Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Student Advising Forward Arrow Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Back Arrow Back Field Experience Forward Arrow Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Back Arrow Back Student Opportunities Forward Arrow Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Back Arrow Back Student Resources Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About From the Dean Administration Departments Forward Arrow Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Directory Forward Arrow Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Back Arrow Back Alumni and Friends Forward Arrow Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Back Arrow Back Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting Forward Arrow Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Back Arrow Back Employee Services Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close College of Education Academics show submenu for Academics Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Agricultural Education Early Childhood Education, B.A. Elementary Education, B.A. Human Capital Education & Development, B.S. Middle Level Education, B.S. Mathematics Teaching, B.S. Modern Languages Education, B.A. Special Education, B.A. Secondary Education, B.A. Science Teaching, B.S./B.A. Athletic Leadership Minor Expressway to Tiger Town Bachelors To Masters Masters and Specialist Programs show submenu for Masters and Specialist Programs Athletic Leadership (Online) Counselor Education Educational Leadership Human Resource Development Literacy (Online) Middle Level Education, MAT Secondary Education, MAT Special Education (Online) Student Affairs Teaching and Learning (Online) Doctoral Programs show submenu for Doctoral Programs Education Systems Improvement Science Educational Leadership Learning Sciences Literacy, Language and Culture Special Education Teaching and Learning Certificates | Endorsements | Licensure Research show submenu for Research Start Your Proposal Resources REAL Lunches Grant Fellows Program Programs show submenu for Programs Educational Programs show submenu for Educational Programs Call Me MISTER® ClemsonLIFE Expressway To Tiger Town Human Capital Education and Development CU Teacher Learning Progression STEM - STEAM Teaching Fellows Upstate Writing Project Labs show submenu for Labs Arts and Creativity Lab Contexts of Learning & Development Lab CLEaR Lab Digital Media Learning Lab IDEA Lab Centers and Institutes show submenu for Centers and Institutes Digital Media and Learning Center Education Media Center Reading Recovery Training Center SC-CEIMS SC-CREDE Students show submenu for Students Student Advising show submenu for Student Advising Bridge & Transfer Students Change of Major FAQs Prospective Students Field Experience show submenu for Field Experience Cooperating Teachers and Site Mentors Teacher Education Field Experience Teacher Residency University Supervisors Student Opportunities show submenu for Student Opportunities Student Advisory Boards Student Organizations Study Abroad Teaching Fellows Departmental Honors Student Resources About show submenu for About From the Dean show submenu for From the Dean Dean's Leadership Institute Administration Departments show submenu for Departments Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Directory show submenu for Directory Administration and Support Centers and Programs Education and Human Development Educational and Organizational Leadership Development Teaching and Learning Alumni and Friends show submenu for Alumni and Friends Advancement Board About the Moore Family 2021 Masters & Doctoral Graduates Inclusive Excellence Innovation and Outreach Annual Reporting show submenu for Annual Reporting CAEP Reporting Employee Services Clemson Home College of Education Students Student Opportunities Current: Student Organizations Student Organizations Chi Sigma Alpha-Beta Chapter Clemson University is home to the Beta Chapter of Chi Sigma Alpha, Student Affairs Academic and Professional Honor Society, International. Chi Sigma Alpha is designed to honor and recognize professionals, faculty and graduate students in student affairs for excellence in three pillars: academics, service to the profession and research. Graduate students must have completed one full semester prior to induction. Faculty Advisors: Rebecca Atkinson and Tony Cawthon, Ph.D. Chi Sigma Iota: Chi Upsilon Chapter The Chi Upsilon Chapter of Chi Sigma Iota is an International Counseling Academic and Professional Honor Society. Our mission is to promote scholarship, research, professionalism and excellence in counseling, and to recognize high attainment in the pursuit of academic and clinical excellence in the field of counseling. If you are interested in joining please visit CSI website and fill out an application. Faculty Advisor: David Scott, Ph.D. Council for Exceptional Children The Clemson University Chapter of the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC) is the student organization affiliated with the International CEC. CEC is the largest international professional organization dedicated to improving educational outcomes for individuals with exceptionalities, students with disabilities and/or the gifted. Clemson’s student chapter promotes positive outcomes for individuals with disabilities and organizes an annual Special Olympics for students with disabilities from Oconee and Pickens Counties. Faculty Advisors: Kent Parker Council of Teachers of English The Clemson University Council of Teachers of English is a recognized student affiliate of the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) and South Carolina Council of Teachers of English (SCCTE). Our members include students at the undergraduate and graduate levels and faculty in both English and education who are interested in improving literacy at the elementary, middle, secondary and college levels. CUCTE was formed during the 1998 academic year in order to provide opportunities for students to learn more about literacy programs in our schools and to interact with area literacy teachers. Our members participate in service projects aimed at literacy development and participate in professional development activities at the local (UWP), state (SCCTE) and national level (NCTE). For membership information, call 864-250-6712. Faculty Advisor: Rebecca Kaminski, Ed.D. Council of Teachers of Mathematics Clemson University Student Council of Teachers of Mathematics (CUSCTM) is an organization for Clemson students interested in teaching mathematics, P-12. We are affiliated with the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics (NCTM), and have access to great resources for teaching. CUSCTM offers great opportunities for pre-service teachers to network and learn from each other. Our organization's goals include attending SCCTM and NCTM annual conferences, offering tutoring to local students and providing professional development opportunities. Please email cusctm@g.clemson.edu for more information. The Clemson University Student Council of Teachers of Mathematics was recognized in April 2011 by Omicron Delta Kappa — a Leadership Honor with a $500 check and a plaque for academic achievement. Faculty Advisor: Leigh Martin International Literacy Association Student Council The Clemson University ILA Student Council is a professional organization affiliated with the International Literacy Association. Its purpose is to promote literacy, literacy instruction and to provide pre-service teachers the opportunity to join a professional organization. Members must be a Clemson student, faculty or staff member and must attend at least one meeting per semester. Meetings are held in September, November, February and April. South Carolina Association for the Education of Young Children SCAEYC is the state affiliate of the National Association for the Education of Young Children, and the student organization of SCAEYC represents Clemson University’s affiliation with both SCAEYC and NAEYC. Students who are majors in early childhood education, elementary education or related fields that prepare students to work directly with children from birth through grade three are eligible for membership. Membership in the student organization also includes membership in the state and national organizations. Benefits include the nationally refereed journal, Young Children, reduced costs to attend conferences and the opportunity in professional development events that prepare students for their future roles as teachers. Faculty Advisor: Anna Hall, Ph.D. National Science Teachers Association The Clemson University Chapter of the National Science Teachers Association (CCNSTA) is a recognized student affiliate of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA). NSTA supports science teaching P-12 and CCNSTA encourages membership from Clemson students that are interested in science teaching at the elementary, middle or secondary level. NSTA is the largest organization in the world committed to promoting excellence and innovation in science teaching and learning for all and, as such, they offer fantastic resources for the science classroom and a great network of teachers nationwide. The main goal of CCNSTA is to allow Clemson's pre-service science educators to network with one another. This is an excellent opportunity to share our experiences and grow professionally. CCNSTA is open to anyone with an interest in science education. Faculty Advisors: Cynthia Deaton National Education Association Aspiring Educators The Clemson Aspiring Educators Chapter is a recognized student affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA) Aspiring Educators and The Student South Carolina Education Association (SCEA). Our members include students at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Our organization strives to support, prepare, and empower diverse, aspiring educators with numerous resources, networks, and opportunities. Our mission is to provide a community where future educators feel comfortable to share and grow. Members participate informative seminars, community outreach, and state and national-level events through The SCEA and NEA. Please email clemsonaspiringeducators@gmail.com for more information. Faculty/Staff Advisors: Jill Shelnut and Valerie Oonk. College of Education "Best In Class" Copyright © Clemson University College of Education "Best In Class" | 101 Gantt Circle 864-656-7656 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Twitter Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson