Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search About Research at UM About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Stories About Research at UM About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship AAA Stories About Research at UM About the Vice Provost for Research Research Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Additional Resources Contact Us About Research & Scholarship We are over 250 professionals with expertise in guiding faculty, staff, and learners through the entire Research Lifecycle, from project conception and grant submission to sharing your results with the world and creating commercial opportunities. We are connectors, grant writers, proposal gurus, financial analysts, compliance experts, animal caretakers, software developers, project managers, negotiators, and much more. We work together to ensure that the University of Miami reaches its greatest potential on a Roadmap to Our New Century. We make research and scholarship happen. research & scholarship strategic plan In 2021, we're reimagining the research and scholarship organization, guided by four goals: Improve Research Enabling Services to Support Growth in Scale and Impact of Research Advocate for Diversity in Research and Scholarship Coordinate the Development and Promote Effective Utilization of Research Facilities and Capacity Support Growth of Research and Scholarship and Facilitate Interdisciplinarity Our Teams Research Development & Evaluation Teams dedicated to connecting investigators with funding and with each other. They oversee the application and selection process for internal awards like U-LINK and the Provost’s Research Awards. They also provide help with grant writing and consultations with experts. Research Capacity & Operations These teams support reporting and data on sponsored projects at the University. They develop and maintain grant agreement management systems, effort certification and reporting, and research information technology. Research Administration The Research Administration team under the Office of the Vice Provost for Research includes professionals with vast combined experience in submitting successful award applications. The teams include specialists grouped by academic discipline and expertise. regulatory affairs & assessment Several offices under the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship are dedicated to ensuring the integrity, safety and compliance of the sponsored programs we undertake. These professionals have a deep knowledge of regulatory requirements and know how to ensure that the end product of your work meets the utmost standards. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices