Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? How Do I...Find Funding? Connect with a program officer/manager at a federal funding agency? Connecting with agency program officers/managers (PMs) typically involves some or all of the following steps and communication. Visit agency websites and read through their solicitations and broad agency announcements to figure out which PMs are best aligned with your research. Send an introductory email to the PM describing your research and how it might align with their programmatic priorities; request a brief telephone call to explore further. Prior to the phone call, send some read-ahead materials--i.e., white paper (1-2 pages) or a few slides. Provided there is interest, offer to send additional materials (e.g., longer white paper, publications) and/or suggest an in-person meeting the next time you are in the Washington, D.C. area. Research Development staff [[email protected] , 3-6301] can assist you with any of these steps, including identifying well-aligned PMs, drafting introductory emails and white papers, and staffing phone calls and agency visits. Find funding for research in my area of expertise? The Office of the Vice-President for Research, the Brown Library, and the Office of Foundation Relations provide various services to help you search for external funding opportunities. The Office of the Vice-President for Research and many other offices also offer internal funding to help advance scholarly projects. Apply for a seed grant? OVPR offers a number of internal funding opportunities. Detailed guidelines and deadline information are available in the OVPR 2017 Research Funds and Application Guidelines for each type of grant. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? Find Funding Prepare a Grant Proposal Manage an Award Other Suggest Additional Questions 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat