Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Student Conduct Show/Hide Home About COVID-19 Code of Student Conduct FAQs Filing a Complaint Emergency Protocols Contact Us COVID-19 Student Conduct Procedures 2021-2022 Academic Year As a community, we are committed to protecting our health and the health and safety of those around us. Brown’s values of caring for others in the University and Providence community, centering education and social justice, and holding each other accountable in ways which restore and transform our community for the better are at the center of our mission. In the interest of the health and safety of those at Brown and in Providence, especially during the novel coronavirus pandemic, we all commit to engage with each other in healthy and safe ways. To hold members of the campus community accountable for this expectation, our focus will primarily be on education and informal conversation. However, we recognize that disciplinary approaches may sometimes be necessary in order to protect the larger Brown and Providence communities when conduct is of a higher degree and severity or presents a direct threat to individuals. Failure to abide by the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and all University COVID-19 policies, procedures, requirements, and rules contained on the Healthy Brown website and/or communicated to me by the University (collectively, “the COVID-19 Policies”) is a violation of the Code of Student Conduct (“Code”), and alleged violations will be addressed through the COVID-19 Student Conduct Procedures (“COVID-19 Procedures”). For cases assigned to be managed through the COVID-19 Procedures, these procedures will supersede the regular Student Conduct Procedures and will apply to ancillary charges. Failure to follow the COVID-19 Policies may present a direct threat to the health and safety of our University community. These COVID-19 Procedures will ensure that concerns are addressed promptly in an attempt to prevent or limit the spread of the coronavirus. The COVID-19 Procedures are subject to periodic review and changes by the University, which will be posted on the website at www.brown.edu/osccs. Students are expected to remain informed of any revisions and read the website on a regular basis. The Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards (“OSCCS”) will review all reports alleging prohibited conduct and determine whether the information relates to a potential violation of the COVID-19 Policies. In such instances, OSCCS will follow the COVID-19 Procedures for addressing alleged violations. OSCCS will determine when any ancillary alleged violations of the Code of Student Conduct will be heard within the same process. These COVID-19 Procedures have been created to protect the health and safety of the University community during the pandemic. As with the Code of Student Conduct, they reflect Brown’s values in caring for others in the University community, educating students, and using restorative approaches to remediate behaviors. In evaluating reports regarding alleged violations of the COVID-19 Policies, OSCCS will take into account a variety of factors before determining how the report will be handled. Whenever possible the focus will be on education and community accountability. As part of the COVID-19 Procedures, a student may be subject to removal from campus, interim academic suspension, or other interim measures as provided for in the Interim Measures section below. Non-Disciplinary Responses One or more of the following non-disciplinary responses will be used in situations where the alleged behavior may violate the COVID-19 Policies and, based on the information received, OSCCS determines it does not require a disciplinary response but requires educational intervention, whether in writing or through conversation. Students do not have a right to a non-disciplinary response prior to OSCCS initiating a disciplinary response. As with all matters addressed by OSCCS, these interventions will be recorded with OSCCS for reference purposes and to track any repetitive or patterns of behaviors. The following communications will be sent via email, and a text message will be sent if the student’s cell phone number is on file. All other communications will be through email or phone. Reminder Letter. A non-disciplinary, written communication to the student regarding the allegations, including a reminder of the relevant COVID-19 Policies and educational materials around COVID-19 health and safety practices. Educational Conversation. Students will meet virtually or in-person with an administrator for a non-disciplinary discussion about the alleged behavior that is of concern. Students will be informed about the COVID-19 Policies that may have been violated. Administrators will provide educational content for the student to review. Some situations may require that this or a subsequently assigned meeting be with a health educator. Procedure: Students will receive a letter with the assigned date and time for the Educational Conversation. They will be required to attend the meeting (or contact OSCCS to reschedule) or their case will be immediately forwarded to a COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting as a disciplinary matter. If deemed appropriate, a second mandatory meeting may be scheduled for students to meet with a health educator at the recommendation of the administrator. Community Impact Circle. Students will meet virtually or in-person with trained facilitators, representative community members, and/or other students alleged to have violated the COVID-19 Policies for a mediated dialogue aimed at discussing community expectations and norms around COVID-19 and community harms and challenges when the COVID-19 Policies are not followed. Procedure: Students will receive a letter with the assigned date and time for the Community Impact Circle. They will be required to attend the meeting (or contact OSCCS to reschedule or request an Educational Conversation instead) or their case will be immediately forwarded to a COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting as a disciplinary matter. If deemed appropriate, a mandatory meeting may be scheduled for students to meet with a health educator at the recommendation of the circle facilitator. Disciplinary Responses These responses will be used in situations where the alleged behavior may violate the COVID-19 Policies and, based on the information received, OSCCS determines a disciplinary response is appropriate. Students do not have a right to a non-disciplinary response prior to OSCCS initiating a disciplinary response. These interventions may result in a conduct record if a student is found responsible. These responses are similar to those used in the Student Conduct Procedures, with adjustments to reflect the health and safety concerns related to COVID-19’s ability to be transmitted through community spread. The following communications will be sent via email, and a text message will be sent if the student’s cell phone number is on file. All other communications will be through email or phone. Letter in Lieu of Review Meeting. For some alleged first-time violations for which OSCCS determines a disciplinary response is warranted, students may receive a Letter in Lieu of a Dean’s Review Meeting. The letter will notify the student of the alleged conduct and proposed outcome. Students will have the option of either accepting responsibility for the alleged conduct and the proposed outcome or choosing a COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting. A Letter in Lieu of Review Meeting is not a prerequisite to a COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting, COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing, or Administrative Hearing. COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting. For repeated alleged violations and/or more significant or purposeful singular alleged violations of the COVID-19 Policies (except for alleged violations of the COVID-19 vaccination requirement or more significant or repeated alleged violations of the COVID-19 testing requirements which are covered in Section 3 below), a student will be required to meet virtually or in-person with a Dean, or other assigned administrator where they will be given an opportunity to be heard. When possible, for cases with a respondent from the Alpert Medical School or the Graduate School, a dean from the respective school will decide the matter. Procedure: Students will receive a letter notifying them of the alleged violation with the assigned date and time for the Dean’s Review Meeting. They will be required to attend the meeting (or contact OSCCS to reschedule) or their case will be heard in their absence based on the information available to OSCCS. Students may be required to self-quarantine until a decision is rendered by OSCCS. Students will receive the Dean’s decision within 3 business days of the meeting. All outcomes, including all accompanying terms, will be immediately implemented. If, based on all the information presented during the Dean’s Review Meeting, the Dean determines that a Suspension or Expulsion should be available as an outcome, the student may be removed and restricted from campus, placed on interim academic suspension, and/or have other interim measures imposed and the case will be referred to COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing (see section 3 below) or an Administrative Hearing under the Student Conduct Procedures. COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing. For alleged violations of the COVID-19 vaccination requirement or more significant or repeated alleged violations of the COVID-19 testing requirements, the student will be required to meet virtually or in-person with a Dean, or other assigned administrator, where they will be given an opportunity to be heard. Procedure: Students will be required to attend an initial meeting virtually or in person with a Dean, or other assigned administrator, where they will be notified of the alleged violation with the assigned date and time for the COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing. Students will then be required to attend the COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing virtually or in person where they will be given an opportunity to be heard. They will be required to attend the initial meeting and hearing (or contact OSCCS to reschedule) or their case will be heard in their absence based on the information available to OSCCS. Students may be required to self-quarantine until a decision is rendered by OSCCS. Students will receive the Dean’s decision within 3 business days of the hearing. All outcomes, including all accompanying terms, will be immediately implemented. Students may have an advisor present during the initial meeting and hearing. Advisors must be full-time faculty or staff members of the University but may not be attorneys. If, based on all the information presented during the Dean’s Hearing, the Dean determines that an Expulsion should be available as an outcome, the student may be removed and restricted from campus, placed on interim academic suspension, and/or have other interim measures imposed and the case will be referred to an Administrative Hearing under the Student Conduct Procedures. Graduate students who are members of the graduate student union bargaining unit may request that a union representative be present as an advisor at a COVID-19 Dean’s Review Meeting and a COVID-19 Dean’s Hearing. Requests may be made by completing this form and must be submitted 1 business day before the meeting. Requests will be approved if they meet the following requirements: Status 1. The student is in a semester-length appointment as a Research Assistant, Teaching Assistant, or Proctor; AND 2. The meeting is related to the employment relationship between the University and graduate student employee for said position. AND Timing 1. The alleged incident occurred during a semester when the student was a member of the union; OR 2. The meeting takes place during a semester when the student is a member of the union. Community Status. If a student is found responsible for violating the COVID-19 Policies, procedures, the Dean will assign a community status from the Student Conduct Procedures listed below: Reprimand. A reprimand is a written notice that a student has violated the Code and that another violation will likely result in a more severe community status. Probation. Probation is a designated period of time during which the student is given the opportunity to demonstrate the ability to abide by the community’s expectations of behavior articulated in the Code. Conditions regarding participation in University-sponsored activities may be imposed. Students on this community status are considered to not be in good community standing. Probation with Restrictions. Probation with restrictions is a designated period of time during which a student is given the opportunity to demonstrate the ability to abide by the community’s expectations of behavior articulated in the Code. A student on probation with restrictions shall not represent the University as an official delegate or representative, hold an office (elected or appointed) in University groups of any kind, or participate in University-sponsored travel or study abroad. If the student is found responsible for any additional Code violations during the period of probation with restrictions, the student may be subject to more severe disciplinary action. Students on this community status are considered to not be in good community standing. Suspension. Suspension is separation from the University for a designated period of time, after which the suspended student may petition the Dean of Students for re-enrollment to the University. The petition must demonstrate that the student has satisfied any accompanying terms of the suspension. A student who has been suspended may not be on University property without the prior written approval of the Dean of Students. A suspended student is prohibited from participating in any University activity or program. Suspensions result in a permanent entry on the internal academic record and official academic transcript maintained by the Registrar. Accompanying Terms. In addition to imposing a community status, the Dean may assign accompanying terms designed to encourage responsible behavior and support the well-being of the University community, help the responsible student learn from the experience, and ameliorate the effects of the conduct. Examples of accompanying terms include, but are not limited to: Removal or restriction from campus for the duration of the semester (this is not a suspension from a student's academic program of study but may impact their ability to continue their progress. In these cases there will be communication and coordination with the appropriate academic dean). Other educational terms and conditions such as meetings with health professionals, reflective essays, participation in a Community Impact Circle, readings, or other educational measures as appropriate. Appeals. Appeals must be received within 3 business days of receipt of the outcome letter and will normally be considered only when: (1) there is relevant new evidence that was not reasonably available to be presented to the Dean and that in the judgment of the Appeal Officer the introduction of the information may have changed the finding and/or outcome by the Dean; or (2) when a substantial procedural error by the University or Dean is demonstrated and in the reasonable judgment of the Appeal Officer such error is sufficient enough that it may have materially affected the decision of the Dean. Appeal decisions will be based on the information provided in the file, including the letter of appeal submitted by the student. If it is determined that the appeal has merit, the Appeal Officer may reduce the severity or terms of the community status and/or change the accompanying terms or may change the findings. The Director of Student Conduct & Community Standards or designee will serve as the Appeal Officer for all appeals. All appeal decisions are final. Interim Measures When there is a direct threat to the health or safety of the University community, it will be at the discretion of the Vice President for Campus Life or designee to implement interim measures, which include but are not limited to immediate loss of access to Canvas or other University resources, immediate interim removal from campus and/or an interim academic suspension from the University. Any interim measures, including removal or suspension, will be implemented immediately. Upon notice of the interim measures, students will have 24 hours to submit a written response requesting reconsideration. For interim removals from campus or academic suspensions, OSCCS will proceed with an investigative review before determining whether to proceed with a Dean’s Review Meeting or an Administrative Hearing Process as delineated in the Student Conduct Procedures. Reporting of Sanctions for COVID-19 Violations Academic Transcript Entries. When a student who has been suspended for violating the COVID-19 Policies petitions to re-enroll or at any time after they have been approved to re-enroll, they may also petition to have the transcript entry of “Suspended for Disciplinary Reasons” changed to “Not Enrolled”. The Dean of Students, or designee, will review the petition, case file, and any other relevant information and determine whether to modify the transcript entry. Reporting violations to external constituents. The Office of Student Conduct & Community Standards will report a student’s conduct record when asked by an external entity if there is a properly signed authorization by the student. We only report incidents that resulted in a community status of Probation or above. We do not report any charges for which you were found not responsible, any warning or reminder letters, or any No Contact Orders. If a student is found responsible for a Code violation related to the COVID-19 Policies and is assigned a community outcome of Probation or above, they may petition the Director of Student Conduct & Community Standards or designee to close their case from external reporting. Student Groups Student Organizations will go through the Student Conduct Procedures for Student Groups for all matters, including those related to the COVID-19 Policies. Organizations may be put on social probation or interim removal by the appropriate administrator while the conduct process is ongoing. COVID-19 COVID-19 Student Conduct Procedures COVID-19 FAQs Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Student Conduct & Community Standards Student Conduct & Community Standards Brown University Box 2014 Graduate Center E 42 Charlesfield St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2653 Fax: 401-863-1999 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat