Skip to main content Skip to main navigation PawPrints Menu Login Release Install MacOS Windows Linux Instructions Printer Map Policies Ask Us Baylor>PawPrints PawPrints Welcome to PawPrints, Baylor University's crowd-sourced student printing solution. Special thanks to the many departments that contribute their own printers, paper, toner, and time (from their OWN budgets) to make PawPrints possible. Students, staff, and faculty may print from any computer on the Baylor network. Install only 4 campus queues or simply email or upload documents to print. Release your documents from any device to any of the 120+ campus printers on our map. Each semester, users receive $28 of printing credit at no additional cost (good for 800 2-sided B&W prints). Additional pages are charged at a subsidized rate. Browse this site and login to look over all the features of PawPrints. NEWS May 13, 2022 - Database and server maintenance is complete. All systems are functional. May 12, 2022 - Summer default allowances have been deposited. Extra balances will be deposited to those with qualifying accounts soon after the 12th class day. Read our policy on quotas. February 3, 2022 - Extra allowances have been deposited for the spring for those with qualifying accounts. December 17, 2021 - Default allowances have been deposited for the spring. September 30, 2021 - Upgrades completed. All systems are functional. PawPrints Environmental Impact (Spring 2022) 24,593 sheets of paper equals... 6,968 ...light bulb hours. 110,668 ...KG of CO2 released. 0.31 ...total trees. View your personal impact report. Current Print Volume 8 jobs held in a queue 0 pages in the last 2 hours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Login Release Install MacOS Windows Linux Instructions Printer Map Policies Ask Us