Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Accounting, BSBA Gain Practical Experience Solving Complex Challenges Through Financial Analysis and Accounting Principles Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Accounting 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop a Foundation in Managing Financial Information for Individuals and Businesses The Accounting, BSBA program at UCF prepares you with the various knowledge and skills needed to succeed in today’s complex financial world. Throughout your coursework, you’ll gain hands-on experience in calculating and interpreting financial performance, articulating the various aspects of a financial statement, as well as assessing the integrity of financial information. This comprehensive curriculum offers insight into the different tasks and challenges you may experience in the profession. During your studies, you’ll be required to complete at least one internship which provides you with an opportunity to take what you’ve learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world settings. Upon graduation, gain employment in many different areas of business such as banking, financial planning, sales, production management, client management, product development, procurement and general management. Accounting graduates can also continue their education by applying for the Master of Science in Accounting (MSA) program and become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Please note that while licensure or certification may be available in this field of study, the Accounting, BSBA program does not lead to such licensure or certification upon graduation. However, the professional preparation you receive in this program may still assist you in such pursuits. Additionally, the accounting degree is not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Related Programs: Business Analytics, BSBA Business Economics, BSBA Economics, BS Finance, BSBA Highlights UCF was ranked as one of the Best Undergraduate Business Programs by U.S. News & World Report in 2021. The economics program at UCF is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The job outlook for accountants and auditors is projected to grow 4 percent through 2029. The median annual salary for accountants and auditors is $73K. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Cost Accounting I Learn about theory and practice of using accounting information for managerial planning, and control as well as in costing and pricing decisions. Accounting Analytics Develop the skill set needed to extract value from big data through advanced analytics and emerging technologies in an accounting, auditing and tax environment. Strategic Management Assume a strategic view of organizations and integrate and apply material learned in your business courses to modern organizational problems and opportunities. View All Accounting Courses You’ll Take Accounting Skills You’ll Learn Understand the concepts and mechanics of each financial statement and be able to articulate how information flows through to each of the statements. Calculate and interpret major indicators of financial performance and use this information for decision-making purposes. Demonstrate comprehension of technical auditing concepts. Gain first-hand experience in applying your analytical, critical-thinking and problem solving skills. Career Opportunities Accounting Clerk Bookkeeper Budget Analyst Forensic Accountant Financial Analyst Environmental Accountant College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Accounting (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The purpose of the Accounting B.S.B.A. degree is to prepare students to successfully gain admittance to our Accounting M.S.A. graduate degree program and become Certified Public Accountants (CPAs). Not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Admission Requirements Completion of the UCF General Education program and Gordon Rule, or an AA degree from a Florida College System or State University System institution, and completion of each Common Program Prerequisite course with a "C" or better. Completion of the following courses at UCF or at an AACSB accredited institution: QMB 3200, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, MAN 3025, and ACG 3131, with a GPA of at least 3.0, a grade of at least "B" in ACG 3131, and no grade below a "C". One course may be repeated one time in the next term of enrollment to meet these requirements. Completion of GEB 3006 See Common Program Prerequisites. A student's academic catalog year guarantees their graduation requirements, but not their admission requirements. All pre-majors are held to the current admission standards. This applies to both native and transfer students. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Accounting must meet admission requirements for the major. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 60 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. For students seeking a double major within the College of Business, a maximum of 6 hours of Required Courses for the Major or Restricted Electives may count towards another business major. A maximum of 6 hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Students in the Accounting major must maintain a 2.75 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all 3000 level or higher Accounting or Tax courses and a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/ or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term of enrollment, the student will be dismissed as an Accounting major and/or College of Business student. A student who is dismissed may seek consideration for re-admittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students must earn a "B" or higher in ACG 3131. In addition, only grades of "C" or higher transfer into the program and students must earn a minimum of "C" or higher in all business courses. This includes all courses under requirements Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Core Requirements: Advanced Level (Primary Core, Secondary Core and Required Courses for Major), Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 51 Total Credits No Rules Primary Core 15 Total Credits Complete the following: ACG3131 - Intermediate Financial Accounting I (3) FIN3403 - Business Finance (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) QMB3200 - Quantitative Business Tools II (3) Secondary Core 15 Total Credits Complete the following: GEB3006 - Introduction to Career Development and Financial Plannings (3) GEB3005 - Career Search Strategy (1) BUL3130 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) MAR3203 - Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) GEB4223 - Business Interviewing Techniques (1) GEB4004 - Executing Your Career Plan (1) QMB3602 - Business Research for Decision Making (3) Required courses for major 21 Total Credits Complete the following: ACG3141 - Intermediate Financial Accounting II (3) ACG3361 - Cost Accounting I (3) ACG4401C - Accounting Information Systems (3) ACG4651 - Auditing (3) ACG4803 - Advanced Issues in Financial Accounting (3) TAX4001 - Taxation of Business Entities and Transactions (3) ACG4840 - Accounting Analytics (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Business Electives Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Choose any two upper level business courses Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Admitted to a Business major, senior standing, and completion of MAN 3025, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, QMB 3200, and ACG 3173 or ACG 3131 are required to register for MAN 4720. Complete the following: MAN4720 - Strategic Management (3) Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida