Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Public Policy Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Public Policy Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Public Policy Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Public Policy Enhance your credentials and your competitiveness in the job market across a broad range of fields with the Graduate Certificate in Public Policy in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. With this 12-credit graduate certificate, you will gain a broad understanding of public policy while preparing for a career in academic, government and nonprofit sectors. Public policy plays a key role in virtually every aspect of social life. Learn the rationale for government intervention and develop a keen understanding of the political and institutional forces that shape policy at the local, state and federal levels. With the Public Policy Graduate Certificate, you will build a solid foundation in the concepts, knowledge and tools of public policymaking, including analysis, evaluation and implementation. Acquire the key analytic tools to evaluate policy proposals and determine whether public policy programs are having their intended impacts on society. All credits earned in the graduate certificate program with a 3.0 or better may count toward the Master of Public Policy program. Program Format & Curriculum Classes for the Graduate Certificate in Public Policy are held in the evening to accommodate working professionals. Students have the option of completing the certificate entirely online or in person at Temple University Center City campus. Students can be enrolled full or part time and have two years to complete the program. The following four courses are required. Community Based Program Evaluation Economic Decisions and Public Policy Policy Analysis The Policy-Making Process Students must pass all courses and maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0 to earn the certificate. Learn more about the coursework for the Public Policy Certificate (Graduate). Careers The Graduate Certificate in Public Policy is intended for graduate students who wish to better prepare themselves for jobs in the public and nonprofit sectors as well as academia. Public policy professionals work on a variety of important and challenging issues that include the following. Access to affordable healthcare Climate change Control of epidemics Homeland security Immigration Income inequality Reproductive rights Unemployment and underemployment Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. For online classes in the Public Policy Certificate (Graduate) program, all students are eligible for the in-state rate. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Contact the following staff member with questions related to advising. Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Master of Public Policy program. Phone: 214-204-7817 Email: samantha.apgar@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Graduate Certificate in Public Policy, contact the following staff members. Gary Mucciaroni is the director of the Master of Public Policy program. Phone: 215-204-6195 Email: mpp@temple.edu Samantha Apgar is the associate director of the Master of Public Policy program. Phone: 215-204-7817 Email: samantha.apgar@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-PPOL-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Public Policy Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info