Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Graduate Student Life Menu Main Nav Graduate Student Life Contact Back Back Close About Overview Murray House Meet Our Staff Programs and Services Overview Doctoral Writing Group Graduate Leadership Program Grads Give Back GPS Grad Student Retreat New Graduate and Professional Student Orientation Grad Student Association Overview Senate and Student Organizations Campus Life Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Student Discounts Home Campus Life Student Discounts Student Discounts Boston is the ultimate college town and there are a surprising number of stores, restaurants, museums, sports events, etc. that offer amazing student discounts! Here are a few... Books and Media Boston Public Library: Get a free library card!: Just use your BC email address and follow the instructions here: https://bpl.org/ecard/ Borrow e-books, audiobooks and more for free via BC Overdrive * You can also recommend one item per day that you wish for BC to acquire BC Streaming Collections Digital subscription to the Boston Globe Digital subscription to the Wall Street Journal Digital subscription to the New York Times Technology Free Microsoft Office with BC email. Free Tableau Free two-day shipping with Amazon Prime for six months. Adobe student discounts. Apple Store Education Pricing Best Buy Student Discount Program Adorama Camera Store Student Educator and Discount Program Accessibility Tools Read & Write software Web Conferencing Other Software Tech and Equipment Loans: Laptops, chargers, headphones, and more are available to be checked out from many of the BC Libraries. Availability and selection of technology items vary depending on which library you plan to use. Transportation MBTA Student discounts note this list of MBTA accessibility services Logan Airport Shuttle student discounts ZipCar discounts Arts & Culture McMullen Museum of Art: This BC-affiliated museum is right off Commonwealth Avenue, has free parking, and wheel-chair accessible exhibits in-person as well as virtual walkthroughs and lectures that can be found here: https://www.bc.edu/sites/artmuseum/learn/from-home.html. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum: Undergraduate and Graduate students enter for free by pre-booking a date/time online at gardnermuseum.org/visit. Email the Office of Student Involvement at osi@bc.edu for the promo code to complete your booking (or call 617-552-3480). You'll be required to present your BC ID upon arrival of your visit. Jose Mateo Ballet Theatre hosts "Young Professionals" night on Thursday evenings. Students under the age of 35, are eligible for half-priced tickets ($21 each, instead of $42). Fitness Follow BC Recreation on Instagram for free, simple workout challenges See what Campus Recreation is currently offering, whether it’s aquatics, outdoor adventures, tennis or other activities Try Classpass to be able to try some new activity at a discount! Wellness-Blueprint offers a wide variety of exercise classes and a pay-what-you-can model; more details here Fen Tung offers a variety of virtual classes and asks students to pay $3-6 per class; more details here Retail Apple provides discounts on numerous electronics, including $200 off iPads and MacBooks and a free pair of Airpods to students with a valid student ID. You can also get discounts on Apple’s popular music subscription and access to Apple TV+ (free for the first six months, and then half price, $4.99 per month). Thursdays are “Student Days” at Goodwill, meaning 10% with a student ID ASOS offers 10% off with .edu email address Adidas offers 15% off and free shipping, online only MadeWell offers 15% to students and teachers online and in stores West Elm offers 15% off, in-person with a student ID Unidays offers a range of discounts with a student email address Sassoon Salon offers 20% with a student ID Monday-Thursday Moleskine notebooks are 15% for students! Check BostonBudget.com, Offers.com, Student Universe.com and StudentRate.com for more student discounts Many more locations offer student discounts, so just ask at check-out and keep your student ID on hand! Back To Top Back To Top Graduate Student Life The John Courtney Murray, S.J. House 292 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-1855 gsc@bc.edu About Programs Grad Student Association Campus Life Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College