Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Life at Penn / Community Involvement / Penn Resources & Facilities Open to the Public Penn Resources & Facilities Open to the Public A comprehensive list of campus facilities and activities that are open to all. Accommodations Campus Hotels The Hilton Inn at Penn and the Sheraton Philadelphia University City Hotel offer on-campus convenience for visitors. Cultural Resources Arthur Ross Gallery Serving as a rich cultural resource for students, scholars and the community, the Arthur Ross Gallery presents global art and artifacts through gallery exhibitions, scholarship and educational outreach. Institute of Contemporary Art The Institute of Contemporary Art believes in the power of art and artists to inform and inspire. The ICA is free for all to engage and connect with the art of our time. Kelly Writers House Founded in 1995 by a group of students, faculty, staff and alumni, the Kelly Writers House is a large Gothic cottage on Locust Walk that serves as a center for writers of all kinds from Penn and the Philadelphia region. Morris Arboretum The Morris Arboretum is a historic public garden and educational institution. A short drive or train ride from campus, the Arboretum hosts a full slate of programs that integrate science, art and the humanities. Penn Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology The Penn Museum advances understanding of the world's cultural heritage through its extensive research, collections, exhibitions, and educational programming. Wolf Humanities Center The Penn Humanities Forum promotes cultural conversation among artists, academics, and the general public that considers how the humanities are linked with many areas of inquiry in medicine, law, business, and the social sciences. WXPN 88.5 FM Listener-supported public radio from the University of Pennsylvania. Healthcare Penn Nursing in the Community Penn nurses deliver high-quality health services to seniors, neighbors and clinics throughout the region. Penn Dental Medicine Penn Dental provides compassionate, comprehensive dental care with dentists in every specialty. Look here for information about the Dental School Clinics, Penn Dental Network, and Faculty Practice Plan for faculty and staff. University of Pennsylvania Health System Penn Medicine’s central source for information, including physician directories, directions to facilities, online appointment scheduling, and health advice from one of America's best hospitals. OncoLink® The award-winning comprehensive online cancer resource from the Abramson Cancer Center at Penn. Sports and Recreation Penn Athletics Penn Athletics provides intercollegiate and recreational opportunities that enrich the Penn student experience, and makes athletic facilities and activities available to the entire campus community. Penn Ice Rink Penn's Ice Rink at the Class of 1923 Arena is open to the public for skating sessions, hockey games, lessons, and parties. The rink can be rented for private events year-round. Penn Relays Information about the nation's oldest and largest relay carnival, which routinely draws more than 100,000 spectators each year. Veterinary Care Matthew J. Ryan Veterinary Hospital Penn Vet's Ryan Hospital provides clinical services and round-the-clock emergency care for dogs, cats, and other domestic/companion animals. New Bolton Center Penn Vet’s large animal facility includes one of the world's biggest equine surgical facilities, a critical care center, a dairy, a laboratory for aquatic animal research, and one of Pennsylvania's three animal diagnostic laboratories. Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top