Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Academic Life Study Abroad Study Abroad Experience all the world has to offer – follow your curiosity, expand your community and immerse yourself in a rich learning experience hundreds of miles or more from home. When you travel the globe you’ll see, learn, live and connect as part of an academic and personal exploration you’ll remember for the rest of your life. Quick Links Program Types Funding Your Experience Search Programs Play Youtube Video Experience Italy Join a unique living-learning community at Georgetown’s beautiful villa just outside of Florence, Italy, or live with a host family. You’ll choose classes such as the Machiavelli Seminar or Cultures of Italian Migration. Watch Alexa as she takes us to her theology class. Georgetown’s Villa Le Balze 57 Countries Host Georgetown students 1,021 Undergraduates Studied abroad in the 2017-2018 academic year 213 Programs Available to undergraduates The Office of Global Education The Office of Global Education (OGE) will guide your study-abroad journey from start to finish. Meet with experienced global education advisors for everything from finances to safety tips to sights and sounds you won’t want to miss. Learn more about OGE A Testimonial “We should all strive to thoroughly consider our involvement in any community. Are we bringing a skill to the table? Are we understanding the very small role we play in making our communities, nations and world a better place?” Casey’s Story Play Youtube Video McCourt in Costa Rica Challenge yourself to open your eyes and mind, and find new ways of thinking about intercultural understanding. It’s an enriching learning experience that happens as much outside as inside the classroom. McCourt Policy in Practice Connecting Globally More Global News Med Student Uses Research Requirement to Investigate Hypertension in Zimbabwe Luce Scholar Hopes to Create Equitable Education, Understanding Challenges in Asia Adam Barton (C’16), one of only 18 selected Luce Scholars this year, is conducting research on how to “transform education so that all learners can thrive in this era of… Global Health Major Spends Senior Research Practicum at WHO Office in India Sara Rotenberg (NHS’20) is a senior global health major at the School of Nursing & Health Studies. This semester, she is completing the 12-credit research practicum abroad, a signature feature… Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog