Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Activities Office Spring Weekend Student Activities Office Spring Weekend SAVE THE DATES: Spring Weekend 2022 (April 28 - May 1st) The Student Activities Office is excited to share the schedule of events for Spring Weekend 2022! You can view the schedule by following the link here. Information about individual events will be forthcoming and will be sent out this week and next week. Please reach out to Matt Branch at [email protected] if you have any questions. Ticketing Information: On Monday, April 25th at 8:00 am, 3000 tickets will be available to Brown students. Each student can reserve one ticket per day. The Spring Weekend concerts are free but tickets are required and we will likely hit capacity, so reserving is a must! On Wednesday, April 27th at 2:00 pm, if the weather call is made that we will have the concert outdoors, an additional 2500 tickets per day will go on sale. Any Brown students who did not reserve their tickets on Monday will have the opportunity to reserve one ticket per show. Tickets will be available until we reach capacity. Remember, tickets are non-refundable, non-transferable, and only open to Brown students. Tickets are limited to current Brown students only and are non-transferable. A physical Brown ID (no copies or photos) is required for entry. The name on your ticket must match your ID. How to reserve tickets: Reserve tickets on the Brown Ticketing website here: https://tickets.brown.edu/springweekend Go to the link above Login via the Shibboleth portal Add a ticket from each date to your cart if you plan on going to both dates (just add one of the days if you are only planning to attend one) Proceed to checkout! Important: Prior to tickets going on sale, please be logged in to your Brown account before attempting to purchase Spring Weekend tickets. You will be required to log in with Brown credentials so make sure to test your access before Monday Morning! Text #SPRING22 to 1-855-799-2180 to receive messages and updates about Spring Weekend. This is a new service we're trying for Spring Weekend 2022 and messages will begin on 4/24. Information on 4/45 Ticketing issue: Due to a higher than anticipated volume of traffic to the Ticketing website on Monday at 8am, the servers reached capacity resulting in error messages for many users. Our vendor was able to add additional server capacity and we believe the issue was resolved. Should we release more tickets on Wednesday we are confident that the additional server capacity will be more than sufficient to handle the volume of traffic and do not anticipate any issues. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your patience. Please reach out to [email protected] if you have any questions. Related Files 2022 Spring Weekend Schedule (10) (1).pdf Home About Spring Weekend Policies for Student Groups Student Group Resources Hazing Prevention Leadership Awards Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center News Print this Page Share this Page Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center (Faunce House) Brown University Box 1930 75 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2341 Fax 401-863-1155 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Links Brown Outdoor Leadership Training Brown Student Agencies Liber Brunensis (Yearbook) Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Undergraduate Council of Students Undergraduate Orientation Resources 25Live Space Reservation Brown Space Reservation Catering Menus Dignitary Notification Form Event Support Services Media Services Request Form