Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Professional & Scientific Council Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Upcoming Events Contact Us News About Us Council Members 2021-22 Strategic Initiatives of Professional and Scientific Council Committees Awards Communications Compensation and Benefits Equity and Inclusion Executive Peer Advocacy Policies and Procedures Professional Development Representation Constitution and Bylaws Newsletter Archive Meetings Employee Resources Professional Development Seminar Series Professional Development Conference Awards Highlighting ISU Staff P&S Awards Summary CYtation and Woodin CYtation Awards CYtation Team Award Outstanding New P&S Councilor CYtation Award 2021 CYtation Recipients CYtation Award Recipient Archive June 2 / General Meeting and Committee Meetings / Garden Room / Reiman Gardens 1 June 2 / General Meeting and Committee Meetings / Garden Room / Reiman Gardens 2 bor 3 Strategic Professional and Scientific Council The Iowa State University Professional and Scientific Council serves as a resource and an advocate for P&S employees. The Professional and Scientific Council is a representative body elected by, and responsible to, P&S employees at Iowa State University. The council identifies the needs of its constituents, provides information and advice in response to those needs, and recommends policies and procedures to the administration that benefit P&S employees and assist in fulfilling the mission of Iowa State University. The Professional and Scientific Council defines shared governance as a collaborative decision-making process that is inclusive of University administration, faculty, staff, and students which requires all parties to work together to advance the mission and achieve the strategic goals of Iowa State University. Council News and Updates Professional and Scientific Council President Chris Johnsen's statement to Board of Regents Apr 12, 2022 President Chris Johnsen's full statement to the Board of Regents can be found here. Peer Expert Community Committee Mar 14, 2022 The Professional and Scientific Council will have a new Committee. It is Peer Expert Community Committee. This new Committee will be Chaired by Sara Parris. Please contact Sara Parris with any questions or concerns on this developing ad-hoc Committee. In Sara's own words: I am very excited to share with you an idea I had several years ago that is now, finally, coming to fruition. Congratulations to the 2022-2023 Elected Council Officers Mar 04, 2022 Patrick Wall elected as President-Elect Sarah Larkin elected as Vice President for University Community Relations Marlene Jacks elected as Vice President for Equity and Inclusion Simplified Parliamentary Procedure Feb 25, 2022 · Sheryl Rippke This publication explains a set of well proven parliamentary procedures and rules designed to move business along in a meeting while maintaining order and controlling the communications process. Perfect for a new Councilor! Available at the Extension Store. Council Events June General Council Meeting Thu, Jun 2, 2022 · 2:10 pm to 4:00 pm The June general meeting of Professional and Scientific Council will be held in-person in the Garden Room, Reiman Gardens. This meeting will be open to P&S Council members only. Seminar Series Event - Stroll Into Summer: Well-Being Wherever You Are Mon, Jun 13, 2022 · 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm Mindfulness practices to support the well-being of individuals and groups. This event will be in-person only. Meet in Memorial Union Room 3580. Weather permitting, this session will include an experiential component outdoors. To ensure there are enough printed guides for everyone who is attending, please register by June 10. Professional & Scientific Council pands-exec@iastate.edu Facebook Twitter Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information