Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Biomedical Sciences (PhD) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Doctorate College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Biomedical Sciences PhD program is an interdisciplinary program that combines biological and physical science. This program is intended to educate students in independent research and team collaboration within the field. Request Information View Full Description Program Tracks/Options MD/PhD Track Application Deadlines Domestic International Fall January 1 Fall January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Anatomy Professor Bacteriology Professor Bacteriology Technician Biochemistry Technician Biology Laboratory Assistant Botany Professor Cancer Researcher Clinical Pharmacologist Embryology Professor Histologist Immunochemist Industrial Pharmacist Marine Fisheries Technician Medical Health Researcher Medical Research Scientist Microbiology Technician Neuroscientist Serologist Toxicologist Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Doctorates Biomedical Sciences (PhD) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Biomedical Sciences (PhD) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Biomedical Sciences PhD program is an interdisciplinary program that combines biological and physical science. This program is intended to educate students in independent research and team collaboration within the field. Program Prerequisites Applicants entering the program with regular status are expected to have completed course work required for a bachelor's degree in chemistry, cell biology, biochemistry, biophysics, genetics, molecular biology or microbiology. Degree Requirements Required Courses 23 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: BSC6432 - Biomedical Sciences I (5) BSC6433 - Biomedical Sciences II (5) BSC6431 - Practice of Biomedical Sciences (3) IDS6694 - Experimental Design and Analysis in Biomedical Sciences (2) Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: IDS 7690 - Frontiers in Biomedical Sciences 1 Credit Hours (four semesters, 1 credit hour each semester) Earn at least 4 credits from the following types of courses: IDS 7692L - Experiments in Biomedical Sciences (Lab Rotation: 3 credits/first semester, 1 credit/2nd semester) Elective Courses 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 12 credits from the following: BSC5418 - Tissue Engineering (3) BSC5436 - Biomedical Informatics : Structure Analysis (3) BSC6407C - Laboratory Methods in Molecular Biology (3) CAP5510 - Bioinformatics (3) CHM5305 - Bioconjugate Chemistry (3) CHM5450 - Polymer Chemistry (3) CHM5451C - Techniques in Polymer Science (3) CHS6251 - Applied Organic Synthesis (3) CHS6535 - Forensic Molecular Biology (3) CHS6535L - Forensic Analysis of Biological Materials (3) CHS6536 - Population Genetics and Genetic Data (3) CHS6536 - Population Genetics and Genetic Data (3) IDS5127 - Foundation of Bio-Imaging Science (3) MCB5205 - Infectious Processes (3) MCB5208 - Cellular Microbiology: Host-Pathogen Interactions (3) MCB5209 - Microbial Stress Response (3) MCB5225 - Molecular Biology of Disease (3) MCB5505 - Molecular Virology (3) MCB5722C - Methods in Biotechnology (4) MCB5932 - Current Topics in Molecular Biology (1 - 99) MCB5415 - Cellular Metabolism (3) MCB6226 - Molecular Diagnostics (3) MCB6417C - Microbial Metabolism (3) PCB5025 - Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology (3) PCB5235 - Molecular Immunology (3) PCB5236 - Cancer Biology (3) PCB5238 - Immunobiology (3) PCB5265 - Stem Cell Biology (3) PCB5275 - Signal Transduction Mechanics (3) PCB5527 - Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (3) PCB5596 - Biomedical Informatics: Sequence Analysis (3) PCB5815 - Molecular Aspects of Obesity, Diabetes and Metabolism (3) PCB5838 - Cellular and Molecular Basis of Brain Functions (3) PCB6528 - Plant Molecular Biology (3) PCB6595 - Regulation of Gene Expression (3) PCB6677 - Molecular Evolution and Phylogenetics (3) ZOO5748C - Clinical Neuroanatomy (5) At least 12 hours of electives must be taken from the above list. Any electives not on this list must be approved by the Graduate Committee before being counted toward degree credit requirements. Directed research, doctoral research, and dissertation research may be used to satisfy requirements beyond the first 12 hours, with approval from the program director. Unrestricted Electives 22 Total Credits Earn at least 22 credits from the following types of courses: Students should take 22 credit hours of electives, directed research, doctoral research or dissertation research, in consultation with their adviser. Dissertation 15 Total Credits Earn at least 15 credits from the following types of courses: IDS 7980 - Dissertation Research Cumulative/Qualifying Examinations 0 Total Credits Cumulative examinations taken during the second year will determine if students should continue with their doctoral studies. Exams will be overseen by a cumulative exam committee. Each exam will consist of questions set by different faculty members. Questions will deal with data interpretation from the current literature and the design of experiments to test a hypothesis. A student must satisfactorily answer cumulative examination questions, displaying a knowledge base consistent with continuation in the PhD program. Candidacy Examination 0 Total Credits Candidacy will consist of writing and orally defending a proposal outlining a novel research idea to the dissertation committee. The written proposal will be prepared independently, following NIH-style grant format, and must be approved by the dissertation committee (see Biomedical Sciences PhD Program Handbook for full description of Candidacy Exam requirements and procedures). After passing the candidacy examination and meeting other requirements as specified, the student can register for dissertation hours. Admission to Candidacy 0 Total Credits The following are required to be admitted to candidacy and enroll in dissertation hours: Successfully complete a minimum of 48 credit hours. Successful completion of all coursework, except for dissertation hours. Successful completion of candidacy examination. Successful defense of the written dissertation proposal. Successful completion of Academic Integrity requirements The dissertation advisory committee is formed, consisting of approved graduate faculty and graduate faculty scholars. Submittal of an approved program of study. Dissertation Defense 0 Total Credits The dissertation should be of significant scope and depth such that the work has made significant advances in the area of biomedical science. The Ph.D. dissertation research must generate sufficient quantity and quality data to support a minimum of two original manuscripts (first-authored by the student) in a mainstream journal in the field. One first-author original research article published or accepted for publication is required for pre-defense. In addition to meeting the pre-defense requirement for publication, a second manuscript must have been submitted and subjected to peer review before the defense. Upon completion and approval of the doctoral dissertation by all designated faculty and university offices, the student will make a formal presentation of the research findings in a seminar format to the dissertation committee and other university faculty and students. The candidate will answer questions and defend conclusions about the subject matter. Independent Learning 0 Total Credits The dissertation serves as the independent learning experience. Grand Total Credits: 72 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. Applicants entering the program with regular status are expected to have completed course work required for a bachelor's degree in chemistry, cell biology, biochemistry, biophysics, genetics, molecular biology or microbiology. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Official, competitive GRE score taken within the last five years. Three letters of recommendation. Statement of research interest and purpose, including a summary of relevant work or research experience. Résumé or CV. A personal or telephone interview. Admission is based on an overall assessment of the qualifications submitted and the interview. All admissions to graduate status are competitive and based on availability of faculty for sponsoring research. Application Deadlines Biomedical Sciences PhD *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 International Applicants Jan 1 Jan 1 The Fall 2022 application deadline has been extended to: January 15, 2022 - International Applicants February 1, 2022 - Domestic Applicants *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida