Skip to content Clemson University COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » close Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Research About CAFLS Research Forward Arrow About CAFLS Research Explore CAFLS Research & Scholarship Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Godley-Snell Award Strategic Plan Back Arrow Back Research and Education Centers Forward Arrow Research and Education Centers Overview of All RECs Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology And Forest Science Coastal Research & Education Center Edisto Research & Education Center Pee Dee Research & Education Center Piedmont Research & Education Center Sandhill Research & Education Center Back Arrow Back Centers & Institutes Forward Arrow Centers & Institutes Back Arrow Back Graduate Programs For Researchers (log-in req) Forward Arrow For Researchers (log-in req) Technical Contribution Information for Researchers Grant Support Services CAFLS Research Development Forward Arrow CAFLS Research Development Data Management Services How to Locate Funding using SPIN USDA Funding Request for Assistance CAFLS/PSA Submission Policy Back Arrow Back Federal Projects Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Research About CAFLS Research show submenu for About CAFLS Research Explore CAFLS Research & Scholarship Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Godley-Snell Award Strategic Plan Research and Education Centers show submenu for Research and Education Centers Overview of All RECs Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology And Forest Science Coastal Research & Education Center Edisto Research & Education Center Pee Dee Research & Education Center Piedmont Research & Education Center Sandhill Research & Education Center Centers & Institutes Graduate Programs For Researchers (log-in req) show submenu for For Researchers (log-in req) Technical Contribution Information for Researchers Grant Support Services CAFLS Research Development show submenu for CAFLS Research Development Data Management Services How to Locate Funding using SPIN USDA Funding Request for Assistance CAFLS/PSA Submission Policy Federal Projects Clemson Home CAFLS Research About CAFLS Research Current: Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors allow Clemson to attract and support eminent scholars of international reputation who enhance the quality of the University’s teaching, research and service activities. They initiate, encourage and support development of ideas and innovations, and they are teachers, mentors and role models for their students and colleagues. The Endowed Chairs and Titled Professors group meets typically once a month during the regular semesters with members of the upper administration to discuss issues of interest to both, to provide a sounding board to the administrators, and to help them elevate the reputation of the University. The group strongly believes in excellence in scholarship, teaching and research. James (Jim) Anderson James C. Kennedy Endowed Chair of Waterfowl and Wetland Ecology The James Kennedy Waterfowl and Wetlands Conservation Center leads in conserving the Atlantic wetland ecosystems through education, research and outreach. Headquartered at the Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology and Forest Science, the Kennedy Center is the first endowed waterfowl and wetlands conservation center along the 3,000-mile Atlantic Flyway stretching from the Canadian Maritimes to the Gulf of Mexico. A 30-year veteran researcher of wetland and wetland-dependent wildlife including waterfowl, Anderson joined Clemson in August 2021. His primary focus is on wetland-dependent wildlife, emphasizing waterfowl ecology and management and management of wetland impoundments. Within the wetlands and wetland-dependent wildlife arena, areas of specific interest include carrying capacity, climate change, habitat relations, sea-level rise, species ecology, STEM education, and restoration among others. Robert Fritz Baldwin Margaret H. Lloyd-SmartState™ Endowed Chair in Urban Ecology and Restoration One of the primary goals of the Margaret H. Lloyd endowment is to foster the economic growth of the state of South Carolina through the promotion of scientific advancement. By partnering with the South Carolina SmartState Initiative, Dr. Robert Baldwin, who has served as the Lloyd-SmartState™ Chair since 2015, is heading the Center for Urban Ecology and Restoration through his work with the Lloyd Project at Hardscramble. Dr. Baldwin and his team are planning to positively impact South Carolina's economic and environmental education standings through their research. A conservation biologist, Baldwin is engaged with systematic conservation planning, which is a spatial approach to allocate conservation resources to the most valuable parts of the landscape in the context of environmental and socio-economic change. Michael S. Caterino The John C. and Suzanne E. Morse Endowed Chair in Arthropod Biodiversity Caterino joined the Clemson faculty in March 2014 to begin leading a research program focused on mapping arthropod species diversity in the Southeast and understanding how it may affect the everyday lives of South Carolina citizens. Caterino is considered the world’s foremost expert in a group of beetles called Histeridae, of which there are numerous species in the southeastern U.S. The John C. and Suzanne E. Morse Endowed Chair in Arthropod Biodiversity was endowed by retired Clemson entomology professor John Morse and his wife, Suzanne. The Morses’ contributions have been matched 4-to-1 by the W.C. English Foundation, established in 1966 by Suzanne’s father. Kay Cooksey Cryovac Endowed Chair in Packaging Science Cooksey joined the faculty at Clemson University in October 1998 after working at the University of Wisconsin-Stout for more than five years. Dr. Cooksey was a faculty intern at Dupont Packaging and Industrial Polymers Division and had the honor of receiving the Reister-Davis Lifetime Achievement Award from the Food Packaging Division of the Institute of Food Technologists in 2010. She was named the Cryovac Endowed Chair in Packaging Science in 2006, becoming the third person to hold the prestigious post. Her research focuses on food and packaging interactions and includes active packaging (specifically antimicrobial), biopolymer packaging and shelf life studies and sustainable packaging. Susan Kay Duckett Ernest L. Corley Jr. Trustees Chair in the Department of Animal and Veterinary Sciences Duckett held faculty positions at the University of Idaho and University of Georgia prior to her appointment at Clemson University in 2006. Dr. Duckett’s research integrates ruminant nutrition and meat science to alter lipid metabolism, fatty acid composition and palatability of animal products. The chair’s namesake, Ernest L. Corley, a 1949 dairy science graduate who became one of the top officials with the U.S. Department of Agriculture, always credited Clemson University with opening the door to his success. The Saluda native expressed his gratitude in 2000 by funding the Ernest L. Corley Jr. Trustees Chair in bovine livestock production. Stephen Kresovich Robert and Lois Coker Trustees Chair in Molecular Genetics Stephen Kresovich joined Clemson University in July 2013 as the Robert and Lois Coker Trustees Endowed Chair of Genetics in the Department of Genetics and Biochemistry and the Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences. Dr. Kresovich also serves as director of the Clemson Institute of Translational Genomics and the Advanced Plant Technology Program. Both initiatives integrate advances in genetics and genomics to solve problems in agriculture, the environment, and human health. Robert Coker served as a Clemson life trustee from 1960 until his death in 1987. Earlier that year, the Cokers created an endowment to fund the Robert and Lois Coker Trustees Chair in Molecular Genetics at Clemson. Through the Farm Bureau, they also established a graduate fellowship in agriculture at Clemson. Raghupathy Karthikeyan Charles Carter Newman Endowed Chair of Natural Resources Engineering Raghupathy Karthikeyan joined Clemson University in 2019 as the Charles Carter Newman Endowed Chair of Natural Resources Engineering. This position was established by an endowment from J. Wilson Newman and his wife, Clara, in honor of his father. The position calls for “an individual of outstanding accomplishment in the application of engineering principles to solving problems in the management of natural resources.” J. Drew Lanham Provost’s Distinguished Professor and Alumni Distinguished Professor of Forestry and Natural Resources Joseph Drew Lanham, professor of wildlife ecology in Clemson University’s Department of Forestry and Environmental Conservation, was named an Alumni Distinguished Professor in 2012. Lanham’s research interests include songbird ecology and conservation, integration of game and nongame wildlife management and the African-American land ethic and its role in natural resource conservation. In his teaching, research, and outreach roles, Lanham seeks to translate conservation science to make it relevant to others in ways that are evocative and understandable. Dr. Lanham is a widely published author and award-nominated poet, writing about his experiences as a birder, hunter and wild, wandering soul. His first solo work, The Home Place-Memoirs of a Colored Man’s Love Affair with Nature (Milkweed Editions, Minneapolis MN) will be published in 2016-17. CAFLS Research Copyright © Clemson University CAFLS Research | 104 Barre Hall, Clemson, SC 29634-0303 (864) 656-0681 | Page Update Request intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson