Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory CareerLAB BrownConnect LINK Award Program– Linking Internships and Knowledge BrownConnect LINK Award Program– Linking Internships and Knowledge Program Overview Summer Funding Dates & Deadlines Summer Funding Structure Eligible Candidates Eligible Research and Opportunities Ineligible Internships Program Criteria How to Apply Selection Process FAQS PROGRAM OVERVIEW BrownConnect SPRINT LINK Awards are part of the SPRINT family of programs, supporting experiential learning by providing students with access to funding for opportunities, both domestic and abroad. The SPRINT LINK program specifically supports unpaid and low-paid internships that are not affiliated with Brown University. The goal of all these experiential learning internships is to enable students to: Gain and apply new skills, and deepen existing ones Develop mentoring relationships; Engage in career exploration Contribute to positive outcomes for themselves and their communities SPRINT LINK Awards also provide financial support for students who may not be able to engage in such an opportunity without funding. The Brown SPRINT LINK Award Program is funded by Brown alums and parents, the Office of Financial Aid, as well as other Brown departments, and is administered by BrownConnect in the Center for Careers and Life After Brown. SUMMER FUNDING DATES & DEADLINES Mid-December Applications Opens in Ufunds February 9 | 12pm EST Deadline for: SPRINT UTRAs for Faculty Collaborations** Final Deadline Signature Awards for Employer Partner Programs Final Deadline SPRINT LINK Awards for international opportunities & internships already secured with early deadlines By March 31st Applicants will be notified (*Signature applicants may be notified earlier than other applicants) March 16 | 12pm EST Second Deadline for SPRINT LINK Awards for low- and unpaid internships By mid-April Applicants will be notified SUMMER FUNDING STRUCTURE Base Stipend for all students Domestic opportunities $2,500 International opportunities $3,000 Additional gap funding available for aided students for both domestic and international opportunities Gap Award for aided students with Parent Contribution/Responsibility of $15,001 and above +$2,000 (total $4,500-$5000) Gap Award for aided students with Parent Contributions/Responsibility of $15,000 and below +$3,000 (total $5,500-$6000) Summer Earnings Waiver Available to eligible students with University Scholarship funding once during their time at Brown Explanation of Gap Award The SPRINT financial model was developed in order to reach the College’s goal of supporting and enabling experiential learning opportunities for all students while maximizing the support provided to our aided students, particularly students with the highest demonstrated financial need. A student’s level of need is based on the calculated Parent Contribution, also referred to as Parent Responsibility, as determined by the Office of Financial Aid. The Parent Responsibility can be found in the Financial Aid Eligibility statement in Banner Self-Service (for the aid year prior to the summer experience). For additional information on the calculation that is used to determine Parent, Student, and overall Family Responsibility, see the Office of Financial Aid’s website. Students are not able to appeal the Parent Responsibility in order to increase their Gap Award funding. Aided students with a Parent Contribution/Responsibility of $15,000 or less (in the academic year prior to the summer experience) will receive a Summer Gap Award of $3,000 in addition to the base stipend of $2,500, for a total award amount of $5,500. Aided students with a Parent Contribution/Responsibility above $15,000 (in the academic year prior to the summer experience) will receive a Gap Award of $2,000 in addition to the base stipend of $2,500 for a total award amount of $4,500. Unaided students will not be eligible for a Gap Award in addition to the $2,500 base summer stipend. ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES Rising sophomores, juniors, and seniors, who are returning to Brown in September 2022, are eligible to apply. Graduating seniors (May '22) are not eligible. Students studying abroad Fall 2022 are eligible to apply, but must maintain an active, registered status at Brown. International students are eligible to apply, but may be subjected to tax withdrawals if their nation of citizenship does not have treaty benefits with the US—please see the Brown payroll office with questions about this. Students who have received summer funding from BrownConnect (LINK, UTRA, Signature Programs) in a previous summer will not receive priority consideration in the awards process, but are eligible to apply again. Priority will be given to students on Brown University Financial Aid, particularly our highest and high need students You can apply if you meet ALL of the following criteria: You are an active Brown undergraduate rising sophomore, junior, or senior You have applied for or secured an unpaid summer internship or one that pays $1,500 or less at a 501(c)(3) non profit including non-profit Universities; Government entity including public University; Non-governmental (NGO); arts and entertainment organization/apprenticeship; Science, Laboratory, or Other Research Opportunity. You are not currently on leave from Brown, and have an active, registered status. You are returning to study at Brown in the fall term following the proposed internships (Students studying abroad Fall 2022 are eligible to apply, but must maintain an active, registered status at Brown). You have not received other funding for the proposed internship (except payment of $1500 or less). You may not receive more than one source of funding from a Brown University department or entity for the proposed internship or for more than one full-time endeavor for the summer. Please note that BrownConnect may conduct an inquiry into the student conduct status of students who apply for an award to determine university standing status. ELIGIBLE INTERNSHIPS and RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES Definition According to NACE: Defined by NACE, “an internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting.” Unpaid or low-paying internship ($1,500 or less including stipend and/or housing, transportation, etc) at a 501(c)(3) non profit including non-profit Universities; Government entity including public University; Non-governmental (NGO); arts and entertainment organization/apprenticeship; Science, Laboratory, or Other Research Opportunity. Research opportunity with a non-Brown Professor; Research opportunities under LINK are only permitted at non-Brown affiliated institutions and with a non-Brown professor/sponsor. If you are unsure about an affiliation, please contact BrownConnect at [email protected] Internship/Research site: SPRINT will adhere to Brown’s COVID-19 Travel Policies and High-Risk and Restricted Travel Policies. To receive funding, eligible students must register international travel plans in TravelSafe [Sponsoring Department: Center for Careers and Life After Brown; Purpose of Travel: Internship]. Any undergraduate proposing travel to a High-Risk Travel destination must first complete a Safety Plan via TravelSafe and obtain approval from the International Travel Risk Assessment Committee (ITRAC) before making travel arrangements. No undergraduate will be permitted to travel to a Restricted Travel destination. Offered during the summer (after spring commencement) and completed by September 2, 2022 Supervised by a professional in the organization (e.g. a Brown faculty member or non-Brown sponsor) who agrees to guidelines. The opportunity is required to have a leader who will provide regular supervision and mentorship throughout the summer. The leader must have a permanent connection to the organization, such as a permanent employee of the organization or a board member. The leader cannot be another student. A member of the applicant’s family cannot run or have a substantial management interest in the host organization nor serve as the applicant’s sponsor directly or indirectly. BrownConnect will collect supervisor information to verify. If you have previously interned at the same site for which you are currently applying for funding, you must clearly explain how the responsibilities of this new internship position are significantly different from your previous position. Funding will not be granted for an internship that you have already done. INELIGIBLE INTERNSHIPS Definition According to NACE: Defined by NACE, “an internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting.” General summer camp counselors are not considered internship opportunities and will not be eligible for LINK funding. However, if the position demonstrates that it fits the criteria as defined by NACE and provides a robust experiential learning experience that bridges your academic goals with your professional goals, it will be considered. Experiences or opportunities that qualify as primarily volunteer oriented and/or service based opportunities and/or qualify for work study funding during the academic year Experiences that are project based in nature due to their affiliation with a Brown student club, organization, or class and/or experiences that are a continuation of work done with a Brown club or organization during the academic year Projects with an organization involved with the use, production, testing, or distribution of recreational or medical marijuana are not eligible (As the use of marijuana is illegal at the federal level and Brown University receives federal funds, we must comply with federal law.) Projects that fulfill the criteria of the Brown University UTRA (Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards) Program. LINK funding may not be used for research conducted on campus with a Brown professor, faculty, or staff member - please see UTRA Awards for this type of experience. Email [email protected] with any questions. A Brown University sponsored, funded, or affiliated research opportunity or internship, or an opportunity in a program that is supported by Brown University Internship at a Brown University department or office, or where a Brown faculty or staff member is the supervisor Pre-thesis research at Brown or elsewhere without significant experiential learning component Programs with fees to participate (funding cannot cover fees to study abroad or domestically, to participate in volunteer/service oriented projects, or for cultural exchange or other similar programs) Pay-to-participate international or domestic internship programs coordinated through third-party vendors will not be eligible for funding (programs in which you pay a fee to complete an internship). Tuition-based summer programs including those with an internship component Internships provided to students through placement organizations Organizations and programs with fundraising expectations or recommendations for their interns and employees Internship or project receiving Brown course credit (e.g. teaching requirement for teacher certification/education concentration; summer school course) Non-credit course or training program that does not contain any professional, experiential learning component; this includes programs where the main components include observing, shadowing, and attending lectures Students may not accept a BrownConnect SPRINT LINK award if they have received funding from a non-SPRINT Award for the same internship experience, or for another full-time summer experience LINK funding cannot be used to complete an internship in a location on the High-Risk Travel list without prior approval from the International Travel Risk Assessment Committee (ITRAC). No LINK funding can be used for any destination on the Restricted Travel list. Students should keep in mind that this list is constantly updated and the University may revoke funding at any time if a location presents heightened travel risks. If awarded LINK funding, students should expect to document their travel plans and complete a travel acknowledgement as part of the online registration process in TravelSafe. PROGRAM CRITERIA The internship must address specific learning goals that relate to enhancing academic skills developed at Brown and furthering career exploration such as: Exploring career options and understanding possible career pathways Developing knowledge specific to a career or work setting Expanding work specific skills relating to communication, teamwork, time management, interpersonal skills, goal setting, etc. Understanding cross-cultural, social awareness and the ability to work in diverse environments Applying academic skills and growing intellectually HOW TO APPLY Have your resume ready. We encourage you to engage with CareerLAB’s Resume Support Resources. Committee members will use the resume to evaluate how the proposed experience will fit with previous experiences and provide opportunity for future experiences. Please note: your resume is not being evaluated to determine the number or caliber of previous opportunities, but instead to provide a holistic view of you as an applicant. Impact remains our first priority and if you have not had a professional opportunity, this will not impact your candidacy. Be prepared to answer the following short answer questions within the application: Tell the SPRINT review committee why you are interested in this position or project and why the opportunity is important for you. The SPRINT Award Program seeks to enable student growth by supporting new experiences and skill development. How does this project utilize your current skills? How will this opportunity enable you to explore a new or interesting professional pathway and/or reach your professional, personal, or academic goals? (1-2 paragraphs), Optional - If you are collaborating with a (non-Brown) faculty member or interning at an organization or an industry where you have worked previously, please explain how this particular experience would be substantially different. (e.g., will you be taking on additional duties or deepening your research skills in some way)? Complete the UFUNDS Application. ALL documents must be uploaded with your application in UFUNDS. CareerLAB will not accept application materials directly. Selection committees will only review requested materials. Additional materials, such as letters of recommendation, transcripts, etc. will not be considered. No extensions or exceptions Applications are not considered on a rolling basis. 2022 Summer Award Amount: The base stipend for all SPRINT Awards is $2,500. In addition, students with Brown financial aid will automatically receive an additional Gap Award ranging from $2,000-$3,000 based on their Parent Contribution/Responsibility as determined by the Office of Financial Aid, for a total in the range of $4,500 - $6,000. SELECTION PROCESS All applications are reviewed by SPRINT committees. Priority will be given to students on Brown University Financial Aid. All awards are made based on the extent to which the experience is likely to integrate professional and academic development, the likelihood that the experience will increase awareness of the student's short or long term post college goals. Particular emphasis will be placed on the impact the experience will have on the student and its ability to allow them to explore a professional pathway. Students who have not had internship experiences in the past are strongly encouraged to apply. FAQS What do you define as an internship? According to the National Associate of Colleges and Employers (NACE): “An internship is a form of experiential learning that integrates knowledge and theory learned in the classroom with practical application and skills development in a professional setting.” Summer opportunities must be with one of the following: 501(c)(3) nonprofit including non-profit Universities; government entity including public Universities; non-governmental organization (NGO); arts and entertainment organization/apprenticeship,or Science, Laboratory, or Other Research Opportunity. How selective is awards funding? We expect to receive more applications than we can fund, so an award is not guaranteed. Because funding is limited, we will prioritize funding for students with demonstrated financial need (students who are receiving brown University aid) -- particularly students with the highest demonstrated financial need as defined by the University. What do I need to apply for a SPRINT LINK? The UFUNDS Application requests the following: Resume Information related to the proposed funding experience Short answer questions What is the selection process for the SPRINT? All applications are reviewed by SPRINT committees. Priority will be given to students on Brown University Financial Aid. Will there be open hours for questions? Yes. BrownConnect will be hosting open hours via Zoom. Please check the CareerLAB Events Calendar for further details. Who can I contact with other questions about SPRINT Awards? Any questions can be sent to the BrownConnect team at [email protected] I really need help finding an internship opportunity this summer. Can I talk to someone? CareerLAB counselors are available to meet via Zoom or phone. You can reserve time directly with a career counselor in Handshake. If you visit Handshake and can’t find a time that works for you, please email [email protected] and we will work to schedule a meeting with you. For all inquiries, contact: BrownConnect [email protected] or (401) 863-3326 Home Career Education Undergradate & Graduate Recruiting BrownConnect SPRINT LINK Signature Internship Programs FAQs Terms of the SPRINT Award CCG Winternships Credit & Summer Housing BrownConnect Website Alumni About Us Academic Year Hours: Monday-Friday: 8:30am -5pm Peer Career Advisor Hours: Learn more here. Email: PeerCareerAdvisors @brown.edu Doctoral Candidates: Email: [email protected] Reserve an interview room Follow us: Subscribe to our Recruiting E-Newsletter Contact us: Box 1907 | 167 Angell Street | Providence, RI 02912 | 401.863.3326 | [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media like us on facebook follow us on twitter see what we're up to on instagram subscribe to our youtube channel Get Started Find a job or internship!