About Get Involved Programs UOFC Back What do we do? Structure Members Board of Trustees Records Back Contact Us How to Join Sponsorship Elections Back Incubator Program YULAA Back About Funding About What do we do? Structure Members Board of Trustees Records Get Involved Contact Us How to Join Sponsorship Elections Programs Incubator Program YULAA UOFC About Funding Scroll WELCOME TO THE Yale College Council “Welcome!” The Yale College Council is Yale’s undergraduate student government. We work in three main areas: to propose policy changes to better Yale College, to organize and sponsor events, and to provide student services. Through these facets, we hope to deliver measurable results to the student body as we work to address student concerns and improve the undergraduate experience as a whole. This website provides an overview of how we are structured, what we do, and how you can get involved. Reach out at bayan.galal@yale.edu and/or ycc@yale.edu with further questions or to share any ideas you have! - Bayan Galal | YCC President 2021 - 2022 Current Projects Check back later to get involved with projects throughout the year! In the meantime, take a look at some of our past projects and reports: Past Projects Who’s on the YCC? CAMPUS COMMUNITY The YCC is made up of a diverse group of representatives from across the Yale undergraduate population. YCC members come from all backgrounds and study a variety of topics, but they are all invested in making Yale a better place. Check out some of our teams below: Featured Executive Board Senate Academic Life Policy Team Health and Safety Policy Team Community Affairs Policy Team Financial Accessibility Policy Team UOFC Team Business Team Communications Team Events Team Class Councils Want to Get Involved? contact the council Interested in grabbing a meal with a representative? Pitching a project idea? Fill out our contact form and we’ll be in touch! Contact form vOICE YOUR CONCERNS Use our anonymous feedback form to let us know how we’re doing. You can also directly email us at ycc@yale.edu! SUBMIT FEEDBACK join us for an event The YCC will be holding events for the student body throughout the year. Check out our calendar to keep updated! CALENDAR Feature About Divider Workshops & Demos Divider Yale College Council PO Box 202797, New Haven, CT 06520