Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Spectrum News 1 profiles Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program CTAP tailored for unemployed, underemployed workers By Kyle Shaner Email KyleEmail Kyle October 18, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like The University of Cincinnati’s Cincinnati Talent Acceleration Program is providing nontraditional students with training in tech and a path to higher education, Spectrum News 1 reported. CTAP is a 15-week adult education and training program that’s tailored for unemployed and underemployed workers who want to continue their education while also learning practical tech skills. “We know how important face-to-face education can be and we wanted to make sure that was a component. So, students take classes in the morning, from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday at the 1819 Innovation Center," said Janet Staderman, director of UC’s Office Professional and Continuing Education. "And then they take classes in the evening, online." CTAP will prepare students for a variety of entry-level computer and user-support specialist roles. Starting salaries for those positions range from $31,000 to $48,000. There are 32 students enrolled in the first CTAP session. UC plans to have approximately 200 students complete the program this year with the next session scheduled to start Dec. 8. Read the full story from Spectrum News 1. Featured image at top: Scot Paja, assistant vice president of partner success in UC's Office of Innovation, addresses students at the 1819 Innovation Hub. Photo/UC. Impact Lives Here The University of Cincinnati is leading public urban universities into a new era of innovation and impact. Our faculty, staff and students are saving lives, changing outcomes and bending the future in our city's direction. Next Lives Here. Tags School of Information Technology In The News Experience-based Learning School of Education Diversity School of Human Services Continuing Education Advancement and Transition Services School of Criminal Justice 1819 Innovation Hub Office of Innovation Related Stories Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Imaging Technology News: First FLASH proton therapy trial... May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's John Breneman, MD, spoke with Imaging Technology News about the completion of enrollment of the FAST-01 trial, the first FLASH proton therapy trial completed in humans. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top