Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Menu Close About Mission Programs Organizations Employment Opportunities Faculty Position - Tenured/Tenured-Track Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics History Directions Guest Travel Contact Us Diversity Academics Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Programs Research Research Activities Centers Undergraduate Research Conferences & Symposia People Professors Adjunct Faculty Professors of Practice Professors Emeriti Research Scientists Academic Professionals Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Staff Awards and Honors In Remembrance News & Events Upcoming Events Events Archive News Archive Video Archive 2020 Speaker Series Alumni Alumni News & Events Giving Stories Apply Contact Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus LinkedIn Flickr YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here Home » Research » Research Activities » Research Research Condensed Matter and Quantum Materials The Condensed Matter Physics (CMP) program is a critical component of research in the School. In terms of outside recognition, Ph.D. production, and research funding, the CMP group has played a major role in establishing the reputation of the School. It ranked No. 18 in the nation by U.S. News and Views. The core strength of the CMP group has been in fabricating and understanding unique nanostructured materials, whereas in recent years, the strength has shifted to “quantum materials” such as new generation epitaxial graphene, topological insulators and semimetals, and quantum spin liquids. The CMP has and still actively collaborates with many units within the Institute, including Chemistry & Biochemistry, Materials Science and Engineering, Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering, and Electrical and Computer Engineering. Faculty Members: Name Research Interests Research Website Dragomir Davidovic Exploration of physical properties that emerge in objects when their size approaches nanometer-scale Mesoscopic Physics & Low Temperature Physics... Mesoscopic and Nano Physics Laboratory Walter de Heer NPEG: Nano Patterned Epitaxial Graphene, Nanoclusters in Beams Epitaxial Graphene Lab Glen Evenbly My research is focused on the development of novel theoretical and numerical tools for modelling quantum many-body systems. Tensor network... Research Website Phillip First Developing an understanding of solid-state systems at atomic length scales A primary goal of Professor First's research is to develop an... Research Group Home Page Zhigang Jiang Quantum transport and infrared optical properties of condensed matter systems, including graphene, topological insulators, Dirac/Weyl semimetals, and... Jiang Group Website Itamar Kimchi Theory of quantum matter: We use analytics and numerics to study entanglement in real quantum materials and designer quantum systems. Kimchi research group site Uzi Landman Surface and Materials Science, Solid State Physics, Nanoscience Birth date: May, 1944 in Tel Aviv, Israel Residence: USA Citizenship: USA... Martin Maldovan Thermal Energy and Mass Transport at the Nanoscale Metamaterials Physics of Photonic and Phononic Materials Research Group Website Martin Mourigal Condensed matter physics, quantum materials, frustrated and low-dimensional magnets, spin liquids, iron- and copper-based superconductors, magnetic... Group Website Colin V Parker Quantum simulation of strongly correlated electron systems using ultracold atoms. Atomic defects in solid state media. Parker Lab Homepage Michael Pustilnik Transport and correlations in low-dimensional quantum systems Carlos Sa de Melo Theoretical condensed matter and ultra-cold atomic and molecular physics: Superconductors, quantum magnets, superfluids and Bose-Einstein condensates... Carlos Silva The Silva group is interested in understanding how excited states are created and how they evolve in complex materials of interest in optoelectronics... Silva Research Group Website Other Research Areas Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter and Quantum Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Physics Resources Guest Travel Academics Current Courses Course Catalog Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Apply now! About the School Contact Information Administration Committees History Giving to the School School of Physics Resources Job Opportunities Research Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter & Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Undergraduate Research School of Physics Resources Other Resources Computer Support Information Security Policy On-campus Signage Room Request Safety Committees Staff: Who does what? School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology 837 State Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0430 Phone: (404) 894-5201 Fax: (404) 894-9958 Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology