COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search World Art Day: 15 little known facts about sculptures on your campus April 15, 2022 — Every day is a day to celebrate the art that enriches our lives. And in April – April 15 to be exact – we pay special tribute with World Art Day. Art at Wichita State University can be seen all over campus and is a vital part of WSU’s campus life. Henrion Hall renovations improve sculpture and foundry areas for art students Dec. 8, 2021 - The second phase of renovations is close to complete on Wichita State’s Henrion Hall, the 100-year-old building that houses WSU’s studio arts. This recent renovation affects the first-floor north side of the building, where the sculpture department conducts most of its casting processes. Updates include new ventilation and air conditioning, as well as improved accessibility and functionality of workspaces. 1,200 COVID tests later, Music Theatre Wichita stays open thanks to WSU's MDL Sept. 23, 2021 – The show must go on, and thanks to Wichita State’s Molecular Diagnostics Lab, Music Theatre Wichita has been able to keep its doors open to audiences. Art exhibition uses clothing as a catalyst for storytelling June 29, 2021 -- An opening reception for "From Lima to Wichita: Intercultural Dialogues in Clothing & Paint" will take place from 6–9 p.m. July 2, at ShiftSpace, WSU’s student-run gallery, as part of Wichita’s First Friday gallery crawl. From one student to another: What I learned making a short film January 20, 2021 — “Noel Live” follows Noel, a man with a mysterious case of short-term memory, who has lost everything. As he seeks to kill the man who took everything from him, he finds himself with a choice: forgiveness or revenge. Which will he choose? The film is told using reverse chronology and inspired by Christopher Nolan’s movie “Memento.” Wichita State's 125th birthday celebrated with a graphic novel November 23, 2020 - Jay Price, a history professor at Wichita State, is honoring Wichita State’s birthday by creating a graphic novel of Wichita State's history. New stadium calls on Wichita State artists to portray baseball's action Oct. 28, 2020 -- There are several artists with Wichita State University connections involved in the public art projects in and around the Riverfront Stadium, home of the Wichita Wind Surge minor-league professional team. Several of the public art projects are visible outside the stadium and more are scheduled for installation in the coming months. All of the artists are local or regional. Wichita State professor makes career in all things fiction Sept. 23, 2020 - Darren Defrain is the social professor of English and director of the writing program at Wichita State. Defrain has written novels, memoirs and essays, created a graphic novel, teaches on graphic novels/storytelling and is actively working on a graphic novel app. 'Luke the Longhorn' celebrates Kansas history in a unique way May 20, 2020 — Jay Price, director of the public history program at Wichita State University, decided to make a series of graphic novels to commemorate the trail." Ulrich boosts outreach efforts amid COVID-19 May 18, 2020 — COVID-19 might have forced Wichita State’s Ulrich Museum of Art to close its doors, but the museum has found new avenues to shine and thrive: an ambitious public art project and building the Ulrich’s online presence into a teaching and learning resource. Political science professor seeks to slay gerrymandering through research Feb. 20, 2020 -- Brian Amos, assistant professor of political science at Wichita state, has dedicated numerous papers and conferences to gerrymandering research. Alumna in the running for Grammy Music Educator Award Dec. 16, 2019 -- Courtney Powers, music director at South Philadelphia High School, is in the running for a Grammy of her own for her work in music education. She is currently one of 25 quarterfinalists for the award. Fringe on top: class contributes to downtown placemaking project Dec. 5, 2019 -- A class project brought color to the sky above Wichita — and helped one student land a job. WSU creates new School of Digital Arts Nov. 20, 2019 -- Two years after the successful launch of Wichita State University’s Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts program, the university has created the new School of Digital Arts. WSU Opera Theater to present the North American premiere of Holocaust opera Nov. 8, 2019 -- The Wichita State Opera Theater and the WSU Symphony Wind Ensemble will present the North American premiere of “The Path to Heaven” later this month. Showtimes are 7:30 p.m. Friday, Nov. 15, and at 2 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 17, in Miller Concert Hall, Duerksen Fine Arts Center. 1 2 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©