COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateInformation Assurance and Cybersecurity All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing Wichita State's graduate certificate in information assurance and cybersecurity is designed for IT professionals and graduate students. You'll gain a strong understanding of the fundamentals of information assurance and cybersecurity. And you'll acquire in-depth knowledge in areas such as security and privacy in network and internet systems, cyber-physical systems and critical infrastructure, Internet-of-Things, software systems and cloud computing. Learn how Information Assurance and Cybersecurity is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator WSU engineering students benefit from applied learning at NetApp, a Fortune 500 company with offices in Wichita. Curriculum The 12-credit-hour certificate comprises the following courses: Data Communication Networks Information Assurance and Security Foundations of Network Security Elective based on your interests View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program Students learn about cybersecurity first-hand There is a growing need for cybersecurity expertise in the Wichita area. To answer that call, the WSU Hub for Cybersecurity Education and Awareness (HCEA) was created on campus. As a student, you have the ability to work at the group and learn first-hand about cybersecurity. This direct involvement prepares you for a job delivering the highest level of cybersecurity and IT support. Similar Programs Computing (Master's) Computer Science (Master's) Electrical and Computer Engineering (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©