Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Resources For Faculty and Staff Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program The Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program at Counseling and Psychological Services is a one-year, full-time, paid opportunity for advanced clinical or counseling psychology students to specialize in college mental health upon completion of a Ph.D. or PsyD. Within a short-term psychodynamic treatment model, trainees conduct intake assessments and build an individual psychotherapy caseload, which includes both brief treatments and several longer-term therapy cases. Under ongoing supervision, disposition decisions are made regarding treatment options within the program and referrals to outside resources. Trainees present cases and attend year-long didactic and clinical seminars, as well as administrative and themed clinical meetings. Opportunities to work with psychologists, psychiatrists, and social workers with special experience in areas such as eating disorders, trauma, substance use, diversity, acculturation, sexual and gender identity concerns, and veterans’ concerns are available and encouraged. Electives are typically offered in Eating Disorders and Concerns; Trauma Support; and Group Therapy/Community Support/Outreach, among other potential electives responsive to the needs and interests of the population served. Applicants may indicate interest in any elective(s); expressed interest will neither commit an applicant nor guarantee placement. Note that participation in one or more electives does not require an additional time commitment. Many graduates of the training program go on to careers in college mental health at Columbia or elsewhere. Graduates interested in establishing a private practice have the opportunity, upon licensure, of joining the Columbia specific referral network through which students are referred to off-campus private practices. Contact Dr. Debra Domenech for more information about the postdoctoral fellowship training program. Expand all Collapse all Eating Disorder Concerns Elective In addition to broad exposure to all facets of college mental health, trainees serve on the Eating Disorder (ED) Multidisciplinary Treatment Team composed of psychologists, social workers, a psychiatrist, a nurse practitioner, a physician, and a nutritionist. The ED Team provides comprehensive care for students presenting with a range of eating concerns including individual psychotherapy, psychopharmacological evaluation and management, medical evaluations, nutrition rehabilitation, and consultation services to the larger university community. Trainees receive weekly individual supervision with an ED Specialist, attend weekly clinical team meetings, co-facilitate a support space, and conduct one dedicated intake each week with a student seeking treatment for their eating concern(s). Training is provided on the assessment and treatment of eating disorders, and specifically in assessing for an appropriate level of care in a college health setting. When clinically appropriate, trainees assist students in identifying and getting connected with services offering a higher level of care in the community and coordinate various outreach and educational on-campus activities related to eating concerns, weight management, nutrition, and body image. Trauma Support Elective In addition to broad exposure to all facets of college mental health, trainees serve on the CPS Trauma Support Team which provides survivors of recent and past trauma with individual psychotherapy, psychoeducational/support group spaces, psychopharmacological evaluation and management, and referrals for appropriate care on- and off-campus. The team collaborates with other units of Columbia Health and within the university as a whole to provide assistance with crisis intervention and coordination of care with relevant services and works especially closely with Columbia’s extensive Sexual Violence Response Program. Trainees receive weekly individual supervision from a psychologist with a strong background in trauma-informed treatment, attend weekly clinical conferences, co-facilitate a group for survivors, and typically conduct one dedicated intake each week for a student seeking trauma support. The fellow will gain an understanding of how to navigate trauma support and sexual and intimate partner violence within a university setting, learn about various trauma treatment models, and have the opportunity to present their cases and receive feedback from the Trauma Support Team. Group Therapy/Community Support/Outreach Elective This elective will, in addition to giving trainees broad exposure to all facets of college mental health, provide an opportunity to co-lead a variety of groups, participate in psychoeducational workshops, and help design and implement outreach events and community support gatherings. The trainee will receive supervision from a psychologist with a strong background in Group Therapy and gain a deeper understanding of group formation from recruitment to termination. Depending on student demand, and current service delivery arrangements, trainees may have the opportunity to co-lead confidential psychotherapy groups; mindfulness and meditation groups; groups that support students in their identities; workshops for couples and for international students; psychoeducational skills-based groups promoting everything from distress tolerance to sleep hygiene to more effective study strategies; among other options. How to Apply The position requires matriculation at an American Psychological Association-accredited clinical or counseling program with completion of a Ph.D. or PsyD. in clinical or counseling psychology prior to start date, (last week in August). We are accepting applications through April 30th, 2022. Please check back for updates. To apply, complete the online master application, attach a resume, and email the following to Debra Domenech, Ph.D., Counseling and Psychological Services at [email protected]: detailed letter of interest; separate statement indicating reasons for interest in a specialized track; updated curriculum vitae; three letters of reference; brief clinical writing sample, (de-identified case write-up or test report), and graduate school transcripts. Faculty & Staff Resources Columbia Health for Faculty and Staff Disability in the Workplace Faculty Guide for Disability Services Postdoctoral Fellowship Training Program Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close