Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation Faculty Awards 2022 Dean’s Awards 2021 Dean's Awards 2020 Dean's Awards New Faculty Academic Committees Open Faculty Positions Faculty Affairs Faculty Awards 2022 Dean’s Awards for Faculty Excellence Excellence in Community Engagement: Patricia Risica, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences and of Epidemiology Excellence in Mentoring in Public Health (two winners): Deborah Pearlman, Associate Professor of the Practice of Epidemiology Brandon Marshall, Associate Professor of Epidemiology Excellence in Research Collaboration: Jaclyn White Hughto, Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences and of Epidemiology Excellence in Classroom Teaching in Public Health: Alice Paul, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics Read more about the 2022 Dean's Awards Kaley Hayes May 2022: Kaley Hayes, assistant professor of health service, policy and practice, received a 2022 Salomon Award for "Leveraging new databases to understand medication use in the post-acute care setting among older adults with hip fracture." Read more Arman Oganisian May 2022: Arman Oganisian, assistant professor of biostatistics, received a 2022 Salomon Award for "Bayesian Machine Learning for Sequential Decision-Making with Incomplete Information." Read more Andrew Zullo May 2022: Andrew Zullo, assistant professor of health services, policy and practice, received a 2022 Brown Early Career Research Achievement Award Read more Carolina Hass-Koffler May 2022: Carolina Hass-Koffler, Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, is PI of a 2022 Brown Seed Award Read more Dean Ashish K. Jha Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, was honored with the Meeting the Moment in Public Health Award from Johnson & Johnson Research! America. Jha was recognized for “playing a key role in communicating public health information and developments to members of the public” and for his “masterful ability and tireless commitment to conveying key information about COVID-19 to a wide array of audiences.” Read more Brown faculty confers highest honor on Professor Vincent Mor May 2021: Vincent Mor, a longtime School of Public Health faculty member who is an accomplished scholar and educator, was awarded the Susan Colver Rosenberger Medal of Honor during the University’s 253rd Commencement ceremonies. Read more 2021 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence Excellence in Community Engagement: Amy Nunn, MS, ScD Dean’s Award for Excellence in Mentoring (two winners): Jennifer Merrill, PhD and Jennifer Nazareno, PhD, MSW Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research Collaboration: Sara Becker, PhD Excellence in Classroom Teaching: Shira Dunsiger, PhD Read more about the 2021 Dean's Awards Dean Jha named one "World's 50 Greatest Leaders" by Fortune magazine October 2021: Dr. Ashish K. Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, was named one of the "World's 50 Greatest Leaders" by Fortune magazine. The magazine noted: "Jha has a way, both in his public commentary and social media presence, of breaking down complicated public health issues in accessible language. His lack of a government affiliation has also helped him appear more trustworthy to skeptically inclined viewers." His Twitter threads expertly blend data, charts, and human impact." Read more Tracy Madsen August 2021: Dr. Tracy Madsen, an associate professor of epidemiology and emergency medicine, was selected by the National Academy of Medicine as the 2021 American Board of Emergency Medicine Fellow. During her two-year fellowship, Madsen will collaborate with eminent researchers, policy experts and clinicians from across the country and will help facilitate initiatives convened by the National Academies to provide nonpartisan and evidence-based guidance to policymakers, academic leaders, health care administrators and the public. Read more Patricia Cioe January 2021: Associate Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Patricia Cioe was named by the University of Rhode Island College of Nursing as one of 75 “luminaries” representing the best nurses and nurse scientists to have come through its nursing program over the years, excelling in professional practice, education, research and advancement of the college, and making lasting contributions to the profession of nursing. Read more Richard W. Besdine Dr. Richard W. Besdine, a professor of medicine and health services, policy and practice, received the Charles “Bud” Kahn, M.D., Lifetime Leadership Award from the Miriam Hospital Medical Staff Association for "outstanding leadership over a lifetime of service." Besdine retired from his position as director of the division of geriatrics and palliative medicine in the department of medicine, and chief of geriatrics, for Lifespan after 20 years of service. Read more Sara Becker 2020: Sara Becker, an associate professor of behavioral and social sciences and psychiatry and human behavior, won the 2020 G. Alan Marlatt Mid-Career Research Award from the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies for her program of rigorous research in the field of addiction psychology. Read more Amal Trivedi May 2021: Amal Trivedi is one of two faculty members recognized this year with the Graduate School's Faculty Award for Advising and Mentoring. Trivedi received numerous nominations from current and former students and faculty in the School of Public Health where he is Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice. Read more Lorin Crawford October 2020: The David and Lucile Packard Foundation has named Lorin Crawford, an assistant professor of biostatistics, a 2020 Packard Fellow for Science and Engineering. Read more 2020 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research Collaboration: Roee Gutman, PhD Dean’s Award for Excellence in Classroom Teaching: Jennifer Nazareno, PhD Dean’s Award for Excellence in Mentoring: Patricia M. Risica, DrPH, MPH Read more about the 2020 Dean's Awards Kali Thomas - Terrie Fox Wetle Rising Star Award May 2020: Professor Kali Thomas is the inaugural recipient of the Terrie Fox Wetle Rising Star Award in Health Services and Aging Research from the American Federation for Aging Research. Learn more about Dr. Thomas' work applying health services research to inform policies and practices that improve health and quality of life for older adults, and about her award's namesake, Professor Fox Wetle, founding dean of the School of Public Health. Read more Peter Monti Honored with Brown University Distinguished Research Achievement Award April 2020: Peter Monti received one of seven Research Achievement Awards from Brown University, in its annual program to honor exceptional scholars across a wide variety of disciplines. Read more Andrew Zullo Andrew Zullo, Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice has been named a Health in Aging Foundation New Investigator Awardee by the The American Geriatrics Society. These awards honor individuals whose original research reflects new insights in geriatrics and a commitment to the discipline’s role in academia. Read more 2019 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence Dean’s Award for Excellence in Classroom Teaching in Public Health: Jennifer Nazareno, PhD Dean’s Award for Excellence in Mentoring in Public Health (two winners): Amal Trivedi, MD, MPH; and David Williams, PhD Dean’s Award for Excellence in Research Collaboration in Public Health: Joseph Braun, MSPH, PhD Kali Thomas Dr. Thomas works to improve the quality of life of older adults needing long-term services and support. She leads projects related to care delivered in long-term care facilities and the role of home- and community-based services in preventing or postponing nursing home placement. Read more Constantine Gatsonis - Mosteller Statistician of the Year Constantine Gatsonis, Professor of Biostatistics, was honored by the Boston Chapter of the American Statistical Association as the Chapter’s 2019 Mosteller Statistician of the Year. This annual award recognizes an individual who has made exceptional contributions to the field of statistics and who have shown outstanding service to the statistical community. Lorin Crawford Lorin Crawford, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, will receive a $70,000 fellowship to support his research building deep learning algorithms able to detect the complex interactions between genes that contribute to diseases, such as cancer. READ MORE Dr. Megan Ranney Megan Ranney, MD, MPH, Associate Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, was honored with the 2018 Bruce M. Selya Award for Excellence in Research at the Lifespan Annual Meeting. Dr. Ranney has distinguished herself in the field of emergency mental health research and violent injury prevention, particularly firearm injury prevention. She is an expert in non-partisan public health research on firearm injury, and is among a group of physicians nationally bringing the matter to the public’s attention. Patricia Cioe Patricia Cioe, RN, NP, PhD, Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences, is a nurse practitioner and has been providing HIV primary care for over 20 years. READ MORE Dr. Josiah “Jody” Rich - 2018 class of the National Academy of Medicine Dr. Josiah “Jody” Rich, professor of medicine and epidemiology, has been elected to the 2018 class of National Academy of Medicine. Rich is one of 75 new members and 10 international members elected in this year’s class. Members are chosen for what is regarded as one of the highest honors in the fields of health and medicine based on their “outstanding professional achievements and commitment to service.” READ MORE Dr. Maureen Phipps - president-elect of the American Gynecological & Obstetrical Society Dr. Maureen Phipps, MD, MPH, chair and Chace-Joukowsky Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and assistant dean for Teaching and Research in Women’s Health at The Warren Alpert Medical School, professor of epidemiology at the Brown University School of Public Health, and chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island and Care New England Health System, has been named president-elect of the American Gynecological and Obstetrical Society. Her term will begin in September of 2019. READ MORE Peter Monti Dr. Peter M. Monti, the Donald G. Millar Distinguished Professor of Alcohol and Addiction Studies, professor of behavioral and social sciences, and director of the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies in the Brown University School of Public Health, has been awarded the 10th Annual Jack Mendelson Award from the National Institutes on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA). Each year, the award’s recipient is selected by NIAAA staff scientists and awarded to “an outstanding alcohol investigator whose clinical research makes a substantial contribution toward increasing our understanding of the effects of alcohol on health and well-being, and improving the diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of alcohol-related problems.” Dr. Monti will present the 2018 Mendelson lecture on Tuesday, October 23 at 1:30 pm, in the Lipsett Amphitheater, NIH Clinical Center, Bethesda, Maryland. Learn more Constantine Gatsonis The Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Zelen Leadership Award who by virtue of their outstanding leadership, has greatly impacted the theory and practice of statistical science. While individual accomplishments are considered, the most distinguishing criterion is the awardee’s contribution to the creation of an environment in which statistical science and its applications have flourished. Vincent Mor The Distinguished Research Achievement Award honors faculty members with exceptional records of nationally acclaimed research throughout their careers at Brown. Mor was cited for his sustained success over decades in advancing research on how the delivery of health care affects the well-being of frail and chronically ill people, particularly the elderly. He was also cited for his leadership in building an outstanding public health research program at Brown. Joseph Braun - Brown University Early Career Research Achievement Award Braun was highlighted for building a strong research program that has documented many important associations between prenatal and early life exposures to industrial toxicants, such as PFOA, and specific effects on human health including childhood adiposity and early termination of breastfeeding. He was also cited for providing excellent research mentorship. Dr. Nicole Alexander-Scott September 2018: Members of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASHO) are the chief health officials in each US state. The organization develops and guides public health policy in state-based public health practice with the ultimate goal of improving the nation’s health. Alexander-Scott will spend a year working with the current president to help steer the organization before assuming that role in September 2018. Akilah Dulin Keita This award recognizes outstanding scholarship published in the Journal of Community Practice. Articles are reviewed and selected by a committee comprised of ACOSA scholars based on contribution to the field, scholarly approach, and promotion of macro practice values. Chris Schmid - President of the Society for Research Synthesis Methodology Professor Schmid was elected President of the Society for Research Synthesis Methodology, a cross disciplinary society that supports and promotes the development and use of innovative and robust methods of research synthesis. Joseph Braun - Collaborative on Health and the Environment: 20 Pioneers under 40 in Environmental Public Health The Collaborative on Health and the Environment, a non-profit dedicated to educating people on how the environment impacts human health and well-being, recognized individuals whose work promises to drive environmental health science and advocacy in new directions. Braun researches whether environmental chemical exposures adversely affect infant and child health. Medeva Ghee - INSIGHT into Diversity’s 2017 Leaders in STEM Ghee, executive director of the Leadership Alliance, a Brown-based consortium that supports scholars from historically underrepresented groups pursuing careers in science, technology, engineering and math, was recognized for motivating and encouraging the next generation of young people to pursue STEM education and careers. Dr. Josiah Rich - 2017 Charles “Bud” Kahn, M.D. Lifetime Leadership Award An infectious disease specialist, Rich is also the director and cofounder of the Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights and a leader in efforts to combat opioid abuse. Joseph Garland, who nominated Rich for the Miriam Hospital award, noted his work providing care to prisoners saying he “has become a national leader in inmate health.” Adam Sullivan - 2017 Teaching with Technology Award Assistant Professor of Biostatistics and Biostatistics Master's Graduate Program Director, Adam Sullivan, was the recipient of Brown University's 2017 Teaching with Technology "Showcase Course Award" which was presented by Maud Mandel, Dean of the College, in May. With a record-breaking 20 nominations, Sullivan was recognized for three Biostatistics courses he made available online: PHP2511 Applied Regression Analysis, PHP2515 Fundamentals of Probability and Inference, and PHP2560 Statistical Programming in R. The Showcase Award is presented to instructors who transform the student learning experience by pushing the limits of teaching with technology. Linda Resnik - Paul B. Magnuson Award Linda Resnik, Professor of Health Services, Policy & Practice, has been awarded the Paul B. Magnuson Award for her work with Veterans who have experienced upper-limb loss. The Magnuson Award is the VA Rehabilitation Research and Development (VA RR&D) service's highest honor—it is given to acknowledge entrepreneurship, humanitarianism, and dedication in service to Veterans. Resnik is director of a focus area concentrated on restoring limb function for the VA RR&D Center for Neurorestoration and Neurotechnology (CfNN), a collaboration between PVAMC, Brown University, and affiliated hospitals whose researchers and clinicians are advancing neurotechnology to restore lost function. Simin Liu Simin Liu, Professor of Epidemiology, was awarded the American Heart Association's Functional Genomics and Translational Biology (FGTB) 2016 Mentoring Award. The FGTB Mentoring Award exemplifies an unprecedented commitment to moving the field of science forward. The winner of this yearly award must be an accomplished scientist that goes above and beyond to mentor well-trained and well-rounded individuals with a passion for science. Vince Mor The American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living (AHCA/NCAL) has named Vincent Mor, PhD, Florence Pirce Grant University Professor, Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, the 2016 recipient of the Mary K. Ousley Champion of Quality Award for his contributions to quality in the long term and post-acute care community. Professor Mor is also the recipient of the 2016 Robert W. Kleemeier Award. This distinguished honor is given annually to a Gerontological Society of America member in recognition for outstanding research in the field of gerontology. Click here to see the video. Susan Miller - APHA 2016 Lifetime Achievement Award The Aging and Public Health Section of the American Public Health Association has awarded Susan Miller, Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice (Research), the 2016 Lifetime Achievement Award. Brandon Marshall The Society for Epidemiologic Research has awarded Brandon Marshall, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, with the 2016 Brian MacMahon Early Career Epidemiologist Award. This award recognizes early career epidemiologists who have already made substantial contributions to the field and who are poised to become future leaders in epidemiology. Kali Thomas Kali Thomas, Assistant Professor of Health Services, Policy and Practice, has been named the 2016 recipient of the Carroll L. Estes Rising Star Award, by The Gerontological Society of America. This honor is given annually by the GSA’s Social Research, Policy and Practice Section to a member who has made significant contributions in social research, policy, and practice early in his or her career. Faculty Faculty Awards 2022 Dean’s Awards 2021 Dean's Awards 2020 Dean's Awards New Faculty Academic Committees Open Faculty Positions Faculty Affairs School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top