Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Studying at Princeton “I came to Princeton because I wanted a liberal arts education that would enable me to pursue multiple interests rigorously and deeply. I concentrated in physics, but the courses that most shaped my intellectual life were in constitutional law, political theory and comparative literature.” Christopher L. Eisgruber Princeton University President, Class of 1983 Undergraduate Experience Princeton's commitment to undergraduate education is profound. As a student, you benefit from the extraordinary resources of a world-class teaching and research university, and our low student-to-faculty ratio means you are able to develop close working relationships with professors who are leaders in their fields. Our curriculum emphasizes learning, creativity, innovation and collaboration with a program of liberal arts in the humanities, arts, social sciences, natural sciences and engineering. You will explore many disciplines and also develop a deep understanding in one area of concentration. From admission to commencement, the undergraduate academic experience is overseen by the Office of the Dean of the College, fostering your intellectual engagement and growth every step along the way. Learn more Graduate Student Experience As a graduate student at Princeton, you will become part of a community of scholars at one of the world's leading research universities. You will work closely with our distinguished faculty, who routinely push the frontiers of human knowledge with their research and scholarship. Our focus is on doctoral education, with a select number of master's degree programs. Ph.D. degrees across the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences and engineering emphasize original and independent scholarship. Our financial support will allow you to focus on your studies. And when you complete your degree, be assured that Princeton has demonstrated success in launching graduates into careers in academia, government, and the nonprofit and corporate sectors. Learn more Learning to Research and Write Developing Your Skills Independent research is a defining feature of a Princeton education. Most students finish their Princeton career doing original research as part of a major capstone project: an undergraduate senior thesis or a graduate dissertation. Here are some of the resources that help students get there. Freshman seminars for undergraduates provide the opportunity to work closely with a professor and a small group of students on a topic of special interest. Writing seminars prepare undergraduates for the rigors of academic research and writing. The Office of Undergraduate Research supports the undergraduate research experience as an integral part of a Princeton education, whether it be taking a research-based class, conducting research in the lab, pursuing independent research beyond campus, or completing your senior thesis. The Writing Center offers free one-on-one sessions with experienced writers trained to consult on projects in any discipline. Writing Center fellows can assist undergraduate and graduate students at any stage of the writing process, and the center also holds events like boot camps for senior thesis and dissertation writing. The McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning helps undergraduates learn advanced strategies to succeed in their academic work and improve their study skills. Programs for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars help them develop as scholars and teachers. Play video: Play Video: 'The Science of Mythbusters' Freshman Seminar Liberal Arts Princeton is unique in being a great research university with a profound commitment to the liberal arts. We provide a liberal arts education to all undergraduates, broadening their outlooks, and helping form their characters and values. We encourage students to explore ideas and methods across the humanities, arts, natural sciences, engineering and social sciences. When you graduate from Princeton, you will be prepared for whatever path and passions you choose in life. Humanities Sequence . In Princeton's yearlong humanities sequence — team-taught by professors from a variety of academic disciplines — undergraduates are immersed in texts that span 2,500 years of civilization. Learn More Integrated Science Curriculum . Integrated Science is a revolutionary introductory science curriculum intended for students considering a career in science. This year-long course prepares first-year students for a major in any of the core sciences while bridging meaningfully across other disciplines. Learn More Engineering Studies Our programs challenge students to both solve problems and understand which problems are important by emphasizing fundamental principles of engineering with their connections to society. Visit the School of Engineering and Applied Science Tour of the E-Quad More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice