Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityUndergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Apply Today Majors & Minors Visit Campus Life Tuition, Scholarships, Aid Contact Marquette.edu // Undergraduate Admissions // Visit // Visit Marquette Campus Tours and Open Houses Marquette's daily visits consist of a 30-minute presentation offered by an admission counselor and an hour-long tour of campus led by one of our student tour guides. BOOK YOUR VISIT! Transfer students, click here for additional visit options. Admitted Student Events Events for students admitted to Marquette University are available throughout the spring. To view the events and register, click the button below or log into your student status page. ADMITTED STUDENT EVENTS Virtual Visit Opportunities We are happy to offer a variety of opportunities to connect with Marquette from home. Click the button below to see our available virtual admissions presentations and options to connect virtually with the academic colleges. VIRTUAL VISIT OPPORTUNITIES Virtual Individual Admissions Appointments Admission counselors are available for both phone and video appointments. If you would like to schedule an appointment, please contact our Admissions Office at 414-288-7302. Group Visits We are accepting group visit requests for the 2021-2022 academic year. If you are interested in scheduling a student group for a campus tour, please fill out this request form. Note that submitting this form does not guarantee a visit, but we will attempt to accommodate the request. Visiting Marquette Visit Planning Resources Videos and Virtual Resources COVID-19 Visit Protocols Self-guided tour brochure Driving directions to campus Download campus map Hotel Recommendations VISIT Milwaukee Admissions Coronavirus Updates Take a Virtual Tour Contact us Application status Log into your admissions application account to verify the status of your application. Email - admissions@marquette.edu Phone - (414) 288-7302 Text - (414) 622-1888 Find Your Admission Counselor PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact admissions@marquette.edu. Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©