Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Theatre & Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Purchase Tickets Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Academic Programs Undergraduate BFA About the BFAPerformanceMusical TheatreDesign/Technical ProductionDanceDance Science Graduate MFA About the MFA MFA Curriculum Scholarships Application Process Take Action 2022-2023 Season Prospective Students Watch Me – Theatre Video UofM Ranked Among Top Dance Programs in the Nation Follow Us On Social Media InstagramFacebook Home Theatre & Dance Programs MFA Application Process Apply for MFA To the prospective student from John Yorke, Coordinator of Graduate Studies: Thank you for your interest in our graduate programs in the Department of Theatre & Dance! We are now accepting applications for the 2022-2023 academic year. The priority deadline is February 15, 2022. Applying to the MFA program is completed via an application to the Graduate School of the University of Memphis: Information about completing an application for admission can be found apply for graduate admissions. To bypass the information screen and go directly to the application click Graduate School admissions login. As part of the application you will be asked to select programs you wish to apply to. Be sure to select the MFA in theatre in order to be considered for our program. The application will also collect additional documentation that our department will use in evaluating your application. Be prepared to upload: A complete resume including all theatre work A statement of purpose detailing what you hope to achieve with an MFA in theatre and why you believe a graduate degree in this field is appropriate for you at this time. A current writing sample. You will also be asked questions about how you would like to interview if your are selected to move forward in the selection process. Applicants are encouraged to contact Kristin Shupe, Administrative Secretary. (901-678-2523) Kristin will coordinate contact with an appropriate faculty member once we receive your completed graduate application. Those invited to campus will have a one-hour interview with appropriate faculty in your area of interest, a tour of our facilities, and tickets to an evening performance of our current production. If you are not able to come to our campus, other opportunities for interviews with members of our faculty are available at various major conference and festivals around the country. A complete list will be available in August. If you are unable to travel, a formal telephone or skype interview will be scheduled for you with the appropriate faculty members. Decisions regarding graduate admissions and assignment of graduate scholarships will be made in the spring. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.