Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RCO Research Information Technology AAA Research Intelligence & Capacity Division of Veterinary Resources (DVR) Research Information Technology Patient Atlas REDCap Research Reporting System (RRS) StafaCT URIDE Velos eResearch Research Information Technology This specialized team supports the University of Miami community by providing systems, facilities and resources to facilitate the conduct and administration of research, including: Providing process improvement assistance for research administration and related areas Configuring research application infrastructure to support administrative operations Capturing process and information requirements from end-users and stakeholders Developing training materials and end-user training on deployed functionality Offering end-user support as needed Tracking outcomes to improvement efforts Maintaining quality assurance and data integrity Areas of Responsibility Strategic planning, involving technology to achieve research enterprise goals Process/Systems Analysis, Requirements Gathering, and Technology Evaluation Information management including optimization of the acquisition, storage, retrieval, and use of information Research and Clinical Informatics Software Development, Maintenance, Configuration, Documentation, QA, and Testing Research system-to-system interfacing, integration, and workflows End-user support HELP / CHECK INCIDENT STATUS Follow these steps to request help with Research Application Systems (i.e. IBISResearch, Velos, eProst (IRB system), UDisclose): E-mail your request to Research Information Technology at resinfo@med.miami.edu. Be specific about what you need. Include the Research Application System name followed by a brief explanation about your request in the email Subject line. If and when applicable, please include screenshots. Do not include passwords or other sensitive information. When your e-mail is received, a Service now incident is created to track and manage your request. An email wll be sent to you with the incident number. CONTACT Research Information Technology Supported Programs Open All Tabs PatientAtlas: Delve into patient data PatientAtlas is a self-service web application which allows clinicians and researchers to delve into patient data from a Population Health perspective using custom search criteria for data exploration and visualization. It combines data from UChart, Genomic Sequencing, Clinical Trails, US Census, and EPA. It also facilitates the analysis of aggregate patient data and the identification of patient cohorts for research purposes. Key Features Interactive visualization of patient cohorts by zip code Unprecedented access to unified data (updated weekly) Custom search functionality by various criteria Indication of patients who have provided Consent to Contact for studies Access To request access, please fill out the Clinical Data Request form by clicking here. Once you have logged in, click Order Items & Services, then Clinical Data Request under Data Extract or Reports. Once granted access, visit https://patientatlas.med.miami.edu to begin your data discovery. Cane ID credentials required. Get Help If you have any questions or need help, please contact UHealth Information Technology at uhealthdata@med.miami.edu. REDCap: Create online surveys and databases Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) is an application that allows users to build and manage online surveys and databases quickly and securely. Research Information Technology has a REDCap installation that is available for use at no cost to all University of Miami employees. All REDCap data is securely hosted by the University of Miami’s Information Technology Department. Research Information Technology administers project creation, user account management, and movement of projects from development to production. Authentication is performed via CaneID Authentication Service (CAS), the same institution-wide system used for a variety of applications such as myUM. Key Features Build online surveys and databases quickly and securely – Create and design your project rapidly using secure web authentication from your browser on your desktop computer or mobile device. No extra software is required. Fast and flexible – Conception to production-level survey/database in less than one day. Export data to common data analysis packages – Export your data to Microsoft Excel, PDF, SAS, Stata, R, or SPSS for analysis. Ad Hoc Reporting – Create custom queries for generating reports to view or download. Scheduling – Utilize a built-in project calendar and scheduling module for organizing your events and appointments. Easily manage a contact list of survey respondents or create a simple survey link – Build a list of email contacts, create custom email invitations, and track who responds, or you may also create a single survey link to email out or post on a website. Save your data collection instruments as a PDF to print – Generate a PDF version of your forms and surveys for printing to collect data offline. Advanced features – Auto-validation, calculated fields, file uploading, branching/skip logic, and survey stop actions. Which studies can be included in REDCap? Although the University of Miami’s REDCap application is a web-based, secure, and HIPAA compliant system, there are three categories of studies that are not REDCap eligible: Research that requires 21 CFR Part 11 compliance Research that involves an investigational new drug or device Research that is tracked for billing compliance If your project falls into any of the above, then Velos eResearch is the application you should use. Please see the Clinical Research Participant Enrollment and Tracking Policy (PDF) for more information. If your Research does not require 21 CFR Part 11 compliance or involve an investigational new drug or device, but requires tracking for billing compliance, you may still use REDCap as a supplemental system to Velos as long as all participants are registered in Velos for billing compliance purposes. Access REDCap is accessible to all University faculty, staff, and students at redcap.miami.edu. External users can also access REDCap if they have a CaneID. No access request form is required to log into this application. To begin using REDCap, follow these steps: Navigate to https://redcap.miami.edu to create a REDCap account and complete the requested information. Once you submit your request, you will receive an e-mail within a few minutes confirming your account was created. Log in to REDCap’s URL in step 1 to view the Training Resources and the Help & FAQ sections. Here you will find videos and interactive demos of sample projects. To request a new project navigate to the Request New Project tab. Complete and submit all required information. After requesting a new project, you will receive a short survey by e-mail within one business day that you will need to complete and submit in order to determine its eligibility to be implemented in REDCap. The survey will also include a document with information about the project’s users and their roles. Once the Research IT REDCap Administrator approves your project, you will receive e-mail confirmation of your project’s creation. You may now begin creating your survey and/or data collection instruments. When you are ready to start collecting real data, request to move your project from development to production in your study’s Project Setup page. The Research IT REDCap Administrator will then process your request. Collect data! Get Help For more in-depth information about REDCap, visit the official site. Please contact us at redcapadmin@med.miami.edu should you have any questions or comments. Research Reporting System (RRS) The Research Reporting System (RRS) contains various reports that are useful for researchers. Access Fill out and submit the RRS Access Form Login RRS LOGIN StafaCT: Manage processing and storage of blood, cellular therapy, tissue and organ products Overview StafaCT is used to manage the processing and storage of blood, cellular therapy, tissue and organ products and is governed by the International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISTB) and follows the ISBT 128 Standard. The objective of the ISBT 128 Standard is to provide: Unique global identification of blood, cellular therapy, tissue and organ products An internation reference table for product descriptions Label designs that are consistent worldwide Improvement in the quality, safety and traceability of the blood, cellular therapy, tissue, and organ products. Access to StafaCT & Training Please note that you must complete a StafaCT Access Request Form to log into this application. For more information on the StafaCT system please contact the Research IT support line at 305-243-2314 or email resinfo@med.miami.edu. STAFACT LOGIN URIDE: Big Data and Visualization The University Research Informatics Data Environment, also known as URIDE, is a big data and visualization service – integrating de-identified data from the UHealth UChart system – that provides investigators with a single, secure, exploratory environment for all clinically and scientifically derived data for research at the University of Miami. Medical School faculty already have access using their CaneID. To request access for your team email CTSIservices@med.miami.edu. URIDE LOGIN For more information, please click here. Velos eResearch: Web-based clinical research management Objective To provide clinical researchers and study staff with user-friendly technology infrastructure for managing studies, tracking subjects, and facilitating analysis, while maintaining the privacy and safety of participants. Access Please note that you must complete a Velos eResearch Access Request (Internet Explorer or Safari browsers only) to log into this application. For Chrome and other browser users, please right click the link above and select "Save link as..." to download the form onto your computer. VELOS ERESEARCH SECURE LOGIN →Velos eResearch Training Site What is Velos eResearch? Velos eResearch is a web-based clinical research management application that is designed specifically for investigators and their research teams. Velos eResearch supports processes for patient recruitment, patient scheduling, budgeting, invoicing, and milestone management, data safety monitoring, adverse event reporting, system integration, data collection and study execution. Velos eResearch allows all study-related information to be centralized and can be accessed from anywhere, anytime. Password-protected, the account is accessible only to authorized personnel. It is easy to use, reliable and completely secure. What are the advantages of Velos eResearch? Entirely web-based, accessible from any browser No new username and password, uses CaneID Coordinates multi-site studies Fully-auditable, supports 21 CFR Pt 11 compliance Focuses on investigators and their study teams, and incorporates their workflow Allows users to be productive in minutes or hours, not weeks or months Coordinates more trials simultaneously Increases protocol compliance Real-time monitoring across the organization Centralized access to all study-related information Efficient and secure communication Why should we use Velos eResearch? An integrated, network-based system provides investigators, study coordinators and clinical departments with improved research information capabilities. Velos eResearch was designed from the ground up to support both study administration and clinical data management in a single, integrated environment. For studies where we are the coordinating site, Velos eResearch is solving “the last mile” problem. Velos eResearch provides end-to-end electronic clinical trial data collection, where study data comes directly from source systems (e.g. labs, adverse events and medical records) at the sites, to the lead investigator and monitors, and on to the coordinating site. Such a system infrastructure is a major leap forward in clinical trial automation for both sponsors and investigators. Velos eResearch enables “direct data capture” as compared to “electronic data capture.” Key features that support our clinical research efforts Study Administration Protocol Management Patient Scheduling Regulatory Reporting Adverse Event Management and Reporting Data Safety Monitoring Budgets, Milestones, Invoices Invoice Payment Receipts and Processing Management of research organizations, personnel, and collaborators Clinical Data Management Patient Profiling Longitudinal patient level information collection and analysis Study Specific Data Collection and Analysis Workflow Configuration Integration with internal and third party information systems Training Opportunities For online training visit ULearn to complete these two mandatory modules:Introduction to Velos and Velos Part 11 User Training. For additional information contact resinfo@med.miami.edu. Resources Information to get started using using Velos eResearch: Velos eResearch Governing Policies (PDF) Velos eResearch Brochure (PDF) Velos FAQs (PDF) Helpful Links Velos Customer Corner Velos Inc. Website University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices