Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton University, Navy re-establish campus NROTC program by Michael Caddell, Office of Communications Feb. 5, 2014, noon Princeton University, Navy re-establish campus NROTC program Princeton University and the United States Navy will bring the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (NROTC) program back to Princeton later this year. Under the new crosstown agreement between Princeton, the Navy and Rutgers University, Princeton students may participate in the NROTC college-option program beginning in the fall of 2014. NROTC active duty Navy and Marine Corps instructors will lead and teach Princeton NROTC midshipmen on the Rutgers or Princeton campus, giving students the opportunity to earn a commission in the United States naval service. Students may apply for two or three-year scholarships as they become available. For high school students who have already applied to Princeton for the fall semester of 2014, applications for four-year NROTC scholarships are due Feb. 15. "We are very pleased to be able to provide our students with the opportunity to participate in Naval ROTC," said Princeton University President Christopher L. Eisgruber. "I have heard from many alumni about how important this program was in their lives. I am glad that this generation of students will have access to the kinds of training that the program provides and to the kinds of leadership positions for which it will prepare them." Initially established in 1945, the NROTC program at Princeton remained active until 1971. In addition to the NROTC program, Princeton has offered an Army ROTC program since 1919, which now includes cadets from The College of New Jersey, Rider University and Rowan University, and offers an Air Force ROTC program through a crosstown agreement with Rutgers University. Related Stories Ceremony heralds return of NROTC program to Princeton Read more Eisgruber receives Navy distinguished public service award Read more Princeton Class of 2018 graduates commissioned as U.S. Army and Navy officers Read more Twelve Princeton ROTC students commissioned as officers in U.S. Army, Navy and Marines Read more Princeton marks 100 years of ROTC on campus during Veterans Day program Read more After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army, Air Force and Navy officers Read more After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice