Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home SJSU Cares SJSU Cares SJSU CaresDivision of Student Affairs SJSU CaresDivision of Student Affairs Menu Get Assistance Get Assistance Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Housing Assistance Resources Resources iGrad Give Assistance Give Assistance Pantry Donation Guide About About What We Do Contact Us Data and Reports Request a Presentation FAQ Get Assistance Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Housing Assistance Resources iGrad Give Assistance Pantry Donation Guide About What We Do Contact Us Data and Reports Request a Presentation FAQ Get Assistance SJSU Cares is here to provide assistance when you need it most. We provide resources and services for SJSU students facing any kind of financial crisis. If you’re having trouble paying for food, housing or other bills, come to us to get the help you need. Request assistance now and we'll contact you to discuss next steps, eligibility, and possible campus and community resources. Request Assistance Now Food Assistance Are you finding yourself struggling to afford food while attending SJSU? You are not alone. The most recent Student Affairs survey found that approximately half of SJSU students are sometimes skipping meals due to cost. The good news is SJSU Cares has two great programs to help: Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Application Assistance These programs can help you get the food you need to focus on your education. Additionally, there are many other food resources available on campus and in the surrounding community. Housing Assistance As a student, you may find yourself unexpectedly homeless if you lack stable, regular and adequate housing. You may be homeless if you are living in shelters, parks, motels or cars, or temporarily couch-surfing with other people because you have nowhere else to go. If you are living in any of these situations because you are fleeing an abusive parent or guardian, you may be considered homeless even if they would provide support and a place to live. Or you may have an unexpected eviction, fire or other disaster where you are living. An SJSU student was fearing eviction as she was nearing the end of her degree. A crucial step in her Financial Aid process meant a potential delay in her loans being released. After contacting SJSU Cares and meeting with a case manager, she was able to coordinate with the Financial Aid Office. Her aid was released in time for her to pay her rent and remain securely housed in her apartment. The student successfully finished her semester and remains on track to finish her Bachelor's degree according to her education and career plans. Housing insecurity is a real issue in Silicon Valley. Please contact SJSU Cares if you are in an emergency situation! Medical Assistance Skipping an urgent medical or dental appointment because a lack of resources or insurance can lead to an unhealthy situation. Unexpected medical bills can seriously impact a student's monthly budget. A new graduate student who had dental work found out he owed more to the dentist's office due to a miscommunication about his dental insurance coverage. Worried about having enough money for rent and food, he met with the SJSU Cares case manager. Together they made sure that he was accessing every available financial aid opportunities. They also identified additional food resources the student could use, and a local non-profit the student could contact for help responding to his remaining debt. Contact SJSU Cares to find out what resources are available to help you pay for medical bills or insurance. We want to help you stay healthy! Emergency/Disaster Assistance Students share with us when they may have been a victim of a crime such as theft or burglary, or of a natural disaster like fire or flood, which has negatively affected their ability to succeed on campus. In the aftermath of the Fall 2017 California wildfires, numerous Spartans whose families lived in the affected areas reached out to SJSU Cares for assistance. The SJSU Cares case manager was able to connect one student with Spartan Shops and the campus bookstore to get replacements for required textbooks lost in the fire. The same and other students were able to receive emergency assistance funding to replace clothing and other items critical to attending and completing assignments for classes that semester. If you are facing any kind of emergency situation, contact SJSU Cares to find support and resources. Getting Down to Basics: Opening the doors to assistance Feeling overwhelmed with your ability to pay for housing, food, or other basic needs? Would you like a safe space to explore these life challenges? Join us to openly dialogue, identify additional solutions, and reduce stigma on accessing resources. Clothing Assistance Our campus has two main options for clothing asssitance. One for everyday wear & for career focused clothing. The Clothes Closet, operated by the Office of Sustainablity, is designed to help alleviate two major issues: massive waste generated annually by discarded clothing, and students, faculty and staff who are unable to meet their basic needs. Visit thier website to make an appointment. Let us know if you are unable to find an appointment and have a more immediate need. The Career Closet, operated by the Career Center, has a focus on providing students with free professional clothing and up to one full professional outfit per academic year. This can assist with interviews, job fairs, etc. Visit thier website to make an appointment. Get Assistance Spartan Food Pantry CalFresh Housing Assistance Resources iGrad Give Assistance Pantry Donation Guide About What We Do Contact Us Data and Reports Request a Presentation FAQ SJSU Cares PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Facebook PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Twitter PLACEHOLDER-FOR-XSL:VALUE-OF(SITE-TITLE) on Instagram Contact Us Phone: 408.924.1234 Email: sjsucares@sjsu.edu Visit Office SJSU Cares Clark Hall – Room 140 Monday-Friday 9AM-5PM Spartan Food Pantry Diaz Compean Student Union (exterior entrance across from Engineering Rotunda) Spring Term Pantry Hours: Monday & Friday 10AM-5PM Tuesday-Thursday 10AM-6PM Make a Gift Give to SJSU Cares Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Nov 29, 2021