Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Colleges and Schools Scheller College of Business Business, Meet Tech The Scheller College of Business has educated future leaders of business, government, and nonprofit organizations since it was founded in 1912. As a College of Business student, you'll expand your knowledge and the critical thinking skills needed to thrive in today's technology-driven global economy. What We Offer Prestigious reputation and impressive return on investment One of the top undergraduate business programs (Bloomberg Businessweek and U.S. News & World Report). Number 1 full-time MBA program among public universities (Bloomberg Businessweek), and #1 nationwide for annualized return on investment (PayScale.com). Outstanding and accessible faculty Our business professors are consistently recognized by our students as the top teaching faculty on campus for their engaging teaching styles and accessibility. High-tech savvy Our curriculum emphasizes using technology to solve the complex business problems confronting companies today. Connect with the College of Business Undergraduate MBA Ph.D. Executive Programs College of Computing Make Your Mark on the World With numerous top-rated programs, the College of Computing is a national leader in the research and creation of real-world computing breakthroughs that drive social and scientific progress. As a computer science student, your horizons will expand through interdisciplinary collaboration and a focus on human-centered solutions. What We Offer Customizable undergraduate degrees Our curriculum is built around Threads, allowing you to weave a personalized path and become the kind of well-rounded graduate that today's global job market demands. Mentoring and advising Using a full-circle intentional advising approach, we work with you to create a plan that includes personal development opportunities and career assistance. The nation’s only complete, online Masters of Science in Computer Science Be a trailblazer. Receive your Master of Science in Computer Science from anywhere in the world, with our completely online degree program. Connect with the College of Computing College of Computing Website Computing Schools College of Design Where Creativity Meets Technology For over a century, the College of Design has been combining creativity, collaboration, and technology to produce forward-thinking graduates who are ready to take on the world's biggest problems. To make a difference in today's world, you need an education that is flexible and broad. The College of Design gives you the ability to find your own box and sculpt your own education. What We Offer A competitive edge Students get exposure to emerging trends and research in digital design, new materials, and urban design, and enter the job market with a competitive edge. Cross-disciplinary, flexible academics Students are encouraged to pursue minors, certificates, study abroad programs, research opportunities, and internships. Design, technology, and engagement As a student, your hands on experiences can range from designing net zero energy apartment buildings in an architecture studio, or prototypes in the state-of-the-art interactive product development lab, to planning walkable neighborhoods, or injecting technology into music composition and performance. Connect with the College of Design College of Design Website Design Schools College of Engineering Because Dreams Need Doing As the largest engineering college in the U.S. and a leader in education, research, and service, the College of Engineering anticipates and meets the needs of tomorrow's world. Engineering students have opportunities to work hands-on alongside renowned faculty on meaningful interdisciplinary research projects with real human benefits. What We Offer Top-ranked programs and impressive return on investment The College of Engineering ranks among the nation's top five engineering colleges, and our schools are among the top 10 (U.S. News & World Report). Engineering is constantly ranked among the highest-paying college majors, and Georgia Tech is one of the best universities at which to study it. Exceptional location Our location in the heart of one of America's most vibrant cities combines the resources of a major university with the benefits of an urban campus, giving you the tools you need to chase your ambitions, and opening doors to hundreds of internships and work opportunities. Leadership and entrepreneurship training Our students are prepared not just for jobs in engineering but also for the responsibilities of leadership. Our focus on innovation and entrepreneurship gives students an edge, allowing them to create inventions, start businesses, and design solutions to global problems – all before graduation. Connect with the College of Engineering College of Engineering Website Engineering Schools Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Progressive Liberal Arts in a Technology-Driven World As a student in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts, you will acquire the broad contextual understanding that is the hallmark of training in the humanities and social sciences, as well as the technical grounding that distinguishes Georgia Tech graduates. This comprehensive approach trains you to think and work across multiple realms and to consider the human and environmental impact of decisions — a distinct advantage in the job market. What We Offer Leading-edge degree programs Our academic programs are internationally renowned as models for liberal arts education in the technological age. A competitive edge As a liberal arts student, you'll be part of a vibrant learning community that offers exceptional opportunities to build a distinctive educational resume through internships, international study, work-abroad, and research. Outstanding and accessible faculty You'll benefit from a 5:1 student-to-faculty ratio and from courses taught by full-time, tenure-track faculty. Connect with the College of Liberal Arts College of Liberal Arts Website Liberal Arts Schools College of Sciences Discover New Frontiers in Science If you're interested in making discoveries that can change the way we understand the world, or if you want to create new solutions to the challenges facing humanity ... then the College of Sciences is for you. As a sciences student, you will learn from internationally recognized faculty and work in state-of-the-art facilities, ensuring excellent preparation for advanced study and rewarding careers. What We Offer Flexible degree programs The College of Sciences is made up of seven schools offering degree programs characterized by both their rigor and flexibility for students who want to tailor them to specific career goals or interests. Unlimited opportunities Students are encouraged to explore research activities with faculty from the time that they are undergraduates. From research courses to summer research programs, internships, co-op positions, and employment opportunities, the possibilities for student participation are endless. International experiences The College of Sciences has opportunities all over the world, in countries such as Australia, China, New Zealand, Spain, Hungary, France, the United Kingdom, and more. Connect with the College of Sciences College of Sciences Website Science Schools Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login