Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Office of the Chancellor Office of the Chancellor About the Chancellor expand_more Biography Campus Communications Contact History of the office Town Halls & Campus Updates UW Tacoma Facts Vision, mission, and values Initiatives expand_more Business Diversity & Equity Program COVID-19 Resources add Health, testing and vaccines Spring Quarter 2022 Frequently Asked Questions Resources for faculty & staff Communications on COVID-19 Husky PACK Pledge Campus Climate Initiative add UW Climate Survey Reports and Implementation Plans UW Climate Survey Response and Implementation Dressel Scholars Program add Mentorship Program Past Dressel Scholars Strategic Planning add Coordinating Committee Administration expand_more Chancellor's Cabinet Directors and deans Advisory Board Campus committees UW Leadership Leadership Searches Recognition & Awards expand_more Chancellor's Medal Distinguished Community Engagement Award Distinguished Librarian Award Distinguished Research Award add Nomination Information Distinguished Service Award Distinguished Teaching Award add Nomination Information President's Medal Divisions expand_more Academic Affairs Advancement Equity & Inclusion Finance & Administration Information Technology Student Affairs MyUW Map Tools Breadcrumb Home Office of the Chancellor COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Resources Last update: 4/25/2022 @ 9:57 a.m. Masks are currently recommended on campus. Latest updates Update on spring quarter classes and changes to UW mask policies (Message to UW students) Campus is open and classes are primarily meeting in-person. If you are sick with any illness, you must stay home, even if you’ve been fully vaccinated. The University of Washington's coronavirus webpage is also updated frequently as new information is available. Masks available KN95 face masks are available to students, faculty and staff at the University Y Student Center or the Library Help Desk in Snoqualmie while supplies last. Limit one per person. COVID-19 Testing Free home rapid self-test kits now available You can order four free rapid self-test kits distributed through the U.S. Post Office at covidtests.gov. Most pharmacy and urgent care clinics also offer testing. In addition, Tacoma-Pierce County Health Department's mobile testing labs offer free COVID-19 testing for anyone. Husky Coronavirus Testing We are offering self-administered tests through the Husky Coronavirus Testing voluntary research study, powered by the Seattle Flu Study – the group that was the first to report community spread of COVID-19 in the United States. Enrollment is encouraged for all students, faculty and staff who will be on campus regularly. Kits are available in the Tacoma Paper & Stationery Building (TPS) (see sidebar for hours). COVID-19 vaccine UW Medicine has developed a guide to the COVID-19 vaccine and answers to common questions. At this time the vaccine is available to anyone 12 years of age or older at no cost. Appointments available at UW Medicine and many other providers. Pierce County also has a website with vaccine information and local availability. In order to protect the health and safety of our community, the University of Washington is requiring all students and personnel to be vaccinated against COVID-19, with certain exemptions allowed. You need to verify that you’ve been vaccinated or declare an exemption. When should you report a case? UW Environmental Health & Safety, in coordination with local and state public health agencies, responds to suspected and confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the UW community and takes action to prevent further transmission. The public health response activities include a case interview, risk assessment, providing guidance for self-isolation, notifications to those impacted and contact tracing. To help you determine when and how to report, view the COVID-19 Guidance Flowchart. For more details about UW’s reporting requirements, see COVID-19 Case Response. Quick Info Spring Quarter 2022 Guide to in-person and remote campus services Communications on COVID-19 Health, Testing & Vaccines Resources for Faculty & Staff FAQ COVID Self-Test Kits The Husky Coronavirus Testing program, a voluntary research study has self-test kits available on the Ground floor of the Tacoma Paper & Stationery Building (TPS). Finished tests can be placed in the dropbox there as well. If you are not already enrolled in the testing program, you can enroll online. **CLOSED 5/30/2022** The testing desk is open: M: 9:00am - 5:00pm T: 9:00am - 5:00pm W: 9:00am - 5:00pm Th: 9:00am - 1:00pm F: 9:00am - 5:00pm Contact Office of the Chancellor email uwtchancellor@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-5646 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy