Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About About Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us About the Morrissey College The Robert J. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences fosters the rigorous intellectual development and the religious, ethical, and personal growth of its students. Morrissey College faculty and students directly engage the world’s most pressing problems, using their gifts to enhance the common good. The Morrissey College offers undergraduate and graduate programs in the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Students emerge prepared to thrive in a broad range of careers and ready to serve as capable and passionate leaders, working as a leaven for good in communities around the world. As the oldest and largest division of Boston College, the Morrissey College embodies the Jesuit, Catholic commitment to depth of inquiry, academic excellence, and educating the whole person through a formative engagement with the liberal arts. Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Morrissey College at a Glance 6,162 Undergraduate Enrollment Fall 2020, IRPA 717 Graduate Enrollment Fall 2020, IRPA 515 Total Full-time Faculty Fall 2020, IRPA Play The Power of a Liberal Arts education At the Morrissey College, we educate students in a 500-year Jesuit tradition by combining intellectual rigor with a concern for the formation of character. Our graduates are people who are well-educated, well-prepared, men and women ready to make a difference in the world. Why the Morrissey College? “Our Jesuit tradition encourages us to judge our success as an institution by who our students become. At Boston College, we hope our students become women and men of depth of thought and creative imagination, who are ready to engage the needs of our world and well-prepared for meaningful lives of leadership, scholarship, and service.” Gregory Kalscheur, S.J., Dean, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Message The BC Difference Core Curriculum Through our Core Curriculum, undergraduates encounter the defining works and ideas that have shaped history, and learn how to think across disciplines and communicate effectively in an increasingly complex world. Liberal Arts Advantage A liberal arts education develops critical thinking, ethical reasoning, creative imagination, and the habits of character necessary to flourish in meaningful careers and promote the common good. Majors & Minors Explore your academic path: What brings you joy? What are you good at? What does the world need? These three questions at the heart of the Jesuit, Catholic process of discernment can guide your choice. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College