Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Chemistry at Brown: Undergraduate Home About Research Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Courses Resources People News Seminars & Events Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Transfer Credit Approval Process To ensure the department reviews your transfer credit request in a timely manner, please follow the instructions below. Questions about the process? Please email [email protected]. Guidelines Below are guidelines for transferring credit in chemistry. Each request is considered on a case-by-case basis. Type Minimum Score Transfer Credit Approval Course taken at another institution C or higher The Chemistry Department will recommend credit assignment for course content equivalent to Brown chemistry courses. IB-HL Score 6 or higher Students with qualifying results on record with the Registrar's Office may bypass CHEM0330 and enroll directly into CHEM0350. You may have CHEM0330 course credit transcribed on your Brown transcript if needed for graduation credit. Please contact Dean Bhattacharyya to have CHEM0330 credit transcribed. British A-Levels B or higher Students with qualifying results on record with the Registrar's Office may bypass CHEM0330 and enroll directly into CHEM0350. You may have CHEM0330 course credit transcribed on your Brown transcript if needed for graduation credit. Please contact Dean Bhattacharyya to have CHEM0330 credit transcribed. For more information on international exams, please see the Dean of the College webpage. Instructions Obtain the syllabus for the course. Syllabi must contain the following information for review: List of topics covered How often the course meets List of experiments performed in the laboratory If you are taking/have taken the course over the summer, the syllabus must be for the summer version of the course, not the regular semester version. 2. Sign in to the Transfer Credit Approval System in the Advising Sidekick (ASK) and follow the instructions for either Equivalency Review (for unassigned CHEM credits) or Post-Matriculation Transfer Credit Approval ("Study Away"). The Office of the Dean of the College highly recommends students considering Study Away meet with Deans Bhattacharyya, Cohen, Dennis, Lee, O'Neill, or Vassilev (pre-medicine) to discuss their Degree Completion Plan during open office hours in advance of submitting a request in ASK. Please allow ten business days for the department to review your course materials. Department Transfer Credit Policies In addition to Brown University transfer credit policies, the following apply to chemistry courses. Lab Policy: If you are seeking transfer credit for a Brown course that has a lab component, you MUST take both the lecture and the lab elsewhere for the credit to transfer. You cannot mix a lecture grade from another institution with a lab grade from Brown. Online Course Policy: The Department of Chemistry will not consider or transfer credit for courses with a virtual laboratory. Online lectures will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top