Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) AAA Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) The University of Miami ensures that all faculty and staff comply with federal and state guidelines concerning the use of animals in research and teaching through the Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC). The IACUC's Mission Review and approve animal use protocols; Ensure that investigators and staff are properly trained; Ensure that research and teaching activities conform to best practices as defined by The Guide For the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals; Inspect animal care and use facilities to ensure compliance with federal regulations and policies; Review the animal care and use program semiannually; and Investigate concerns raised by faculty and staff regarding the humane care and use of lab animals. To contact the IACUC, email iacucsupport@med.miami.edu. How IACUC Ensures Animal Welfare and Safety Open All Tabs Certain kinds of questions can be answered only through animal studies The University of Miami, like every other major research institution developing treatments and therapies to combat disease, conducts biomedical research involving animals. Health research institutions depend upon animal-based research because they need to understand complex biology and the impacts of new treatments in living systems that mirror human physiology, development, and disease. Animal studies remain critical in developing treatments for injury and disease in both animals and humans Animal studies have played essential roles in the development of therapies to combat AIDS, several forms of cancer, diabetes, heart disease, paralysis and other medical conditions. While numerous advances have led to new or improved clinical treatments and prevention strategies, there are many diseases where few, if any therapeutic options exist. These include leukemia, breast and pancreatic cancers, Alzheimer’s disease, traumatic brain injury, and stroke. A fundamental necessity for continued progress As health researchers, we believe it is our moral imperative to use the proven and effective research process – which involves animals – to continue to make innovative discoveries that positively impact human lives. The “Three R” principles of animal welfare We believe in the “Three R” principles of animal welfare – reduction, refinement, and replacement. We understand the tremendous responsibility that comes with animal-based research. We conduct studies with animals only when necessary and provide them with outstanding care. Substantial effort is made to ensure that all procedures are continually refined to minimize pain and distress to the animals. In addition, the number of experimental animals is reduced to the minimum necessary. The personnel who provide our animal care consider it a privilege to work with animals, and demonstrate this commitment daily by treating them with the utmost care and respect. Internal and external oversight of our animal studies The University’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee reviews and approves all research protocols and procedures that the animals experience. As additional safeguards to the animals, our research program is inspected annually by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) and triennially by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), the highest standard of accreditation for US animal research programs. Oversight of our animal research includes not just routine reviews and reports, but also unannounced visits to research and training units, aiming to ensure that animals are treated humanely and with the utmost care. If there is ever a lapse in any process, it is self-reported, and appropriate and timely corrective actions are taken. Actions taken for any non-compliance can be severe, and range from official warnings to fines being imposed on the institution, with the possibility of suspension of work or the revocation of research licenses We comply with federal laws and regulations including the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) regulations overseen by the USDA. We also closely follow the Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (PHS Policy) administered by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW). Our country’s comprehensive animal care oversight systems require regular communications between research institutions and federal regulators to ensure that animals are treated well and adjustments take place as needed. This system works rapidly and effectively to ensure that animals are well cared for. Animal studies at the University of Miami have already led to innovative therapies Animal-based research at the University of Miami continues to contribute to advances in the treatment of serious human medical conditions—examples include: Researchers at UM’s Miami Project to Cure Paralysis performed animal studies that led to the demonstration that “therapeutic hypothermia”, a slight lowering of the temperature in areas of the central nervous system, can lessen the severity of deficits suffered by people with neurodegenerative conditions like traumatic brain injury or spinal cord injury Animal studies performed by researchers at UM’s Bascom Palmer Eye Institute have led to a novel gene therapy that is highly promising in initial human studies to treat Leber’s Hereditary Optic Neuropathy—a previously untreatable disease that causes progressive and devastating loss of vision Researchers at UM’s Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and Department of Microbiology and Immunology performed animal studies that led to the development of a unique monoclonal antibody that is now part of a novel drug used successfully to treat cancer Animal Research: Perceptions vs Reality The University of Miami is mindful of the ethical issues that surround the conduct of research with animals. However, some social media sites intentionally promote ill-informed “facts” or half-truths about animal research. Below, we provide a link to an informative brochure, assembled by the Foundation for Biomedical Research, which tackle the myths surrounding animal research. We hope you find these resources useful in understanding the proven facts about the successful results and benefits to both humans and animals that animal research has provided. Learn More Access the iacuc secure site Please note that you must have a password to log into this application. For more information, contact IACUC. IACUC Secure Log-In Reporting Animal Welfare Concerns Concerns regarding the care and use of laboratory animals at the University of Miami can be anonymously reported to: University Hotline Office of Research / Institutional Official: (305) 243-9635 DVR: (305) 243-2310 To Contact the IACUC, email: iacucsupport@med.miami.edu. Report a Concern 2021 IACUC Submission Deadlines and Meeting Dates Meeting Date Submission Deadline Date Thursday, January 06, 2022 Thursday, December 16, 2021 Thursday, February 03, 2022 Thursday, January 13, 2022 Thursday,March 03, 2022 Thursday, February 10, 2022 Thursday, April 07, 2022 Thursday, March 17, 2022 Thursday, May 05, 2022 Thursday, April 14, 2022 Thursday, June 02, 2022 Thursday, May 12, 2022 Thursday, July 07, 2022 Thursday, June 16, 2022 Thursday, August 04, 2022 Thursday, July 14, 2022 Thursday, September 01, 2022 Thursday, August 11, 2022 Thursday, October 06, 2022 Thursday, September 15, 2022 Thursday, November 03, 2022 Thursday, October 13, 2022 Thursday, December 01, 2022 Thursday, November 10, 2022 Thursday, January 12, 2023 Thursday, December 15, 2022 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices