Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The UofM Experience Academics Campus Life UofM Campuses City of Memphis Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation UofM Experience This is how you do college to the fullest. Life at the UofM is yours to create and define. It’s your connection point to discovery and opportunities that shape who you become. Every Me + Memphis journey unfolds a little differently and might not even be what you expected. It’ll be even better. Check Out the Digital Viewbook Be sure to click around to explore the audio, video, slide shows and other interactive content. Set Your Path | Academics Some students arrive on campus knowing exactly what they want to study. Others need to explore and stretch out a bit before making that decision. Either way, you’ll find what speaks to you with more than 220 areas of study to choose from — many of our programs are top ranked. You might discover something you didn’t even know you could be. And you’ll make real, meaningful connections with faculty because our student to faculty ratio is just 16:1. Explore Majors > Home At Last | Housing We’re focused on providing students with a contemporary and cool residential vibe. These aren’t your parent’s dorm rooms. And living on campus is about so much more than the physical space — it’s a feeling that is just unmatched, full of energy, friendships, independence, spirit and fun. Surround yourself with other Tigers in one of our on-campus housing options. Discover Your Home Sweet Home > Tigers Gotta Eat | Dining Great eats are scattered throughout campus, giving you the flexibility to fuel up anywhere you find yourself. The main hubs for dining (there are two) are both centrally located in the middle of campus and include an all-you-can-eat cafeteria with take-out options, coffee shops, markets, sit-down restaurants and popular fast food chains. Lots of students sign up for meal plans. You can also add flex bucks to any plan for use in between meals at popular spots on campus, like Chick-fil-A, Einstein Bros. Bagels, Panda Express, Grind City Coffee and much more. Chow Down > Get in the Mix | Clubs & Organizations College is one of the most important adventures of a lifetime and the organizations and clubs you join will define your journey and strengthen your purpose. Whatever you’re into, however you want to grow as a person, there is a group here that gives you the perfect platform. Don’t blink. These years go by quickly, so get in the mix early. You won’t regret it. Get Involved > Arrive + Thrive | Student Support A defining trait of being a Memphis Tiger is to encounter support everywhere you turn. We make the transition from home to campus and beyond the best that it can be by connecting students to resources and services to amplify academic success. It all starts with advising, but there is tons you can tap into, including tutoring, specialized programs for first-generation and study abroad students, writing center assistance and so much more. Our Department of Student Academic Success is here to help remove any barriers that might otherwise get in your way of graduating on time. We also prepare students for internship interviews that lead to real work. Access Resources > Tiger Families When you have a college-bound student, it’s an exciting time for you, too. You want them to make the right choice and feel good about their success and well-being wherever they wind up. This online resource will tell you more about the UofM experience and hopefully answer most of your questions. Parent & Family Resources > High School Counselors The University of Memphis is grateful to counselors for the incredible support you provide to future Memphis Tigers. You work so hard to help students explore their college and career plans, so we hope our online resource will make your job a little easier. Counselor Resources > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/4/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.