Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript Home UW Research MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Write Proposal UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Write Proposal Close Menu Home Plan/Propose Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Industry Clinical Trials Classified or Restricted Research Recruit Team Personnel International/Global Find Collaborators Consultants Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Additional Considerations Submit Proposal Post Submission Contents Plan Proposal Develop Proposal Content Plan Proposal Investigators and scientific personnel should work with their department research administrators to identify technical and business elements that need to be submitted as part of their research proposals. Requirements will vary depending on the source of funding, or sponsor of the research. Before preparing your proposal, carefully read the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA)/Sponsor Instructions. This will help guide your proposal development. Sponsor instructions can be found on the: Program announcement (PA) Request for Application (RFA) Request for Proposal (RFP) Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) Sponsor website Sponsor-specific Proposal Instructions, e.g. SF424 (R&R) Guide, NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide (PAPPG) In addition to these instructions, sponsors often have general policies and guidelines that must be followed. Federal sponsors also adopt Uniform Guidance and agency-specific regulations that may impact proposal preparation. Review select sponsor requirements as well as the hierarchy of federal regulation to understand what these requirements are and where they come from. Make sure to use current sponsor-provided templates and pay attention to sponsor notifications on updated application requirements. Review additional considerations guidance for topics such as Human Subjects, Subawards, Industry Clinical trials and more. Develop Proposal Content Identify and plan for internal deadlines related to the technical and business components of your proposals. Business components often must be finalized ahead of associated technical components. Consider using project management tools, such as the Collaborative Proposal Resources. Adapt the Annotated Workplan to help keep team members accountable for completing required sections by deadlines; use the checklist to ensure you have all your bases covered. Prepare all UW and sponsor required forms including UW institutional information. At a minimum, proposals must contain a scope of work, budget, budget justification, collaborator letters of intent, biosketch, and other sponsor-required documentation, as applicable. If you have not already done so, verify: PIs/Senior Key Personnel committed to or identified for the project have not been debarred or suspended. Vendors are not considered a covered telecommunications equipment or services supplier. Vendors for procurement purchases under $35k are not listed within the SAM.gov exclusions list. Coordinate letters of support or commitment from any other investigators or research locations to ensure final copies are received and incorporated into your proposal in time for internal and sponsor deadlines. Early review and planning to include biosketches and collaborators information such as current and pending or other support can help with budget preparation and prevent delays in proposal routing. There are other unique considerations depending on the scope of work and who is participating on the project. Scope of Work The Scope of Work or Research Plan describes the research to be conducted and may include a timeline, milestones, and deliverables. Consult sponsor guidelines and any relevant funding opportunity announcements for guidance. The level of detail will vary depending upon the proposal/award type (grant or contract) and sponsor and should be adjusted appropriately. Generally, it is best to provide as much detail as required to meet the potential sponsor’s needs, but not so much as to restrict your ability to adjust the scope if necessary during the project. Provide enough details about the purpose and aims so your UW administrative and compliance reviewers have the information needed to carry out their review. Budget Preparation The budget is a financial reflection of the scope of work. Follow internal and external sponsor guidelines as well as UW policies when preparing proposal budgets. SAGE Budget is the recommended tool for preparing proposal budgets at the UW. This tool provides streamlined, efficient entry, and reliable calculations leveraged from institutional data (UW salaries, benefits, and F&A rates). Budgets created using this tool also provide an easy-to-read summary view for reviewers and PIs. Review more guidance on: Budget Development SAGE Budget Sponsor Requirements Budget Justification The budget justification accompanies your budget and describes to the sponsor how each cost will support the award. Review budget justification guidance for preparing your proposal. Collaborator Letters of Intent Collaborators can be subrecipients, consultants, or other significant contributors. Review more information on formalizing collaborations. Keep in mind, that incorporating letters of intent from individuals or entities outside the University can take more time. Projects with outside collaborators should allow for this in the timeline. Biosketches Most sponsors use biosketches to assess the qualifications of the PI and other key personnel on a project. Biosketches often include education and training background, positions held, research support and publications, as well as honors or other recognition received in the individual’s field of study. Federal sponsors typically have specific templates or required formats to such as the NSF-approved biosketch formats or the NIH biosketch format tempalte. All personnel should keep their biosketches up to date and easily accessible, for proposal preparation. There are tools available to develop and update your biosketch, including SciENcv. National Science Foundation (NSF): PIs, Co-PIs, and other Senior Project personnel are required to include: NSF-Approved Biographical Sketch NSF-Approved Current and Pending Support Collaborator and Other Affiliations (COA) template Forms, Templates and Tools NIH: How to Apply – Application Guide Tools NIH: Writing Your Application NSF: Guide for Proposal Writing Grantsmanship Center Philanthropy Northwest Proposal Development Checklist Opportunity Evaluation Matrix Proposal Development Timeline RFA/RFP Elements Mapped to Deadlines Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Subrecipient, Contractor/Vendor, Consultant? NIH: Sample Grant Applications Policies, Procedures and Guidance GIM 01 – Review and Submission Requirements for Proposals GIM 34 – Classification of External Support as Either a… GIM 10 – Financial Conflict of Interest Policy GIM 19 – Internal Deadlines for Proposals to External Entities GIM 07 – Sponsored Program Subaward Administration Training CORE: Blueprint of a Proposal Announcements March 11, 2022 Rates Estimated Fiscal Year 2023 Benefit Rates Available July 13, 2020 Rates Final Fiscal Year 2021 Benefit Rates are Available May 26, 2020 NSF: Delays Requirement for Approved Biographical Sketch & Current and Pending Support Formats September 3, 2019 NIH: Human Fetal Tissue Research – Clarifications and FAQs published All Announcements Home Plan/Propose Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Federal Non-Federal Industry Clinical Trials Classified or Restricted Research Recruit Team Personnel International/Global Find Collaborators Consultants Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Additional Considerations Submit Proposal Post Submission University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA