Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Alcohol Recognizing a Problem If you are concerned about a friend's drinking, go to how to help a friend. If you are concerned about yourself, read the following statements and keep track of how many times they apply to you. Drinking Patterns It is difficult for you to stop drinking after you've had one or two drinks. When you drink, you always wind up drunk. Even after your friends say they've had enough alcohol, you want to continue drinking. You turn to certain "drinking buddies" or to a specific environment when you drink. You crave a drink at a specific time every day, like after class or after work. When you're out with friends, you sneak a few drinks without their knowledge. A significant part of your day is spent obtaining, consuming, or recovering from the effects of alcohol. You sometimes have a drink to help you fall asleep. You sometimes stay drunk for several days at a time. After Drinking The day after drinking, you have trouble remembering what you did the night before. You sometimes feel guilty about your drinking. Most of the time, you have a hangover or headache after you've been drinking. When you're sober, you often regret things you said or did while you were drinking. After drinking, you have experienced severe anxiety, shaking, or visual or auditory hallucinations. Consequences Drinking has caused you to be late for class or work. Your performance at school or work has suffered because of your drinking. You have gotten into an argument or a fistfight while you were drinking. Your drinking has led to financial problems. You have neglected your classes, job, family or other obligations for two or more days in a row because you were drinking. You have been arrested for intoxicated behavior or driving under the influence of alcohol. Drinking and Emotions When you're in a social situation and no alcohol is provided, you feel uncomfortable. You use alcohol as an escape when you're angry, disappointed, or otherwise upset. Your personality is altered when you consume alcohol. Family and Friends Your family or friends have expressed concern about your drinking. You get irritated when your family or friends want to discuss your drinking. You have lost a friend or created a rift with a family member based on their feelings about your drinking. You've tried to change You've promised yourself to slow down or stop drinking, but you can only keep the promise for a few days or weeks at a time. You have tried switching from one kind of alcohol to another in an effort to cut down or remain in control of your drinking, or to try to avoid getting drunk. If 4 or more of these statements apply to you, you may have a problem with alcohol or have the potential to develop one. Examine your habits honestly. Patterns of heavy drinking in college could lead to a more serious problem down the road. You can reduce your drinking with some of the ideas listed in ways to cut down. If 5 or more of these statements apply to you, there's a strong chance that you frequently misuse and abuse alcohol. NOW is the time for you to change your drinking patterns and behaviors. Because of the brain development occurring in teenagers and young adults, you could be at high risk for having these habits develop into set patterns. The resources below can help you. (Adapted from Facts on Tap.) Resources at Brown BWell Health Promotion 401.863-2794 BWell provides individual confidential appointments where a Health Educator and the student collaborate to develop a schema about the effects of their substance use. These conversations can be a powerful tool in helping to make informed decisions, reduce harm, prevent relapse or connect with additional resources. Call 401-863-2794 or request an appointment online. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 401-863-3476 Provides treatment for a range of psychological concerns, including drug and alcohol use issues, in confidential setting, and a goal-focused, collaborative framework. The Dean for Recovery and Substance Free Students 401.863-2536 Brown University is committed to the maintenance of a campus environment that supports all students in achieving their academic goals. To that end, the University dedicates resources to support students in recovery from addiction and substance use disorders. The Dean for Recovery hosts the Early Sobriety at Brown group for students who are committed to abstinence. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency medical care available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Signs of when to call EMS include: Loss of consciousness or unresponsiveness Seizures or severe shaking Physical injury Continued vomiting or blood in vomit Slowed or irregular breathing Hypothermia (low body temperature), bluish skin color or paleness Click here to find out what happens when you call EMS. Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential health care for Brown students. 450 Brook Street. Nursing Services 401-863-1330 Nurses are available for phone consultation 24/7. Student Support Deans, Dean of the Day available at 401-863-3145 Seeks to support students who encounter a wide range of issues, connects them to resources that fit their situation, and serves as a sounding board to explore options and develop plans to help them manage the issue and its impact on their time at Brown. Local and National Resources Alcoholics Anonymous 401-438-8860 Anonymous twelve-step recovery program. For information and meetings, go to rhodeisland-aa.org. Butler Hospital 1-800-433-6888 (inside RI) or 1-800-272-9699 (outside RI) When you or someone you know is ready to commit or re-commit to recovery the patient assessment team at Butler can assist in finding the right program. For more information visit www.butler.org. Narcotics Anonymous 866-624-3578 12 step recovery program that focuses on the disease of addiction rather than any particular drug. Visit www.gpana.org to find local meetings or access the helpline information. The Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Health Care, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals (BHDDH) This site offers a listing of licensed substance use treatment agencies throughout Rhode Island. List includes agencies licensed to provide detox, residential, outpatient, and medication-assisted treatment services. Rhode Island’s Hope & Recovery Support Line, 401-942-STOP (7867) This support line connects people to treatment and recovery services 24 hours/day, 7 days/week, 365 days/year. SAMHSA's National Helpline 1-800-662-HELP (4357) TTY: 1-800-487-4889 This Helpline provides 24-hour, free and confidential treatment referral and information about mental and/or substance use disorders, prevention, and recovery in English and Spanish. ZenCare Allows you to review local (Providence and Boston area) therapists. You can filter options by selecting alcohol, substance use or recovery focus. You can also filter by insurance accepted and schedule a phone consultation to see if it is a right fit. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook