Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Academics Forge a bright future with a degree from Pitt. A Bright Future Recognized for excellence and value, the University is the No. 1 public institution in the Northeast. At Pitt, the best in the field will mentor you. Premier internship, research, and extracurricular opportunities are at your doorstep. As a result, Pitt students outperform their peers in employment rates, higher levels of satisfaction in their work, and overall well-being. Explore our 646 degree and certificate programs » Degree Finder Search, filter or explore. Learn about popular majors and minors, enrichment opportunities and the exciting carers of recent Pitt graduates. Degree Finder Explore Interest Areas Academic Programs A-Z Schools and Colleges Pitt comprises 16 Pittsburgh-campus schools and colleges and four regional campuses—Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown, and Titusville. Schools & Colleges Regional Campuses Centers & Institutes From the Advanced Imaging Center to the World History Center, hundreds of Pitt centers and institutes push the boundaries of knowledge. Centers & Institutes Dive Deeper into Academics at Pitt Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Summer Sessions Regional Campuses Our Faculty Provost SPOTLIGHT Pitt Honors College Forge your own path with innovative programs that cross traditional academic boundaries. Access the full power of a big-city, major research university within a small, curious community. SPOTLIGHT Office of the Provost The Office of the Provost is responsible for a number of strategic initiatives tied to the University’s mission as a public research university. As Provost, Dr. Cudd has focused her initial priorities on programs, strategies, and initiatives that bolster and enhance the University’s strengths and vision for growth and transformation. Slide 1 Slide 2 Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube