Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. UC exchange student shoots for the stars May 16, 2022 Paula Vulić, a master’s student in astrophysics from the University of Zagreb in Croatia set her sights high during an internship exchange semester this spring at the University of Cincinnati. CCM launches International Opera Language and Culture Immersion... May 9, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) is at the center of a new groundbreaking international program that sends the college’s graduate-level opera students abroad to study language and culture in Italy, Germany or France. CCM Opera’s Language and Culture Immersion Program gives student singers, coaches/accompanists and directors the opportunity to embed themselves abroad to live, work and study with the industry’s leading conductors, directors and opera houses. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Presidential medals honor the 'best of the best' May 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati honors four undergraduates with the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence and two graduate students with the Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence in the annual 2022 celebration at Cincinnati's Queen City Club. UC exchange student shoots for the stars May 16, 2022 Paula Vulić, a master’s student in astrophysics from the University of Zagreb in Croatia set her sights high during an internship exchange semester this spring at the University of Cincinnati. CCM launches International Opera Language and Culture Immersion... May 9, 2022 The University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music (CCM) is at the center of a new groundbreaking international program that sends the college’s graduate-level opera students abroad to study language and culture in Italy, Germany or France. CCM Opera’s Language and Culture Immersion Program gives student singers, coaches/accompanists and directors the opportunity to embed themselves abroad to live, work and study with the industry’s leading conductors, directors and opera houses. UC Judaic Studies professor makes local, international impact April 29, 2022 Gila Safran-Naveh has been invited to present a paper at the 18th World Congress of Jewish Studies in August 2022, which would have been a fitting conclusion to her 35-year career as a professor of Judaic Studies at the University of Cincinnati. But it will not be the end of her career. Though she tendered her resignation in January 2022, she was quickly invited back to teach as a professor emerita, a tribute to her life’s body of work and legacy at UC’s College of Arts and Sciences. Over the past 35 years at UC, Safran-Naveh has helped grow Judaic Studies from a program to an entire department, changing the view of Judaic Studies at the University and in Cincinnati as the Endowed Chair of the Jewish Foundation. PhD student aims to improve how engineering is taught April 20, 2022 Jutshi Agarwal was the first doctoral student to enroll in the University of Cincinnati's engineering education graduate degree program. After earning two degrees in aerospace engineering, she realized the next step was to follow her passion for teaching to help improve the way engineering students are taught. She also launched a student chapter of American Society for Engineering Education. UC student wins prestigious Truman Scholarship April 14, 2022 Adam Elzarka is the second University of Cincinnati student to win the prestigious Harry S. Truman Scholarship, in addition to other nationally competitive awards. Scholarship to support students from Ukraine, Russia April 13, 2022 A Greater Cincinnati company has established a scholarship for international students at the University of Cincinnati affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Chemical engineering student researches nanoparticle drug... April 11, 2022 Vishnu Sriram came to the University of Cincinnati from his home country of India to pursue a master’s in chemical engineering. He decided to stay at UC for his Ph.D. to research nanoparticle gene and drug delivery that could someday lead to improved cancer treatments. UC nursing PhD candidate remembered with scholarship for... April 8, 2022 Following UC College of Nursing PhD candidate Louis Gambia Ti Banguima's death, a classmate established a new scholarship fund in his honor. UC students awarded critical language scholarships April 4, 2022 Three students from the University of Cincinnati were announced as finalists for the Critical Language Scholarship this year. The CLS Program is a study abroad opportunity for American college and university students to learn languages essential to America’s engagement with the world. Afghan women share insights about their home country March 23, 2022 Event: April 1, 2022 3:00 AM A panel of Afghan women will share insights about their home country. UC faculty are trusted media sources during Ukraine/Russia... March 2, 2022 Faculty at UC School of Public and International Affairs tapped as media sources during Russian invasion of Ukraine. UC teach-in panel on the Ukraine crisis February 28, 2022 Event: March 1, 2022 11:00 AM Scholars discuss the current Russian invasion of the Ukraine: history and future implications. Architecture co-op builds experiences for grad student Anshumi... February 23, 2022 International grad student explains the takeaways of a DAAP co-op experience with architectural firm in downtown Cincinnati. UC Clermont students, alumni rally for Afghan refugees February 21, 2022 On a chilly, gray Saturday morning in November, more than a dozen lawyers, paralegals and students quietly gathered in a small computer lab in the University of Cincinnati’s Teachers College. Some were experts in immigration law; others, students and alumni of UC Clermont’s paralegal program. All answered a call for volunteers to assist people they would likely never meet, in need half a world away — and showed up, ready to work. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top