Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory LGBTQ Center Brown Alumni LGBTQ Center Brown Alumni Brown TBGALA is the Transgender, Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Alumni Group at Brown. You can become a member of TBGALA visiting the TBGALA website or by updating your profile through the Brown Alumni Relations website. There are various ways Alumni can support the LGBTQ Center. We have opportunities for Alums to serve on Advisory Boards and Working Groups. In addition, TBGALA is always looking for volunteers and leaders who would like to start a TBGALA chapter in their area. If you sponsor LGBTQ Alumni events in your home town or city and you would like to let recent grads know about your events we can post them here on our website. During Commencement/Reunion weekend we co-sponsor an Alumni Reception with the Alumni Relations Office. Please check our calendar in May for the most up-to-date information. We also hold "Back To Campus" events that we would like to invite you to. If you are interested in getting on the list to receive these invitations please contact us and we will add you to our TBGALA email list. If you would like to make a gift to the LGBTQ Center you can contact the Program Director, Kelly Garrett, to discuss our specific needs. To provide some examples, your gift can help fund: furniture, computers, books and DVD's student workers student scholarships student travel to LGBTQ/academic conferences specific academic and educational programming organized through the LGBTQ Center If you would like to find out more about how you can support the Brown LGBTQ Center or you have questions about TBGALA please email Kelly Garrett or call 401-863-3495. Home About Newsletter Get Involved [email protected] Resources Grad Resources LGBTQ Community Leadership Award Alumni Lavender Graduation Print this Page Share this Page LGBTQ Center Brown University 321 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Mailing Address: Box 1915 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3062 [email protected] Calendar Jun 2 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 3 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 4 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 5 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory LGBTQ Links Trevor Project Youth Pride, Inc. PFLAG AIDS Care Ocean State The Task Force Connect with us LGBTQC on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our email lists