Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry Creative Inquiry Mentor Resources Dr. Moore de Peralta and her CI students work in Las Malvinas, Dominican Republic More than 400 innovative and challenging Creative Inquiry projects are active at this time. Each project is led by one or more faculty members, sometimes collaborating with staff or graduate students. Any potential mentors are encouraged to join the bi-monthly CI + UR News email dissemination for deadlines and targeted opportunities for CI projects, mentors, and students. To join this list, please email ciinfo@g.clemson.edu. Proposing a New Project To get started, review the comprehensive list of active projects. Create a project that will involve students from your own and/or other departments. Many of the most successful projects are cross-disciplinary. Consider consulting your College Liaison or the CI project office, as they might know of particular areas that would benefit from a new project. Duplicate projects will not be eligible for funding. Consider working with an outside business, industry, agency or private group to collaborate with your project team. Identify a course to be used for your CI project and obtain permission from the department chair to teach this course. Submit your project proposal. Managing Your Project Once your proposal is approved: Use the CI project manager to edit, update information, add courses, and accomplishment/reports. Each semester you must enter your CI Course and section numbers on the 'course' tab. Review the Procedures for Spending CI Funds page. Reporting: Annual reports (for the academic year) are required and due no later than 30 June. You may enter project accomplishments at any time in the project manager (they will automatically populate in your annual report for that year). Present CI project research at the annual Focus on Creative Inquiry Poster Forum. Students Conducting Research for Credit – Medical Coverage Undergraduate students conducting research for credit (i.e. not in a paid position such as a student worker, etc.) are NOT covered under the university’s workers compensation program in the event of an accident. In such cases, any medical costs incurred that are not covered under the student health fee, may have to be paid by the student. It is recommended that students and parents consider the risks associated with the work to be conducted and determine the need for additional medical insurance coverage (if applicable). A list of services covered and not covered under the student health fee, as well as a link to purchase the Student Health Insurance Plan can be found here: https://www.clemson.edu/campus-life/student-health/insurance-and-billing.html Project Funding To be considered for funding you must: add CI courses to your CI project at the beginning of each semester provide an annual budget request and justification that aligns with research activities provide annual reports highlighting the outcomes of the project (e.g., methodologies developed, publications, art exhibits, apps developed, etc.) participate in FoCI meet assessment criteria outlined in the 'assessment' section below Standard CI projects may request up to $4,000 (in clearly justified funds) per academic year to support research activities for teams of 6 or more students. CI LAUNCH projects may request up to $500 per semester. Please reference the Policies and Procedures for Spending CI Funds to see what are allowable versus not allowable expenses. Conference travel grants are available to partially support mentor and students travel to professional conferences in order to present their CI project research. Foreign travel requires advance approval by your college, the Office of Global Engagement, and must include undergraduate students who are part of the CI project. **CI will not budget international travel funding until receiving the approval (or forwarded approval) from Global Engagement, the names of traveling students, and the travel itinerary from the project mentor. All travel must follow university policies and procurement procedures. Appropriate departmental and/or college permissions are required. Project Assessment All CI projects are assessed annually, based on annual reports. In addition, each project must resubmit every two years. Resubmitted projects are assessed based on the following rubric. CI Committee, Your College Representatives Please use your representatives as a resource! The 2021-2022 representatives are: College of Architecture, Arts & Humanities David Detrich, Art Alan Grubb, History College of Agriculture, Forestry & Life Sciences Margaret Condrasky, Food, Nutrition & Packaging Sciences Troy Farmer, Forestry & Environmental Conservation College of Behavioral, Social & Health Sciences David White, Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management June Pilcher, Psychology College of Business James Gaubert, Marketing Ryan Toole, Management College of Engineering, Computing & Applied Sciences Jessica Larsen, Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Steven Brandon, General Engineering College of Education Ryan Visser, Education & Human Development College of Science Michael Sehorn, Genetics & Biochemistry Tzuen-Rong ‘Jeremy’ Tzeng, Biological Sciences Advisory members: Robert Hollingsworth (Libraries); David Knox (Clemson Thinks2); Juan Xu (Institutional Research); Joanna Floyd (Research/Industry Contracts); and Holly Williams (Honors College) Additional Resources Our Opportunities page is constantly updated to bring you the latest available research, funding, and travel opportunities for undergraduates at Clemson University. See our Services page for a list of equipment available for checkout. FAQ How do I credit Creative Inquiry on my poster or presentation? CI credit statement for publications and presentations: Appropriate phrases include: “This project is supported by the Clemson University Creative Inquiry program.” (If CI is your only source of support) OR “This project is partially supported by the Clemson University Creative Inquiry program.” (If you have other financial supporters) CI logos for use on presentations and posters: Creative Inquiry Logos Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Creative Inquiry Logo - White (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (Illustrator) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo - Color (PNG) Wide Creative Inquiry Logo- White (PNG) Photography permission Creative Inquiry welcomes your contributions of photographs depicting your project's activities, especially photos that include Clemson undergraduate students. If your photos include people other than Clemson students or employees, we must have signed permission forms from each of these people. Parents permission is required for photos of children (under age 18). Print copies of the Photo Permission Form for Minors and the Photo Permission Form for Adults. Keep these forms handy when you are photographing your project activities and participants. When you send photos to the Creative Inquiry office, please also send a copy of the permission forms. This will ensure that we can use your photos to publicize your work. Photos for publicity purposes should be high-resolution, at least 200 (preferably 300) pixels per inch. Intellectual property information and documents Guidelines for Course Instructors and Student Course Project Supervisors Sponsored Student Project Agreement IP Rights Summary Student Participation Agreement- For Use in Sponsored Course Projects Copyright information See copyright information at libguides.clemson.edu/copyright. Home Students Faculty Spending Policies Submit Proposal Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram