Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Why Scheller? Tech Square and Atlanta Home » Why Scheller? » Tech Square and Atlanta Menu Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career Development Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Scheller College is in the most exciting part of the most dynamic city in the South. Video Credit: Sandbox ATL The Tech Square Innovation Ecosystem A key differentiator for our MBA program is our location within the Tech Square Innovation Ecosystem, a globally recognized nexus of innovation and entrepreneurial activity in the heart of Atlanta's Midtown. Conceived, designed and developed by Georgia Tech graduates, Tech Square was launched in 2003 and has quickly become a destination for startup firms, incubators, established technology firms, major corporate offices, corporate innovation centers, venture capital investors, and various retail, residential and business service providers. Tech Square is anchored by Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business, providing our MBA students with an unparalleled opportunity to live, learn, work and play in one of the nation’s premier high tech business neighborhoods. Take a 360° Tour of Tech Square! Credit: Sandbox ATL Note: The Tour works best with your mobile device's YouTube app or the Chrome browser on desktop. An Entrepreneurial Hub Tech Square’s initial focus was as an entrepreneurial hub, and is now home to five startup accelerators, 10 investor offices, and more than 200 startups through the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2), VentureLab, TechSquare Labs, and Georgia Tech’s own business incubator, the Advanced Technology Development Center (ATDC). Our MBA students can leverage these unique assets to develop the entrepreneurial mindset essential for effective business leaders today, whether they work for innovative startups or in large organizations. An Innovation Destination In the last few years, over a dozen Fortune-class corporations across a diverse number of industries have established innovation centers at Tech Square, in order to gain access to Georgia Tech talent and create value-added partnerships with the Institute. Panasonic Innovation Center ThyssenKrupp Research and Innovation Center AT&T Foundry Home Depot Technology Center Coca-Cola European Partners Southern Company Energy Innovation Center Delta Air Lines Innovation Center Anthem Innovation Studio Emerson Innovation Center Stanley Black and Decker Digital Accelerator Worldpay Fintech Startup Accelerator Program NCR Hosted Solutions Lab The proximity of these innovation centers to Scheller College not only provides our students access to some of the world’s most dynamic business leaders, it also allows us to leverage these relationships within our MBA program. The proximity also provides our students with unmatched opportunities to develop critical leadership skills, develop professional networks, and work on “live” business challenges at some of the world’s leading companies. Tech Square’s future as a leading innovation district remains extremely bright. Recently, financial technology company NCR Corp. moved its global headquarters to Tech Square, bringing up to 4,000 jobs into the area in 2017. NCR joins other Fortune 100 corporations headquartered near Tech Square. Georgia Tech developed a 750,000 square foot, mixed-use High Performance Computing Center (HPC) next to Scheller College, which opened in 2018. The HPC provides a collaborative environment dedicated to computing and business analytics and consists of co-located Georgia Tech academic entities and corporate partners in a dynamic environment. Tech Square is a natural setting at the intersection of business and technology, and positions our MBA students to explore learning and career opportunities at pioneering startups and leading corporations. Tech Square provides an environment that few other business schools can offer, and positions us as one of the most innovative business schools for the digital-first age. MBA in ATL Learn why Scheller is the perfect location to advance your business career » Tech Square in the News Harvard Business Review published an article that recognizes Georgia Tech's relationship with Tech Square, and vice versa. Read "Why Today's Corporate Research Centers Need to Be in Cities." » Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures