Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program “I thought I did not have time for the sessions, but they actually saved time at the grocery store and in the kitchen.” The Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP) offered by the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture and Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service is aimed at providing practical, hands-on nutrition education. EFNEP delivers nutrition education in four core areas: diet quality and physical activity, food resource management, food safety, and food security. EFNEP Eligibility: EFNEP includes programming to a diverse audience of children, youth, adults, and families with limited financial resources and who are eligible for Food Assistance programs such as WIC, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), AFDC, or Head Start. The primary audiences are: Low-income parents and other adult caregivers (such as grandparents and guardians) who have primary responsibility for selecting, purchasing, and preparing food for their children. Emphasis is placed on families and caregivers of young children Low-income pregnant women/teens EFNEP for Children and Youth Through hands-on learning activities, EFNEP helps children and youth: Acquire knowledge of the principles of nutrition, physical activity, and good health. Improve the variety of foods consumed with particular emphasis on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and calcium-rich foods. Acquire skills necessary to select and prepare low-cost nutritious foods that are safe to eat. Change behaviors that lead to healthier eating habits and a more physically active lifestyle. EFNEP children and youth learn to: Develop healthy eating habits Choose healthy snacks Practice safe food handling Increase physical activity What does EFNEP provide? A 10 session, interactive, research-based nutrition education program. A nutrition education plan tailored to the needs of each participant. Lessons delivered in group or one-on-one sessions. A Certificate of Achievement upon completing the program. Adult participants in EFNEP learn how to: Plan quick, easy, and healthy meals for their family. Prepare tasty and nutritious recipes through cooking classes. Keep foods safe. Save money on food throughout the month. Be more physically active. EFNEP offers optional lessons addressing: Nutrition during pregnancy Feeding your new baby Feeding your baby solid foods Feeding your children EFNEP HOME Meet the Team "The EFNEP classes helped me to understand how to save money on a tight budget by planning ahead." Tarana Khan, Ph.D. Program Team Director taranak@clemson.edu 803-237-0775 Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request