Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Studies MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Studies MM Apply Request More Info Jazz Studies MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Jazz Studies Develop technical expertise and cultivate your artistic vision with a Master of Music in Jazz Studies in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Open to instrumental and voice students with a Bachelor of Music degree or its equivalent, graduates of the Jazz Studies MM degree program become accomplished jazz musicians. This 30-credit master’s program is offered on both a part-time and full-time basis. You’ll focus on career development and entrepreneurial techniques to help you meet your professional objectives after completion of the program. The internationally renowned Jazz Studies faculty deliver an expansive program blending advanced training in ensemble, jazz performance and studio with rigorous academic coursework vital to the field. You’ll have numerous opportunities to participate in both large and small ensembles, providing a comprehensive performance experience in both solo and ensemble playing. Learn more about opportunities with student ensembles. In addition to the opportunities Jazz Studies students have on campus, Philadelphia is a thriving location for graduates seeking to perform professionally. There are frequent master classes and guest performances by prominent artists and educators. Recent guests include John Clayton, Jon Faddis, Tia Fuller, Wycliffe Gordon, Fred Hersch, Ingrid Jenson, Joe Lovano and Chris Potter. Each spring, the Jazz Studies program hosts Jazz at Lincoln Center’s Essentially Ellington Regional Jazz Festival, during which Jazz Studies faculty lead performances, clinics and master classes for local high school jazz bands. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover jazz studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer jazz studies degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Master of Music in Jazz Studies students have six years to complete this 30-credit degree program. In addition to weekly private lessons in jazz arranging, composition, instrumentation or vocal, some of the coursework includes Business of Music; Jazz Major (weekly private lessons in instrumentation, vocal, composition or arranging); Seminar in Jazz Arranging; Seminar in Jazz Composition; Special Topics in Jazz Pedagogy; Theory Seminar; and Topics in Music History. Learn more about the Master of Music in Jazz Studies coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music History MM Music Theory MM Music MA Music MS Music Education MM Music Performance MM Music Therapy PhD Music PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-JZST-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Studies MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info