Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Loewenberg College of Nursing About Us Programs & Admissions Student Life Faculty & Staff Research & Initiatives News & Events Giving & Support Scrub Hub Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs & Admissions BSN ProgramAdmissions Accelerated BSN ProgramAdmissions RN to BSN ProgramAdmissionsRequest Info MSN ProgramAdmissions Post MSN ProgramAdmissions PhD ProgramAdmissions Pre-Admit Lambuth FAQs Applied: What's Next? Take Action Schedule a tour Apply now Give now Contact Us Find us on Social Media InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Loewenberg College of Nursing Programs and Admissions Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers three options for students through on-ground (BSN) and on-line (RN-BSN) plans of study. Bachelor of Science in Nursing A traditional five-semester BSN program is available at the Memphis and Lambuth campuses for University of Memphis pre-nursing majors and transfer students. Accelerated Bachelor of Science in Nursing An accelerated four-semester (18 months) BSN program is available at the Memphis campus for students with an earned bachelor or higher degree. RN-BSN A 31-credit flexible online RN-BSN program is available for registered nurses who graduated from a nursing associate's degree or diploma program. Graduate Program The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) through a primarily on-line full-time or part-time plan of study. Master of Science in Nursing The Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) is offered with concentrations in a) Nursing Education, b) Advanced Practice (Family Nurse Practitioner, c) Executive Leadership, and d) Accelerated RN to BSN to MSN. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Nursing A fully online seven (7) semester (3.5) years Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Nursing program for registered nurses with a Masters or higher degree. Focusing on health equity research in education, practice, and policy that is interdisciplinary, impactful, and transformative. Certificate Program The Loewenberg College of Nursing offers a Post-MSN certificate program is available for MSN graduates in the specialty of Primary Care (FNP), Nursing Education and Executive Leadership. Post-Master of Science in Nursing Certificate The Post-MSN Certificate program offers a formal program of study for students who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree without requiring them to complete a second master's degree. Distance Education Licensure/Certification Requirements Disclosure Many educational programs offered by the University of Memphis lead to professional licensure within the State of Tennessee and in other states. Students should be aware that licensure and certification requirements vary from state to state and are subject to change. Licensing agencies or boards also may have requirements in addition to an earned degree. The University of Memphis has not made a determination whether University of Memphis’s programs will meet all of the licensure and certification requirements in each US state or territory. The University of Memphis recommends that students who are not Tennessee residents or who plan to seek licensure or certification outside the state of Tennessee contact the appropriate licensing agency or board prior to enrollment in an academic program designed to lead to licensure or certification and discuss their plans with an advisor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.