Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Printing and Mail Services Printing Services For current and updated policies and procedures related to mail services, student mail services, managed document services and printing services, please visit the COVID-19 Business Guidance page. Clemson’s Online Digital Print Services The Clemson Printing Services is your complete source for quality printing. Our knowledgeable staff is available to discuss your document needs, offer print and copying best practices and we will pick up and deliver your jobs right to your desk – fast, efficient and you won’t lose your parking spot. We are a full service printing facility that provides high quality digital imaging with Ricoh certified printers. You can order your printing on the new Online Print Services website. Choose your print specs and see real-time quotes. Upload files and view a proof on your computer. Clemson Print Center specializes in a range of quality services to suit your needs using with Ricoh certified printers: Copying and printing: black and white or color Scanning and imaging of critical documents Wide format color banners and posters in collaboration with Campus Banner and Design Finishing Services: booklet binding, GBC coiling and comb binding, padding, collating/inserting/stapling/tabbing, cutting/creasing/folding, laminating and UV coating Our Location Dillard Building 105 Klugh Avenue Clemson, SC 29634 Place COVID Safety Signage Order Place Faculty/Staff Order Place Student/Clemson Community Order Preferred File Type for Uploading: PDF Other file types may work, please contact us at 864-656-0687 or CUprint@clemson.edu to make sure before uploading. Samples Tips for Preparing Files If your design contains a background or artwork that must run to the edge of the paper without any margin, you’ll need to extend the art past the edge of the page in InDesign. The artwork is printed with crop marks— also called trim marks—and the bindery will cut the edges of the page at the crop marks. Bleed is the term used for the area that extends beyond trim area, and it ensures that no white edges show up on the final trimmed page. Adobe Creative Suite Tips Set up bleed when you create your document. If you know in advance that your artwork will print to the edge of the page, you can set up bleed when you create your document, using a value specified by your printer typically.125 inches. Choose File > New Document or Choose File > Document Setup depending if this is a new document or adding bleeds to an existing document. Click Bleed and Slug to expand it. Enter the bleed in one of the fields, and click the Make all settings the same icon to extend the bleed evenly on all sides. Create a PDF file that includes the bleeds. When it’s time to handoff the document for printing, save it as a PDF file to ensure that bleeds are saved correctly. Choose File > Export. Select Format:Adobe PDF (Print). In the Marks and Bleeds section, select Crop Marks in the Marks area, and Use Document Bleed Settings in the Bleed and Slug area. Click Export to save a PDF file with correct bleed values that is ready for handoff. Reference Link: https://helpx.adobe.com/indesign/how-to/set-print-bleed.html Microsoft Office Suite Tips 1. On the File menu, click Page Setup. 2. In the Page Setup dialog box, under Page, select the dimensions that you want. Your selection represents the page size of the printer paper. If you need to create a bleed, be sure to change the paper size so that the publication will fit on the paper after it has been printed and trimmed. To create a custom page size, enter your changes in the Width and Height boxes, and make sure that you select a paper size that is larger than your finished publication page size. 3. Position the object that you want to bleed so that it extends beyond the edges of the publication page. Object larger Than Page 1. The object 2. The publication page 4. On the File menu, click Print, and then click the Printer Details tab. 5. Click Advanced Printer Setup, and then click the Page Settings tab. 6. Under Printer's marks, select the Crop marks check box. 7. Under Bleeds, select the Allow bleeds and Bleed marks check boxes, and then click OK. 8. Save the document as a PDF and it is ready to hand off. Reference Link: https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Create-a-bleed-for-your-publication-2696da57-3986-4ef0-9393-e21cfcf83a9c Managed Document Services Printing Services COVID Signage Mail Services Student Mail Services Contact Us Related Links Campus Services Campus Life Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram