Skip to main content University of Cincinnati menu left arrow COVID-19 Updates UC Admissions About UC Majors + Programs Campus Life Research Athletics Innovation UC Directory Health Give to UC right arrow magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. The Power of Vision The Power of Vision right arrow down arrow The power of Vision 5 Years of Momentum The power of Vision 5 Years of Momentum The last five years rank among UC's best. Be proud. Be thankful. Be united. Be bold. Be brave. Be next. and be assured: The best is yet to come. The last five years rank among UC's best. Be proud. Be thankful. Be united. Be bold. Be brave. and be assured: The best is yet to come. The power of Next next lives here Unleashing our vision. Leading urban public universities into a new era of innovation and impact. The power of Innovation Launched the Cincinnati Innovation District, the first in Ohio, powered by the success of the 1819 Innovation Hub. This new ecosystem landed a historic $100 million investment from JobsOhio. The power of Discovery Secured a record-breaking $530 million in research. Built a long-term strategy for growth via Research 2030. The Digital Futures complex will be home to breakthrough research in AI, robotics and IoT. “At UC, we’re setting the foundation for the next 200 years of excellence. We owe it to those who come next not to have small dreams or modest goals. They need us to be both daring and disruptive. Because their future depends on our present.” — President Neville Pinto “At UC, we’re setting the foundation for the next 200 years of excellence. We owe it to those who come next not to have small dreams or modest goals. They need us to be both daring and disruptive. Because their future depends on our present.” — President Neville Pinto The power of Moments Highest-ever enrollment. Top ranked co-op program. Record-breaking research. Top 100 “most innovative” universities. Most start-ups launched in school history. Ranked in Top Tier of America’s Best Colleges. APLU’s national talent award winner. Bicentennial celebration. The power of Generosity Alumnus Jim Goetz donated $25 million in honor of his faculty mentor Dr. Thomas Mantei. This historic gift — part of Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati — will inspire students, faculty, staff and alums for generations to come. The power of Perseverance The Bearcats joined the Big 12. Capped off a perfect 13-0 regular season. Won the AAC Championship for the second consecutive year. Earned a spot in the College Football Playoff Semifinals. Coach Fickell won six Coach of the Year awards. Nearly 35 million viewers watched the 2021 season. “no city in the nation better aligns its essence with its environment — infusing where we are with every ounce of who we are.” — President Neville Pinto “no city in the nation better aligns its essence with its environment — infusing where we are with every ounce of who we are.” — President Neville Pinto The power of Place Forbes Magazine’s “most beautiful college campus” just got even better. New homes for Lindner College of Business, Allied Health Sciences, College of Law and Marian Spencer Hall. New life for Fifth Third Arena, Kowalewski Hall and Probasco Auditorium. New vision for Digital Futures, Clifton Court Hall, Calhoun Hall and Siddall Hall. The power of Impact Home to nearly 47,000 students, 10,500 faculty and staff and 330,000 alumni. Annual budget of $1.6 billion and a $1.8 billion endowment. Among the world’s largest service-learning programs. Put it all together, and UC has an economic impact of $4.2 billion and counting. $4.2B ...and counting The power of Integrity The poet Wendell Berry says it best: What we stand for is what we stand on. From taking a knee to standing for justice, our community has been at its best when it has fought for the rights of others. The power of Everybody Opened Marian Spencer Hall. Launched Marian Spencer Scholars Program. Welcomed most diverse class. Unveiled permanent installation for UC’s first three African American graduates. Opened 1MPACT House. Named “Diversity Champion” by Insight Into Diversity. Building new center for identity and inclusion. To my core, I believe that organizations are at their best when the culture is owned, not rented. — President Neville Pinto, 2017 Inaugural Address next lives here next lives here Photo credits All photos by University of Cincinnati except: Innovation: Interior by Brad Feinknopf Discovery: Image courtesy of Terrex Development & Construction Generosity: by Michael E. Keating/UC Foundation. Perseverance: (in order of appearance) by Kareem Elgazzar/The Enquirer / USA Today Network; by Ian Johnson/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images; by Andrew Hancock Place: Exterior of 5th/3rd by Chris Radcliffe/UC Foundation Impact: Mural by Michael E. Keating/UC Foundation Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top