Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Brain Facts The brain is a source of wonder and mystery. Browse through these resources to find out more about what we know, as well as what we don’t know. What is Alzheimer’s disease? Alzheimer’s disease is a leading cause of death among older adults in the U.S. What makes this disease so deadly? What are the risk factors associated with Alzheimer’s disease? Watch this SciToons video to learn more. Watch now Cold light What is the difference between bioluminescence, fluorescence, and phosphorescence? Hint: One is light that is produced by a chemical reaction inside or nearby a living thing when a luciferase enzyme breaks down a small molecule luciferin. This chemical reaction is being used by NSF NeuroNex Technology Hub researchers at Brown University, Central Michigan University, and The University of California in San Diego to better image and control brain activity. Watch this video created by Brown undergraduate and NeuroNex trainee, Raisa Khan, and learn more at bioluminescencehub.org. Watch now What is context-dependent memory? Have you ever sat down to take a test and completely forgotten what you had studied, or opened your fridge and not remembered what you wanted to get? This can be explained by a phenomenon known as context-dependent memory. Watch this SciToons video to learn more. Watch now What are neural networks? Have you ever wondered how your social media apps recognize who’s who in your pictures? Watch this SciToons video on machine learning and neural networks to find out. Watch now How does your brain see the world? Did you know that your brain sees more than you do? When you look at the world around you, some of what you see gets processed consciously, but other information gets processed without you being aware of it. Information about what you see and how to interact with it are processed in two separate visual pathways. While you may not notice the difference, peculiar examples of brain damage or optical illusions show us that the two streams are separate. Watch this SciToons video to learn more about dual stream processing. Watch now Population Engineering | Gene Drive by CRISPR-CAS9 The CRISPR-CAS9 genome editing technology is opening up previously inconceivable possibilities for the manipulation of organisms. Our ethical discussion appears to be far behind the pace of technological development. In this SciToons video, learn how CRISPR-CAS9 can be used to change entire species using the concept of Gene Drive. Watch now What happens to the brain during a concussion? What happens when you have a concussion? Concussions are also called mild traumatic brain injuries. You might be wondering: how do these types of injuries occur? Watch this SciToons video to find out what happens in the brain during and after a concussion. Watch now Can you recognize a stroke? Stroke is the leading cause of disability in American adults, and the sooner a stroke is treated, the less likely it is to cause permanent damage to the brain and body. Watch this SciToons video to learn about the common signs of stroke. Watch now What is BL-OG? BL-OG is a neuroscience research technique that combines BioLuminescence with OptoGenetics. When BL-OG is used in neurons, it can activate or silence their activity and can cause changes in behavior. In other words, BL-OG can be used to control neurons and behavior, and researchers can see light emitted from their tissue of interest when it is activated or silenced. Read More BrainFacts.org (by the Society for Neuroscience) BrainFacts.org is an authoritative source of information about the brain and nervous system for the public. The brain is the most complex biological structure in the known universe. It is a topic rich with exciting new discoveries, continuing profound unknowns, and critical implications for individuals, families, and societies. BrainFacts.org is an initiative of the Society for Neuroscience, the Kavli Foundation, and the Gatsby Charitable Foundation. Read More Knowing Neurons Knowing Neurons is an award-winning website by young neuroscientists. They make neuroscience accessible to anyone interested in learning about the brain. Delve into the mind via stories, infographics, interviews, and more! Read More National Institute of Mental Health – Statistics Did you know that over 18 percent of all U.S. adults and almost 50 percent of adolescents experienced mental illness in the past year? These are just two of the statistics recently released by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) on the prevalence and treatment of different mental illnesses in the U.S. population. The NIMH website includes detailed statistics and interactive graphs for depression, autism, post-traumatic stress disorders, and many other mental illnesses. Read More Mental Health - Brain Basics Brain Basics provides information on how the brain works, how mental illnesses are disorders of the brain, and ongoing research that helps us better understand and treat disorders. Read More Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top