Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management University Event and Conference Services Show/Hide Services Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Fees & Labor Rates Related Services Events Toolkit Virtual Events Planning Guide Step by Step Planning Guide Facilities Fees & Labor Rates Visiting Guest and Dignitaries Campus Event Venues Campus Partners Commencement Departmental Ceremonies Events Policies Postering and Publicity About Us Staff See What We Do Virtual Event Gallery Volunteer with us Contact Us Presidential Host Program Planon For Brown Departments Event Managers are experts on executing successful events on the Brown campus. They support major University events such as Commencement, Convocation and Family Weekend and provide assistance to Brown academic and administrative departments with the planning and implementation of their programs. The level of support is determined after an initial meeting with the client to assess the specific needs of the event. In the event that an Event Manager is unable to assist directly, we offer consultation services. For more information about working with an Event Manager, please fill out an Inquiry Form. Levels of Event Management Our team can provide full event management assistance for events with complex logistics, events expecting a large number of attendees or ones that feature prominent speakers or visiting dignitaries. If your event fits these criteria or has the possibility of significant impact on the University's image, please contact Event Management to work with our team. For events that do not meet these criteria, we offer consulting services to provide best practices and the tools to make your event a success. If you are interested in working with our team, please fill out our Inquiry Form and a team member will be in touch about your event. Services We Provide A professional event manager can help navigate the policies and procedures related to producing an event on the Brown campus. They can provide expert advice on many aspects of event planning at Brown. The following is a small sample of our expertise: Budgeting Menu Planning Audio/Visual Services Event Space Selection Event Security Rental Equipment Event Design Registration Services Transportation Guest Management Publicity Graphic Design Consultation Fees: UECS reserves the right to assess a 10% Event Planning Service Fee for their services for third party events. A third party event is one sponsored by an organization that does not hold a University controlled account. Please visit the third party event page for more information. The Event Planning Service fee does not apply to events or activities that are fully sponsored by Brown and have no involvement with a third party organization. Event Support Request Event Management Inquiry Event Management Virtual Events For Brown Departments For Other Organizations & Individuals Event Support Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of University Event & Conference Services Brown University 295 Lloyd Ave., Box 1941 Providence, RI 02912 Conferences & Event Support: Phone: (401) 863-3100 Fax: (401) 863-1943 Office Hours: 8:30AM-5:00PM FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat