Skip Navigation. Skip to content Donate Subscribe Report Hate-Bias Our Team Diversity and Inclusion Staff Diversity Officers Equity Council Resources All Resources Accessibility Bias Resources Campus Demographic Data View the Campus Demographic Data on irpa.umd.edu Land Acknowledgment Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct Strategic Plan for Diversity View the Strategic Plan for Diversity on issuu.com Bias Support Bias Incident Support Services Hate-Bias Response Team Bias Incident Response Protocol Stop the Hate trainings Frequently Asked Questions Bias Resources Bias Dashboard Training & Initiatives Request Training & Education Diversity Training Words of Engagement Anti Racism Teach-in Series #UMDSolidarity Signal Boost Anti-Racism Toolkit TerrapinSTRONG Jewish Identity & Antisemitism Panel Series Reports Critical Issues from Black Student Leaders BISS Annual Report 2018-2019 Campus Climate Study Final Report Download a PDF of the Campus Climate Study Final Report Climate Study Interactive Results Recommendations and Commonalities Climate Study Preliminary Report Joint Task Force Report Self-study Report News & Events News and Events Statements Collaborate About Mission and Vision O-D-I mission, vision, guiding principles and definitions ADA Compliance LGBT Equity Center Nyumburu Cultural Center Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Education For Prospective Students BSU-UMD Social Justice Alliance Black History Tour Donate Subscribe Report Hate-Bias Our Community Covid-19 Updates And Resources Learn More COVID-19 Information for UMD Introduction Mission: We provide leadership and expertise for helping the university achieve its diversity, equity and inclusion goals. Guided by social justice principles, we cultivate a vibrant learning and working community for all members. Vision: We envision a university that fully embraces diversity, equity and inclusion as morally right and educationally sound, and that centers the wellbeing of individuals and communities. ADA Compliance The ADA/504 coordinator's office addresses accessibility issues and reports of disability-based discrimination on campus, guiding the university's efforts to move beyond compliance and toward seamless access. ADA Compliance Bias Incident Support Services Learn more about Bias Incident Support Services Bias Incident Support Services responds to hate-bias incidents; it also educates and reports to the campus about those incidents while providing support, guidance, expertise, and advocacy to community members. Learn more about BISS Learn more about Bias Incident Support Services Diversity Training & Education Learn More about Diversity Training and Education DTE provides campus-wide and unit-specific opportunities for diversity training, education, programming, and engagement. Learn more about Training Learn More about Diversity Training and Education LGBTQ+ Equity Center The LGBTQ+ Equity Center works to establish and maintain a safe, inclusive, and welcoming campus environment for people of all sexual orientations and gender identities or expressions, serving UMD students, staff, faculty, and alumni. Learn about the Center Nyumburu Cultural Center Nyumburu is Swahili for “freedom house” and has served the UMD community since 1971 as a foundation for Black social, cultural and intellectual interaction. Learn about the Center Office Of Multi-ethnic Student Education Learn more about the Office Of Multi-Ethnic Student Education The Office of Multi-ethnic Student Education (OMSE) offers a variety of services and programs to enhance the learning experience and promote the academic success of underrepresented undergraduate students. Learn more about OMSE Learn more about the Office Of Multi-Ethnic Student Education TerrapinSTRONG All new students, faculty and staff participate in TerrapinSTRONG onboarding, which welcomes participants to the University of Maryland, introduces UMD history and traditions, and underscores our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. TerrapinSTRONG This struggle may be a moral one, or it may be a physical one and it may be both moral and physical, but [it] must be a struggle. Power concedes nothing without a demand. It never did and never will. Frederick Douglass Latest News New Staff in the Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct Wed. Oct 27, 2021 We have several new staff members who have joined the team in Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct: Angela Nastase, J.D. (she/her/hers) has joined ... Read More Read More: New Staff in the Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct Call to action: Stop the Hate workshops Wed. Sep 15, 2021 I believe our collective commitment to an inclusive campus has never been stronger. At the same time, I am keenly aware that instances of anti-Jewish, anti-Black and anti-LGBTQ+ hate continue to be present across the country and even on our own campus. Read More Read More: Call to action: Stop the Hate workshops Welcoming Our New TerrapinSTRONG Program Manager Mon. Aug 23, 2021 President Pines announced a university-wide TerrapinSTRONG onboarding program on his first day as president to affirm our mission, culture, and values as a diverse, united, proud, respectful, inclusive, accountable and empowered community. Read More Read More: Welcoming Our New TerrapinSTRONG Program Manager Read all News Events Gallery Exhibition - Get Out the Vote: Suffrage and Disenfranchisement in America Thu. Sep 09, 2021 10:00 AM – to Fri. Jul 01, 2022 4:00 PM Hornbake Library Exhibit Gallery This exhibition explores the history of voting rights in America--beginning with pre-revolutionary documents and continuing through to the 2020 elections. ... Learn More Learn More: Gallery Exhibition - Get Out the Vote: Suffrage and Disenfranchisement in America Digital Accessibility Empathy Lab (and scavenger hunt!) Thu. Jun 23, 2022 1:30 PM – to 3:00 PM Online In celebration of global accessibility awareness, join us for the University of Maryland's first digital accessibility empathy lab, where we will be ... Learn More Learn More: Digital Accessibility Empathy Lab (and scavenger hunt!) View More Events View more events on the Campus Calendar I am playing with my Self, I am playing with the world's soul, I am the dialogue between my Self and el espíritu del mundo. I change myself, I change the world. Gloria Anzaldúa Report a Hate-Bias incident The University of Maryland values diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive and respectful campus for students, faculty and staff. Acts of bias and intimidation go against our university’s core values. If you have been impacted by and/or have witnessed a hate-bias incident, you can file a report by completing the online form. You may also contact UMPD by calling: Emergency: 911 or 301-405-3333 - Mobile Phone #3333 Non-Emergency: 301-405-3555 File a Report Report a Hate Bias Incident Bias Incident Response Protocol Report accommodations complaint Office of Diversity and Inclusion (Main Office) 2417 Marie Mount Hall College Park, MD 20742 DiverseTerps@umd.edu 301.405.2838 call: 301-405-2838 UMD Homepage