Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan Printers, Copiers & Scanners Locations for printing, copying and scanning services can be found here. Note that certain locations are only open to specific colleges and majors. Prices for services will vary at each location. Printers The Campus has black & white, color, wireless and even 3D printing options. Some labs are restricted to students within the college or program. Printer Locations Wireless Printing Digital Print Services Digital Print Services, located on the second floor of Pollak Library North (PLN-220), offers specialized printing services such as large format printing, business cards, etc. They also offer binding, copying, and scanning services. Students can also upload print jobs via their Digital Storefront 24/7 which is accessible through the campus portal. Copiers If you need to copy something you can find machines in the Pollak Library and McCarthy Hall. Pollak Library Black and White & Color Copiers Digital Print Services – 1st Floor South (next to the elevator) Digital Print Services – 2nd Floor North (PLN-220) McCarthy Hall Black and White Copiers Opportunity Center MH-488 (open lab) Scanners If you need a scanner there are several on campus to use. Scanners for public use can be found: Pollak Library Digital Print Services- 2nd Floor North (PLN-220) University Hall Disability Support Services- UH-113 (DSS Students Only) This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.