Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Biomedical Engineering Home About Future Students Current Students Research Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home Welcome from the Chair Mission, Vision, & Diversity Statements News Open positions Take Action Biomedical Engineering Degrees Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Biomedical Engineering Welcome Welcome from the Department Chair Welcome to the Department of Biomedical Engineering (BME) in the Herff College of Engineering at The University of Memphis where we are shaping the health of tomorrow! This is the era where engineering and life sciences are converging, leading to many exciting and revolutionary discoveries and advances in the biomedical engineering discipline. Our faculty and students are making significant contributions in science, engineering and medicine in areas such as new medical devices, anti-infective biomaterials, regeneration of tissues, biomechanical models, imaging technologies and biosensors, that improve medical treatments, diagnosis, and therapies for improving patient quality of life. Our BME faculty are known for both their important contributions to the biomedical engineering discipline and their passion for teaching and inspiring students to explore new ways to keep people healthy. Our mission is to educate students from diverse backgrounds through a multidisciplinary approach that integrates life sciences, clinical medicine and engineering for careers that innovate and advance health care in industry, research, and health professions. Our research programs address major challenges in medicine and healthcare that address both fundamental questions in science and engineering and translating new discoveries to clinical use. Our programs provide many opportunities that enrich both the academic curricula and student professional development through internships, research, leadership and outreach activities. We recognize too that a diverse and an inclusive environment enriches learning, fuels discovery and creativity, and launches innovation. We are committed to welcoming and fostering a diverse, equitable, inclusive community. We are located in a multicultural vibrant city that is an epi-center of healthcare, biomedical device industry and entrepreneurship. This fusion of culture, industry and healthcare provide numerous opportunities for networking, professional career development, and research and entrepreneur partnerships. These interactions and collaborations have contributed to the success of our faculty and students, spurred innovation and driven the economic engine of the Memphis region. I would like to thank all our faculty, staff, alumni, and students for their support and commitment to excellence in their academic, research and professional pursuits and invite you to explore these pages to learn more about our BME programs. We welcome the opportunity for you to join and contribute to our enthusiastic and dynamic BME family at The University of Memphis! Sincerely, Dr. Joel Bumgardner Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering >Click here for the Mission, Vision and Diversity Statement for the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the Herff College of Engineering. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/31/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.