Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? How Do I...Manage an Award? How Do I Determine the Life-to-Date Expenditures on an Individual Grant or Multiple Grants? A Sponsored Award Budget to Actuals Report can be run which will provide the project budget, current months expenses, fiscal-to-date, and project-to-date expenditures in the report view. It also includes cost sharing expenses, outstanding obligations, and balance available. Please see the document below to run this type of report. Budget to Actuals Report Guide.pdf Report allegations of research misconduct? Please see Research Misconduct Policy. Get assistance with regulatory compliance questions? Please see ORI staff directory. Find courses to fulfill Responsible Conduct of Research Requirements? Please see Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR). Submit my Conflict of Interest Annual Assurance? Please see Electronic COI Assurance and Reporting. Request an export control license? Please see Export Control FAQs. Submit an IACUC protocol? Please see Submitting an IACUC protocol, amendment, or continuation. Submit an IRB protocol? Please see IRB Forms. Does Brown offer any courses that fulfill the NIH RCR Requirement? Brown offers several courses that meet the NIH RCR requirements. Click here to review available courses, including refresher course options. Learn the difference between Grants and Contracts (managed by the Office of Sponsored Projects) and Gifts (managed by the Advancement Office)? There can be a fine line between Gifts (managed by Brown's Advancement Office) and Grants and Contracts (managed by the Office of Sponsored Projects). To make the correct categorization, here is a checklist to consider: Is the funding from an Individual (not an organization) ? if Y = Gift Is the funding from federal, state, or local government agency or a flow-through from one of these agencies ? if Y = Grant/Contract Is the funding in response to a proposal with a specific statement of work or defined deliverables ? if Y = Grant/Contract Is there a line item budget ? if Y = Grant/Contract Are there budget restrictions ? (e.g, prior approval required for re-budgeting from one line item to another ) if Y = Grant/Contract Are unexpended (i.e., unspent) funds or property required to be returned to the sponsor at the end of the project ? if Y = Grant/Contract Do any terms of the award address patents, copyrights, rights in data or licensing of inventions ? if Y = Grant/Contract Do any terms of the award require detailed financial reporting beyond a basic summary of expenditures ? if Y = Grant/Contract Do the terms of the award allow for audit of expenses or technical/programmatic activity ? if Y = Grant/Contract Do the terms of the award require indemnification of sponsor by Brown ? if Y = Grant/Contract Please contact your OSP Grant & Contract Administrator or Grant & Contract Accountant if you'd like further assistance with this, or any question you may have regarding your research support. How do I arrange for an account to capture allocable and allowable expenses prior to Brown's receipt of my award document? Please see the OSP Operating Procedure: ADVANCE ACCOUNT REQUEST for more details. What is the FDP? This article will shed some light on the who, what, when, where, why, and how of the Federal Demonstration Partnership (FDP). What is the NIH Salary Cap? A legislatively-mandated provision limiting the direct salary (also known as salary or institutional base salary, but excluding any fringe benefits and F&A costs) for individuals working on NIH grants, cooperative agreement awards, and extramural research and development contracts. The salary limitation rate applies to any individual whose salary is charged directly to awards from these agencies. For more FAQs on NIH Salary Cap please see the NIH Salary Cap FAQs webpage. How do I cost share salaries and fringe benefits in Workday? Please refer to the Cost Sharing Reference Guide maintained by the Controller's Office. Award amounts in COEUS and Workday differ. Why? For our continuing NIH award, the COEUS obligated total and the Workday total on the Sponsored Award Budget to Actuals are different. It appears as though the Workday budget includes the carry-forward amount from the previous segment of the grant and the COEUS record does not. Should the award amount in the two systems be the same? In cases where funds have been carried over from a prior segment, the Coeus record and the Workday budget on the Sponsored Award Budget vs. Actuals report will not align. Coeus is our 'official' record of funding and therefore, we cannot 'double dip', so to speak by counting funds twice. Instead the approved carry forward amount is added into the Workday budget and also added as a billing limit 'override', so we can invoice up to this full amount (see screenshot below with the authorized amount vs. the billing limit override). In this case, the award to date is $3,302,863 with approved carry forward of $69,109.86 from the previous segment, so our billing limit override is $3,371,972.86. On the reverse side, if a carryforward request in a current segment is not approved, we do not reduce the award amount in Coeus (unless the sponsor explicitly deobligates those funds). Instead, we restrict those funds by reducing the award budget in Workday and reducing the billing limit override in Workday. Example: Award comes in at $60,000.00. Carryforward of $25,000.00 is not approved. Coeus record remains as $60,000.00 obligated for the award, however, the Workday budget is reduced to $35,000.00 and we add in a billing limit override at $35,000.00, so that we don't invoice the sponsor for any portion of the restricted funds. How do I request carryover funds if my award has an annual budget restriction? Use the template letter, completed with information on why carryover exists, in what amount and how the funds will be used. Gather the PI signature and forward to OSP or BMRA for submission to the funding agency. OSP should verify the amount of carryover prior to sending to an external sponsor. Note that the request must be made and approval received before any charges to the unspent funds are made. For an excellent summary please see this NIH web page. back to all How do I know the authorized signatory to sign my proposal, award, agreement or contract? Please visit the Office of General Counsel's website, and consult their Contracts Signature Delegation guide. In this guide, research is discussed on pp 13-14, and it is linked at their page's end (updated 9/25/19). How Do I Request a No-Cost Extension of my Federally funded project? Please see: No Cost Extension (NCE) Policy by Sponsor Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? Find Funding Prepare a Grant Proposal Manage an Award Other Suggest Additional Questions 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat