Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Distinctive Opportunities Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Graduate School Skip to Navigation Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Meet current and previous BEST scholars from 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2019 The Brown Executive Scholars Training (BEST) Program is designed to expose doctoral students and master’s students to careers in higher education administration. Every fall eight to 10 graduate students are chosen to participate in this 12-week mentored, education and training program. This program was established in 2010 and is sponsored by the Graduate School. Purpose To help prepare graduate students for future leadership roles in higher education administration through a semester-long, mentored education and training experience. Objectives Educate graduate students about university administration and the roles and responsibilities of senior administrators. Expose graduate students to administrators through one-on-one mentoring relationships. Enhance the leadership skills of graduate students through engaged discussion and professional development activities. Key Activities Attend weekly BEST Program seminars and roundtables (weekly meetings are most often scheduled for Thursdays of the week; depending on speaker availability, some lunch seminars may be on Wednesdays.) Meet at least once each month with assigned administrative sponsors Create a career development plan Complete a mini-practicum project (optional) Attendance Scholars will be allowed two excused absences throughout the duration of the program. Scholars with excessive absences may be dismissed from the program and will not receive certificates of completion. The program will run from late January to late April. Roundtables and Professional Development Scholars will spend up to 30 minutes reflecting on topics related to each seminar either before or after the presentation. These discussions will be facilitated by BEST Program staff. Scholars may also engage in professional development activities such as CV-resume writing and receive tips on how to identify and highlight transferable skills. Administrative Sponsors Scholars will be paired with administrators from key areas of the university to learn about their specific role, the function of their area and to receive advice and support related to their own pursuit of a career in academic administration. Scholars are expected to meet with administrative sponsors for no less than one hour at least once each month and may engage in an optional mini-practicum project. Hear from program alums about their experiences! Mai Hunt, PhD Student in Hispanic Studies Ben Wilks, doctoral candidate in Biomedical Engineering Emily Drennan '19 PhD in Egyptology & Assyriology Selection Senior administrative staff from across the University will help select a diverse and cross-disciplinary cohort of promising scholars. Meet previous BEST scholars from 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Evaluation Scholars will complete an overall program survey. Eligibility Applicants must be an advanced master’s student or doctoral student. Master’s degree students must have completed at least one semester of full time coursework in their current graduate program prior to the beginning of the BEST program. Application Requirements: Student Application Complete through UFunds, See under “Graduate School Distinctive Opportunities” – application to go live October 22. Components to prepare: CV or resume Personal statement of 500 words or less that outlines the applicant’s educational and professional career aspirations and states how participation in the BEST Program will assist in meeting those goals Statement that ranks the top three areas of interest from the following: Academic Affairs, Diversity, Education and Training, Faculty Affairs, Governance, Student Support Components to request: Through UFunds: Message of support from yourDGS (affirming student standing) Message of recommendation from a faculty advisor, thesis/dissertation committee member, or department chair who can affirm why participation in the program will be valuable for you (If your DGS can affirm student standing and recommend you to the program, this may be sent as one combined message.) These messages of support should be emailed separately to [email protected]. For any questions, please contact Kirk Robinson. Application deadline - extended: December 3 at 5:00 pm Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education Travel Research Funding Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Interdisciplinary Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Effective Performance Workshops Doctoral Certificates Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants