Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Types of Aid Grants Federal PELL Grant Federal PELL Grant The Federal Pell Grant program provides need-based grants to low income undergraduate students and certain post-baccalaureate students to promote access to postsecondary education Eligibility Requirements show exceptional financial need have a high school diploma or a General Education Development (GED) Certificate, pass a test approved by the U.S. Department of Education, or meet other standards your state establishes that are approved by the U.S. Department of Education be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen have a valid Social Security Number make satisfactory academic progress register with the Selective Service, if required. Award Amount PELL award maximums for the 2017-2018 award year are $5,920. You can receive only one PELL Grant in an award year. You may not receive PELL Grant funds from more than one school at a time. Maximum Aggregate Pell Grant Eligibility Students are limited to 18 semesters of full-time payments or the equivalent. Students can track their remaining Pell Grant eligibility on the National Student Loan Data Base at www.nslds.ed.gov or through their Student Aid Report (SAR). Transfer Students When determining Pell Grant eligibility for transfer students, aid received at another college within the award year will be used to calculate the remaining Pell Grant eligibility for the award year. Application Process Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Grants Federal PELL Grant Tuition Equalization Grant (TEG) Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share