Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar The William Davidson School Academics The William Davidson School Message from the Dean Degree Programs Professional Leadership Programs Davidson Administration The William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education trains the leaders who will shape the lives and communities of the Jewish people for decades to come. The William Davidson School is the largest pluralistic school of Jewish education in North America. For over a century, we have graduated leaders who go on to define the field of Jewish education and shape Jewish experience in schools, start-ups, congregations, nonprofits, and beyond. Study at The William Davidson School The William Davidson School provides an unparalleled academic experience for leaders in Jewish education. Our partnerships with key institutions in the Jewish and education worlds ensure that students at The William Davidson School have access to the most comprehensive catalog of programs and projects. We offer: Academics Our master’s and doctoral students are encouraged to tailor their studies to their specific interests, deepening their training in Jewish education and developing the skills that will allow them to contribute significantly to the field. Learn about our degree programs Professional Training Our certificate and professional development programs help prepare educators as they grow into the future leaders of our communities. Learn more about our professional training opportunities Why The William Davidson School? Leadership and Influence: Graduates of The William Davidson School are highly sought after for teaching and leadership roles. Our alumni hold influential and inspiring positions that span entrepreneurial nonprofits, established institutions, day schools, camps, and more. Diversity and Community: The William Davidson School welcomes students from all Jewish backgrounds. We believe that our students’ diversity strengthens the Jewish community, and we are united by our passion for Jewish education and our vision for the future. Scholarship and Spirituality: Students at The William Davidson School find a balance between academic rigor and spiritual leadership. Our focus on the critical study of texts, viewed always in historical context as well as in relation to modern Jewish life, prepares our students to bring Jewish wisdom and wonder to life for future generations. Get in Touch For more information about the application process, as well as the range of fellowships and scholarships available to prospective students, contact the Admissions Office at edschool@jtsa.edu. To learn more about The William Davidson School, please contact us at davidsoninfo@jtsa.edu. Academic Calendar View calendar SHARE THIS PAGE LEARN MORE ABOUT THE WILLIAM DAVIDSON SCHOOL ADMISSIONS PROCEDURES LEARN MORE Request Admissions Information from The William Davidson School We’ll send more details about our programs and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Program of Interest Please Select OneMAEdDExecutive Doctoral ProgramNon-Degree Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message