NCALM - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Research NCALM National Center for Airborne Laser Mapping Charting the Future. Pioneering the use of light detection and ranging (LiDAR) — a surveying method which deploys thousands of laser pulses per second to produce richly detailed, three-dimensional topographical maps — researchers at NCALM have found a previously unknown ancient settlement in Central America, measured the impact of a warming climate in Antarctica and searched for crumbling levies, eroding coastal areas and other evidence of the enivronmental impacts of the 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Continue to NCALM Objectives Provide research-quality airborne light detection and ranging (LiDAR) observations to the scientific community. Advance the state of the art in airborne laser mapping. Offer the only graduate program in the world for Geosensing Systems Engineering and Sciences (GSES) to give scientists LiDAR training to tackle industry challenges. The Lost City of Ciudad Blanca NCALM might be best known for its work in some of the most remote corners of the world. In Honduras, researchers used airbone LiDAR to map a remote region of the rainforest in 2012 and uncovered new evidence of a lost ancient civilization. Their findings were verified when NCALM researcher Juan Carlos Fernandez Diaz returned to the site on foot, accompanied by Honduran and American archeologists, a documentary film crew and a reporter from National Geographic. Learn More Featured Stories Grad Student's Wave Research Earns AGU Award GSES graduate student Andrea Albright will be introducing a new application of LiDAR — the study of waves and coastal erosion — to an audience of hundreds of esteemed peers at the AGU conference, where her 3D research images will be making waves on NASA’s big screen. LiDAR data for McMurdo Dry Valleys in Antarctica OpenTopography has released lidar point cloud and DEM data covering over 2,700 km2 of the McMurdo Dry Valleys in Antarctica. The data was collected by NCALM in 2014-2015 and includes Taylor, Wright, Pearse, Victoria, Mckelvey, Barwick, and Valham valleys. New NCALM Dataset from New Zealand now available OpenTopography has released a dataset from the South Island of New Zealand. The data are part of the Marlborough Fault System and were collected by NCALM in March, 2014. Dr. Preston Hartzell joins NCALM and the GSES As Research Assistant Professor, Hartzell will be working closely with Dr. Craig Glennie and the USACE Cold Regions Research & Engineering Laboratory on related work in instrument and data calibration and multi-instrument integration. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies