Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Digital Forensics (MS) Manage Complex Cybersecurity Threats and Help Solve Digital Technology Crimes. Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Protect Your Organization by Detecting, Investigating and Defeating Cybercrime The master’s in digital forensics program provides you with the latest techniques and hands-on approaches to analyzing computers and other types of digital media. The program’s coursework examines the various methods used to determine whether something has been used for illegal or unauthorized activities, or has fallen victim to an illegal attack. Upon graduating, you’ll have the knowledge and skills required to work as an examiner in the field or continue on to a doctoral degree or law school. Gain employment in a number of industries from government to law enforcement to the private sector. This program also prepares you for certification exams, including CompTIA A+, GIAC Security Essentials and CompTIA Network+. Designed to help you balance school, work and life, the UCF Online digital forensics program is available 100 percent online. Please note that if you choose the thesis option, you will be required to have a one-time on-campus thesis defense before you can graduate. UCF also provides a Computer Forensics Graduate Certificate, which requires completing 12 credit hours. The Master of Science in Digital Forensics degree is a collaborative effort between various UCF academic departments — Computer Science, Forensic Science of Chemistry, Criminal Justice and Legal Studies — and the National Center for Forensic Science. The National Center for Forensic Science is a State of Florida Type II Center and a member of the National Institute of Justice Forensic Resource Network of the Department of Justice, serving the needs of state and local law enforcement and forensic scientists. Request Information Highlights Ranked No. 1 online master’s in computer forensics program in 2020 by intelligent.com. Named one of the "Most Affordable Online Programs in Cyber Security in 2018" by cybersecuritydegrees.com. Job growth for digital forensics grads is projected to increase 12% nationwide. Median pay for digital forensics grads is $103,000. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Computer Forensics I Explore legal issues regarding seizure and chain of custody, and technical issues in acquiring computer evidence. You’ll examine popular file systems, as well as reporting issues in the legal system. Incident Response Technologies Cover a range of topics related to security incidents and intrusions, including identifying and categorizing incidents, responding to incidents, log analysis, network traffic analysis and tools. Malware and Software Vulnerability Analysis Analyze computer malicious codes, such as virus, worm, trojan, spyware, and software vulnerabilities, such as buffer-overflow. View all master’s in digital forensics courses. Digital Forensics Skills You’ll Learn Prepare for a career in digital forensics examination, forensic tool development, tool verification, and validation, security and forensics administration, or pursue advanced studies. Gain the communication skills, both oral and written, to become an effective problem solver as well as an expert witness and forensic examiner. Participate as an effective team member or team leader in digital evidence investigations. Career Opportunities Computer Forensic Examiner Computer Forensic Investigator Electronic Discovery Incident Response Examiner Information Security Analyst Malware Analyst Admission Requirements UCF’s Master of Science in Digital Forensics program is designed for those with a bachelor’s degree in computer science (CS), computer engineering, information technology (IT) or a closely related field. Students with a BS and/or MS in areas other than a computer-related field need to show either they have taken some basic CS/IT courses or training, or have working experience in CS or IT or digital forensics field. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements and the following: Resume Statement of educational, research and professional career objectives Three letters of recommendation Request Information News and Updates Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Digital Forensics (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Digital Forensics (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The mission of the MSDF degree program is to provide a quality graduate education in science and practices of digital forensics, to prepare the students for digital forensics jobs, and to prepare the students for a lifetime of learning. The objectives of the program include the following: To give MSDF graduates the knowledge and skills necessary to participate as an effective team member or team leader in digital evidence investigations To prepare MSDF graduates for professional careers in digital forensics examination, forensic tool development, tool verification and validation, security and forensics administration To prepare MSDF graduates with the knowledge and skills to pursue advanced studies and research in computer technology or computer crime-related disciplines To equip MSDF graduates with the communication skills, both oral and written, to become an effective problem solver as well as an effective communicator as an expert forensic examiner and expert witness The Digital Forensics MS degree is comprised of 30 hours of study beyond the bachelor's degree with required, intensive specialization in topics related to digital forensics. The degree program prepares students, including working professionals, who will pursue the degree on a part-time basis to gain the knowledge and skills required to work as an examiner in the field. The program may also be taken by those who have an interest in scientific applications and research in the field, and who would like to continue to a doctoral degree program or law school after completion. The program offers both a thesis option (6 credit hours) or an opportunity to complete two additional courses (6 credit hours) selected from the Restricted Electives. At least one-half of the credit hours must be at the 6000 level. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Please note: Digital Forensics (MS) may be completed fully online. Most courses are either online courses or have both in-campus and online course sessions. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. It could be difficult to satisfy these requirement since many courses in this program only have online format. Please contact Program Coordinator to discuss possible admission issue. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Program Prerequisites Undergraduate articulation courses may be required for students with BS and/or MS degrees in fields other than a computer-related field. If you are not in STEM related BS program, you need to show either you have taken some basic CS/IT courses, or have working experience in CS or IT or digital forensics field. If you want to take some prerequisite courses, you can take two to three of the following courses in UCF or equivalent courses in other places: Basic CS knowledge: COP 3502: Computer Science I Basic networking knowledge: CNT 3004 Computer Network Concepts, or CNT 4703C Design and Implementation of Computer Communication Networks, or CNT 4704 Analysis of Computer Communication Networks Basic Computer architecture: CDA 3103: Computer Logic and Organization Programming course, such as: COP 3223C Introduction to Programming with C, or COP 3330 Intro to OO Programming with Java Courses taken to correct deficiencies cannot be used to satisfy minimum degree requirements. Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete the following: CGS5131 - Computer Forensics I: Seizure and Examination of Computer Systems (3) CHS5504 - Topics in Forensic Science (3) CIS6207 - The Practice of Digital Forensics (3) CNT6418 - Computer Forensics II (3) Restricted Elective Courses 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Computing and Technology Complete at least 2 of the following: CAP6133 - Advanced Topics in Computer Security and Computer Forensics (3) CNT6519 - Wireless Security and Forensics (3) CAP6135 - Malware and Software Vulnerability Analysis (3) CIS6386 - Operating Systems and File System Forensics (3) CIS6395 - Incident Response Technologies (3) CNT5410L - Cyber Operations Lab (3) IDC5602 - Cybersecurity: A Multidisciplinary Approach (3) IDC6600 - Emerging Cyber Issues (3) IDC6601 - Behavioral Aspects of Cybersecurity (3) Criminal Justice Complete at least 1 of the following: CCJ5015 - The Nature of Crime (3) CCJ5456 - The Administration of Justice (3) CCJ6074 - Investigative and Intelligence Analysis: Theory and Methods (3) CCJ6704 - Research Methods in Criminal Justice (3) CCJ6706 - Data Analysis in Criminal Justice I (3) CJE6688 - Cyber Crime and Criminal Justice (3) CJL6568 - Law and Social Control (3) Legal Studies and Electronic Discovery Complete at least 1 of the following: CHS5596 - The Forensic Expert in the Courtroom (3) CHS5518 - The Forensic Collection and Examination of Digital Evidence (3) PLA5587 - Current Issues in Cyberlaw (3) CIS6206 - Electronic Discovery for Digital Forensics Professionals (3) Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: CAP 6971 Thesis The College of Engineering and Computer Science requires that all thesis defense announcements are approved by the student's adviser and posted on the college's website and on the Events Calendar at the College of Graduate Studies website at least two weeks before the defense date. Nonthesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Students not interested in a thesis can instead take one elective course and the "CDA 6946: Internship" course, or take two electives. The electives can be any courses from the list of Restricted Electives above, or the following electives. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Statement of educational, research, and professional career objectives. Résumé. One letter of recommendation. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. The GRE is not required for admission into this program. Application Deadlines Digital Forensics MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida