Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Apply Degree Outlines Audition Information Scholarships and Assistantships Tuition & Financial Aid International Students Admissions FAQ Admissions Events Arrange a Visit Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Admissions Undergraduate Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarships Acadmic Scholarships Students who apply before December 1 will receive preferred consideration for university-wide academic scholarships. Performance Scholarships The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music awards numerous talent-based performance scholarships each year to incoming undergraduate students. This award may be renewed for up to 8 semesters unless otherwise noted and combined with your existing merit and need-based aid, up to the cost of attendance as defined by the Office of Financial Aid. Dates & Deadlines Early Action: December 3. Students who are fully admitted by December 3 will receive an admissions and scholarship decision before the winter break. Scholarship Deadline: March 1. Students who complete their audition by March 1 will receive fullest consideration for music awards. Scholarship notifications are sent separately via email in mid-to-late March. School of Music Chamber Players Program Students who are selected for the Chamber Players Program provide leadership among their peers, hone their skills as performers, and serve as ambassadors for the School of Music while performing in three distinguished chamber groups - the Beale String Quartet, Magnolia Woodwind Quintet, and the Central Avenue Brass Quintet. Students are most often top instrumental performers who, in addition to their regular academic and music curriculum, perform in a distinguished chamber ensemble for all four years of study. The Chamber Players Program is open to incoming music majors who are resident, non-resident or international applicants. The award covers the cost of full tuition up to 18-hours per semester. Students must be declared music majors and maintain all requirements for a music scholarship. The Chamber Players Program ensembles perform together for the duration of their studies, enabling each ensemble to prepare performance repertoire in great depth, and mature as an ensemble together. The time commitment for one of these distinguished chamber ensembles can be more than required of other ensembles in the School of Music and provides students a rare opportunity to learn how to develop programming, explore new repertoire, and interact with audiences, while performing as a cohesive group in the School of Music, within the community, at conferences, and for recording projects. Athletic Band Scholarships Eligibility varies based on a number of factors for students receiving School of Music scholarships. Contact the band office for more detail mss@memphis.edu or 901 678 2263. Academic Common Market Non-TN-Residents who reside in participating SREB partner states and who pursue concentrations in Jazz, Recording Technology, Music Business or Recording Technology may be eligible to receive a fee waiver from their state under the Academic Common Market program. These students should review the requirements and instructions at: https://www.sreb.org/academic-common-market Private Donor/Endowed Awards Private donor/endowment scholarships have specific requirements that are determined by the Donor. Several of these awards require a separate application through the Tiger Scholarship Manager. For some awards, recipients are confirmed by faculty nomination and a committee review process. View a list of Donor/Endowed Awards on this page. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.