Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Research Works Here Scholarship & Innovation Skip to Section Research, Partnerships and Innovation UCF researchers drive intellectual capital and innovation to solve today’s most pressing problems. As a metropolitan research university, we promote economic development in the region by aiding in the transfer of technology and other discoveries between university and industry to create next-generation ideas and products. Our graduates, who benefit from working alongside our research faculty, also contribute to the economy by driving innovation through local company employment or by launching their own businesses. From nanoscience and simulation to healthcare and the environment, UCF researchers work together to have real-world impact, improving the lives of our students and community. Read about how the UCF 3D Print Lab is helping doctors navigate complex surgeries University Research Impact UCF researchers are committed to discovery and innovation. Each year, our researchers attract more than $200 million in grants, gifts and sponsored awards. But a dollar figure doesn’t tell the whole story. Research and scholarship are about the impact our work is having on our students, community, nation and around the globe. It’s about helping solve real-world problems that make a difference in people’s lives. In addition to supporting innovative research, we’re helping strengthen and diversify our local and state economy. $211.7M Sponsored research funding in 2021 146 Patent applications filed in 2019. 37 U.S. patents issued in 2020. 28 Licenses and options executives in 2020. 15 In 2020, 15 UCF students were named National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellows. 14 Fulbright Scholars from around the world choose UCF graduate programs to do their research. Show The World What You’re Working On Are you a faculty member or student conducting research at UCF? We want to hear from you! Tell Us About Your Research Tell Us About Your Research × Multidisciplinary Research Clusters UCF’s Faculty Cluster Initiative leverages our diverse talent, facilities, location and industry partnerships to foster the development of strong, interdisciplinary teams focused on solving today’s toughest scientific and societal challenges through teaching and research. Bringing together some of the brightest minds creates synergies among diverse disciplines to help generate research breakthroughs. Among the groups making the biggest gains are the Center for Research in Computer Vision, Florida Space Institute and Faculty Research Clusters. Comprised of faculty across disciplines, the nine clusters are focused on tackling thematic, global issues, including cybersecurity, coastal sustainability, and disability and aging. Explore Further Biionix (Prosthetic Interfaces) Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women Learn more about faculty clusters at UCF. Innovation in Action When research yields a discovery, what happens next? At the Office of Technology Transfer, our team helps UCF discoveries go public through intellectual property protection, marketing and licensing processes. The office connects UCF researchers with companies and entrepreneurs to take technology to market. By working together, we are able to make the greatest impact. In addition to collaborating on research and commercialization, we are focused on unprecedented results. UCF professors have been recognized for their innovation and invention by the establishment of a local chapter of the National Academy of Inventors. News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Science & Technology As Hurricane Season Kicks Off, UCF Researchers Working to Make Communities More Resilient More than a dozen researchers are working on a wide variety of research that looks to prepare, respond, and mitigate hurricane impacts in Florida and… Science & Technology ‘Brain-on-a-Chip’ Technology Advances Toward a New Form of Drug Screening Brain-on-a-chip simulated models hold the potential to revolutionize and accelerate the way new drugs are discovered. How to Hunt a Killer Explore the work being done by researchers at UCF and Arecibo Observatory that could help protect our planet from a fatal impact. Read More Serving our Faculty and Students UCF offers a host of resources that our faculty and student investigators can tap into. These include training and workshops, funding opportunities, and help in complying with federal and state regulations pertaining to research. Faculty Faculty are at the heart of any research institution. That’s why the UCF Office of Research offers several services to help support faculty. For example, the Office of Research works with faculty to submit sponsored-research proposals to federal and private agencies, provides workshops, seminars and training opportunities to help enhance grant success and administers research awards and oversees research integrity and compliance. Graduate Research Graduate students at UCF have access to renowned professors, talented mentors and state-of-the-art technology, and can take advantage of resources such as research seminars, discussion groups, professional development workshops and social events that support them as they progress through their studies. Undergraduate Research UCF professors engage students in their projects, giving them invaluable experience in the laboratory and in their chosen fields. The Office of Undergraduate Research and the Venture Accelerator create ideal environments for students, faculty and entrepreneurs to collaborate on research and provide business solutions. Local Research, Global Impact Strong relationships and a shared vision lead to successful partnerships right here in Central Florida. One such partner, the Florida High Tech Corridor, spans 23 counties and serves to attract and retain technology industries and a talented workforce in our area. UCF has solid relationships throughout the region that are built on mutual respect and common goals, and it’s clear that together we are making an impact. In nearby Central Florida Research Park, many of the 12,300+ employees work with UCF researchers and students on projects in the sciences, engineering, photonics and optics, modeling and simulation and health-related fields. And our Business Incubation Program, which provides startup companies with the incubator tools and support they need to become stable and high-growth enterprises, has helped create and sustain more than 6,200 local jobs and have had an impact of $2.48 billion on regional economic output. Research Centers and Initiatives Advanced Materials Processing and Analysis Center Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences at the UCF College of Medicine Business Incubation Program Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers Center for Research in Computer Vision Florida High Tech Corridor Council Florida Photonics Center of Excellence Florida Small Business Development Center Florida Solar Energy Center Florida Space Institute Institute for Simulation and Training Limbitless Solutions NanoScience Technology Center National Center for Forensic Science National Center for Integrated Coastal Research Townes Laser Institute University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida