In This Issue Lights, Camera, Action Premiering in February 2022, UCF will be featured on The College Tour, which was co-produced by a local film company staffed by alums. Strengthening Our Nation As America works to improve its security, UCF researchers are contributing by fortifying our infrastructure, advancing our technology and training the next generation who will carry on their charge. House Call Tom Weichart ’04MS reflects on his time as a nurse at the White House during the George W. Bush presidency. Connected Care A UCF alum’s healthcare app aims to alleviate stress for patients’ loved ones while keeping them informed. Getting Real Cutting-edge hologram technology is helping train UCF’s future healthcare professionals. Reaching for the Stars and Stripes UCF’s Lou Frey Institute and faculty are helping develop civic education standards to encourage engaged citizenship. Ahead of the Game The story behind how UCF’s Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy grew into an industry game changer. Picture-perfect Proteins A UCF researcher is developing new technologies to study protein movement in human cells in an effort to advance our ability to treat diseases. Back to Bouncin’ UCF’s 2021 season opener was one to remember with return to the full game day experience and the start of the Gus Malzahn era. Why I Still Believe in Magic George A. Kalogridis ’76 shares his journey of helping Walt Disney World open its doors 50 years ago as a busboy to eventually rising as one of its top executives. On Tap Hospitality management students learn the science behind America’s billion-dollar beer-brewing industry. On Campus — Fall 2021 From a Welcome Back Social to Hispanic Heritage Month observances, there was a lot to celebrate during the Fall 2021 semester. Supporting Surfside Responders Faculty members of UCF RESTORES helped support the mental health of first responders at the collapse of the Champlain Towers South condo building in Surfside, Florida. Close Back Forward Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Fall 2021 Strengthening Our Nation As America works to improve its security, UCF researchers are contributing by fortifying our infrastructure, advancing our technology and training the next generation who will carry on their charge. More in this Issue Feature Ahead of the Game The story behind how UCF’s Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy grew into an industry game changer. Feature Reaching for the Stars and Stripes UCF’s Lou Frey Institute and faculty are helping develop civic education standards to encourage engaged citizenship. In Focus Back to Bouncin’ UCF’s 2021 season opener was one to remember with return to the full game day experience and the start of the Gus Malzahn era. Launchpad Connected Care A UCF alum’s healthcare app aims to alleviate stress for patients’ loved ones while keeping them informed. Artifact Getting Real Cutting-edge hologram technology is helping train UCF’s future healthcare professionals. AlumKnights House Call Tom Weichart ’04MS reflects on his time as a nurse at the White House during the George W. Bush presidency. In Focus Lights, Camera, Action Premiering in February 2022, UCF will be featured on The College Tour, which was co-produced by a local film company staffed by alums. Gallery On Campus — Fall 2021 From a Welcome Back Social to Hispanic Heritage Month observances, there was a lot to celebrate during the Fall 2021 semester. Feature On Tap Hospitality management students learn the science behind America’s billion-dollar beer-brewing industry. Infographic Picture-perfect Proteins A UCF researcher is developing new technologies to study protein movement in human cells in an effort to advance our ability to treat diseases. In Focus Supporting Surfside Responders Faculty members of UCF RESTORES helped support the mental health of first responders at the collapse of the Champlain Towers South condo building in Surfside, Florida. Why I… Why I Still Believe in Magic George A. Kalogridis ’76 shares his journey of helping Walt Disney World open its doors 50 years ago as a busboy to eventually rising as one of its top executives. Recent Issues of Pegasus Magazine Summer 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Summer 2020 Spring 2020 View Archives » Follow UCF on Facebook Follow UCF on Twitter Follow UCF on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816