Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Institutional Diversity & Equity About Us Diversity Mission Statement Programs Campus Initiatives Recruitment Quick Links Strategic Planning Provisional Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy ADA/504 Program Affirmative Action Plan Employee Accessibility Resources Employee Resource Networks Join the IDE Listserv Policies & Procedures Self ID Form Student Disability Grievance Process Veteran Resources Related Sites Dartmouth Compliance and Ethics Hotline Dartmouth Compliance Matrix Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Sexual Respect & Title IX Student Accessibility Services WISE Search this Site Dartmouth College Office of Institutional Diversity & Equity Parkhurst 006 (garden level) HB 6018 Hanover, NH 03755 Phone: 603-646-1606 Fax: 603-646-2516 Email: institutional.diversity.and.equity@dartmouth.edu Home > Dartmouth Accessibility and Compliance Table of Contents ADA/504 Compliance Program Employment Accommodations Student Accommodations Visitor and Guest Accommodations Resolving Concerns or Appeals Website Accessibility Student Organizations Academic and Instructional Resources Event Spaces and Event Planning Transportation Regional and National Resources Welcome to the ADA/504 Program home page. This site exists to provide information, guidance, and resources to the Dartmouth community as we work together to ensure an accessible and inclusive campus experience for people with disabilities. This reflects Dartmouth’s commitment to ensuring that its programs, services, and activities are accessible to all. Disability-related accommodations are delivered through a network of established programs and offices that serve undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students, faculty, staff, visitors, and guests. Accommodation needs and inquiries about accessibility assistance are welcome. Please check back often as this site will continue to add and update content. And let us know how we are doing, whether you would like to report a positive experience or a concern or barrier you have encountered. Use this email address (ada.ide@dartmouth.edu) to keep in touch. Warm regards, Linda Sullivan ADA/504 Coordinator Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity ADA/504 COMPLIANCE PROGRAM The ADA/504 Coordinator (ADAC) in the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE) ensures compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to people with disabilities. The ADAC oversees and implements a campus-wide compliance program, including: managing the disability-based appeals process related to the provision of disability-related accommodations; developing and delivering campus-wide disability awareness and compliance training; assisting in the delivery of accommodations to campus visitors and guests; promoting physical and digital access enhancements; and providing effective leadership to promote institutional collaboration and consistency. Contact: Linda Sullivan, ADA/504 Coordinator (603) 646-3920 | ada.ide@dartmouth.edu Employment Accommodations Employment accommodations are overseen by the IDE Employment Accommodations Coordinator who receives requests for workplace accommodations and recommends reasonable accommodations for faculty, staff and student employees, and applicants for employment. Along with the ADAC, the Employment Accommodations Coordinator also serves as a resource to departments and programs in providing accommodations to visitors and guests. This position works with partners across the institution to promote an accessible and inclusive working environment. Contact: Linda Sullivan, ADA/504 Coordinator (603) 646-3920 | ada.ide@dartmouth.edu Student Accommodations Accommodations for prospective and enrolled students with disabilities are supported through specific programs within the undergraduate, graduate, and professional schools. The following offices are the first point of contact for applicants for admissions and currently enrolled students to inquire about disability-related accommodations and begin the interactive process. College of Arts and Sciences Student Accessibility Services (SAS) supports undergraduate students with disabilities including 5th year (B.E.) Thayer School of Engineering students. Contact: (603) 646-9900 | student.accessibility.services@dartmouth.edu Geisel School of Medicine The Geisel School of Medicine supports medical students with disabilities and other learning needs through the Geisel Office of Student Accessibility Services (GSAS). Contact: William H. Eidtson, Director of Learning Support and Student Accessibility Services (603) 650-1125 | william.eidtson@dartmouth.edu Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Accommodations for Guarini graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies. Contact: Gary Hutchins, Registrar and Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies (603) 646-2107 | gary.hutchins@dartmouth.edu Thayer School of Engineering Accommodations for Thayer graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs. Contact: Holly Wilkinson, Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs (603) 646-3483 | holly.wilkinson@dartmouth.edu Tuck School of Business Accommodations for Tuck graduate students are determined and provided through the Assistant Dean for Academic and Student Affairs. Contact: Sally Jaeger, Associate Dean, MBA Program (603) 646-2190 | sally.o.jaeger@tuck.dartmouth.edu The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice (TDI) Accommodations for TDI graduate students are determined and provided through the Director of Admissions. Contact: Courtney Theroux, Director of Admissions (603) 650-1530 | courtney.l.theroux@dartmouth.edu Visitor and Guest Accommodations Requests for accommodations to participate in a Dartmouth-sponsored program, service or activity are made directly to the event host or sponsor. The ADAC serves as a resource to departments and programs in providing accommodations to visitors and guests as does the IDE Employment Accommodations Coordinator. Contact: Program host/sponsor or ada.ide@dartmouth.edu Resolving Concerns or Appeals Dartmouth is committed to providing equal opportunities for students, faculty, staff, and visitors with disabilities to access and participate in academic, social, cultural, and recreational programs at Dartmouth. This commitment is grounded not only in disability law, including Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Sections 504 and 508), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and the ADA Amendments of 2008, but also in Dartmouth's commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging for all members of the academic community. Dartmouth's ADA/504 Coordinator (ADAC) in the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE) serves as the first point of contact for information about Dartmouth's Disability-Based Accommodation Appeals Procedures. ALTERNATIVE RESOLUTION PROCESS Dartmouth encourages an efficient and informal resolution of concerns. In many instances, an informal process can resolve a disability-related accommodation concern in an efficient and expeditious manner. Individuals who have disability-related concerns may initially attempt to resolve matters by contacting the Campus Disability Authority to discuss the nature of the concern, factors to consider as part of the interactive process, and whether an alternative resolution process with the relevant individual or program can be engaged. Individuals who have been denied an accommodation by the Campus Disability Authority may contact Dartmouth's ADA/504 Coordinator (ADAC) in the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE). FORMAL APPEAL PROCEDURE Individuals who are not satisfied with the alternative resolution process or who wish to engage in a formal appeal of a decision or action without first seeking an informal resolution should contact Dartmouth's ADA/504 Coordinator who is responsible for responding to allegations of discrimination in the accommodation process. The accommodation appeal procedure is responsive to situations where there is a disagreement with any action, inaction, or decision resulting in a failure to implement an agreed-upon accommodation, the quality of the accommodation provided, the timeliness of the receipt of the accommodation, an accommodation denial, or any other accommodation-based claim. To file a formal Disability Accommodation Appeal, contact Linda Sullivan, ADA/504 Coordinator, (603) 646-3920 | ada.ide@dartmouth.edu Allegations of disability-related discrimination unrelated to the accommodation process are addressed through the Equal Opportunity Grievance Procedures in the Office of Institutional Diversity and Equity (IDE). Website Accessibility Accessibility issues with a Dartmouth website, form, web application, or other technology should be reported to Information Technology and Consulting (ITC) using the Site for Accessibility Feedback Form. Student Organizations Access Dartmouth serves as a mentorship organization for incoming students with disabilities and access challenges and helps ease their transition to Dartmouth. The group also engages in accessibility advocacy and activism on campus. Dartmouth Mental Health Student Union are student advocates of mental health who strive to create a campus in which mental health is regarded with the attention it deserves, free from any form of stigma. Academic and Instructional Resources Accessible Remote Teaching: Faculty Resources: Information, Technology and Consulting (ITC) Creating Accessible Course Materials: Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning (DCAL) Creating Accessible Materials: Learning Design at Dartmouth Information on Universal Design (UD) practices in higher education, one of many frameworks designed to extend access and reach to everyone in the classroom. Event Spaces and Event Planning Accessible Events Planning Collis Center and ’53 Commons Accessibility Resources Department of Theater Accessibility Resources Hood Museum of Art Accessibility Resources Dartmouth Library Accessibility Resources Transportation Advance Transit, Access AT Dartmouth College students, employees, and guest who require Accessible Transportation Services in order to travel to/from Dartmouth College may contact ACCESS AT, (802) 295-1824 TTY 711. ACCESS AT operates in Hanover, Hartford, Lebanon and Norwich. Campus Map Campus Parking Accessible Permit Application Regional and National Resources Association on Higher Education and Disability (AHEAD) Through progressive, visionary leadership, grounded in social justice principles, AHEAD: develops, shares, and provides relevant knowledge; strategically engages in actions that enhance higher educational professionals' effectiveness; and advocates on behalf of its membership, their institutions, their work, and those they serve ensuring full, effective participation by individuals with disabilities in every aspect of the postsecondary experience. Job Accommodation Network (JAN) The Job Accommodation Network (JAN) is the leading source of free, expert, and confidential guidance on workplace accommodations and disability employment issues provided by the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP). New England ADA Center The New England ADA Center is one of 10 regional ADA Centers comprising the serving Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. Since 1991, the ADA National Network has provided information, guidance, and training on the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), tailored to meet the needs of business, government, and individuals at local, regional, and national levels. New Hampshire Commission for Human Rights The New Hampshire Commission for Human Rights is a state agency established by RSA 354-A for the purpose of enforcement of the law against discrimination in employment, public accommodations and the sale or rental of housing or commercial property, because of age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, creed, color, marital status, familial status, physical or mental disability or national origin. The commission has the power to receive, investigate and make findings on complaints of illegal discrimination and to hold public hearings. In addition, the Commission is committed to eliminating discrimination through outreach, training, research and education. US Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Disability Rights Section: A Guide to Disability Rights Laws This guide provides an overview of Federal civil rights laws that ensure equal opportunity for people with disabilities. U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) The EEOC is responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or an employee because of the person's race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, transgender status, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, or genetic information. Back to top Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 9/30/21