Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Sociology Department Menu Main Nav Sociology Department Sociology Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Contact News and Notes Giving People Overview Faculty Clusters Open Positions Undergraduate Overview Degree Programs Major & Minor Requirements Resources for Current Students Honors Program Careers Departmental Awards Graduate Overview Degree Programs Courses Resources for Current Students International Students Funding Tuition, Health Care and Housing Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Ph.D. Alumni Events Courses Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Sociology Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Sociology Home Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Courses Resources for Current Students International Students Funding Tuition, Health Care and Housing Graduate Consortium Recent Ph.D. Graduates Ph.D. Alumni Graduate Message from Director of Graduate Studies Sarah Babb Thank you for your interest in our department’s graduate training, which consists of both Ph.D. and M.A. programs. Many things make Boston College an attractive site to study sociology. Our graduate program has a longstanding reputation for attracting and training first-rate students with a commitment to social justice and a passion for changing the world. Our talented and widely-published faculty are committed to strong research, mentoring, and teaching. They provide in-depth exposure to the central traditions of sociology while encouraging innovative and interdisciplinary research. Our Departmental Seminar Series provides an ongoing forum for exposing students and faculty to cutting-edge research, and offers a great opportunity for graduate students to dialogue and develop relations with a wide variety of important sociologists. Many of our faculty and graduate students are public sociologists who collaborate with groups working for social change, and who frequently appear in the national and international media. We are a vibrant and supportive community that embraces methodological pluralism and values high-caliber research that makes a difference in the world. Our department members have wide-ranging interests, and use both qualitative and quantitative methodologies in their research. We have particularly strong concentrations of expertise in the areas of: Aging and the Life Course; Environmental Sociology; Family and Carework; Global and Transnational Sociology; Political Sociology; Race, Class and Gender; and the Sociology of Development. Our faculty clusters page provides a sense of our leading concentrations of faculty interest and expertise. I encourage you to look at our faculty’s individual profiles to learn more about their research and other professional activities. Our graduate students do research on a wide array of topics, including: illegal drug markets; the social causes of climate change; racial disparities in institutionalization; social movements; low-income single mothers; police militarization; and the World Bank and other international organizations. Information about our current students can be found here. If you have any questions about our graduate program, don’t hesitate to contact us. Our Director of Graduate Admissions is Wen Fan. Interested in a graduate degree at BC? Applicants are accepted through the Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences Admission Office. Apply Degree Programs Current Graduate Students Faculty Clusters Learning Outcomes Ph.D. Students M.A. Students Placement: students will be able to obtain a post-doctoral fellowship, assistant professorship, or Ph.D.-level position in the applied social sciences outside of academia. Ethics: Students will be able to understand the ethical dimensions of the field and follow ethical practices within all areas of their work. Breadth and depth of knowledge: Students will be able to identify the major methodological approaches and theoretical debates within the field. Teaching: students will be able to independently design and teach a course. Research: Students will be able to identify research problems and follow through with appropriate data collection, analysis, and interpretation. Research: Students will be able to produce original research and publish it in journals in sociology, its subfields, and/or allied fields. Research: Students will be able to effectively present their research to other scholars. Placement: M.A. students will be able to gain admission to a Ph.D. program or obtain a M.A.-level position in the applied social sciences outside of academia. Ethics: Students will be able to understand the ethical dimensions of the field and follow ethical practices within all areas of their work. Breadth and depth of knowledge: Students will be able to identify the major methodological approaches and theoretical debates within the field. Research: Students will be able to identify research problems and follow through with appropriate data collection, analysis, and interpretation. Back To Top Back To Top Sociology Department McGuinn Hall 426 617-552-4130 sociology@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Sociology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College