Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Unknown Resources Current SoA students can access an internal, live document of resources by logging into Yale Box and accessing the following link > yaleart.org/studentresources Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Collaborative School of Art resource lists currently include: Equity, Inclusion, Anti-Racism Resources initiated by the EIA Working Group, Jan. 2021 COVID-19 / Pandemic and Emergency-Related Artist Resources List initiated by the Dean’s Office, Mar. 2020 (listed by recency, update this module to add your own resources!) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Find resources available at Yale here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Online resources Art World Learning Art World Learning announces The Future Of… Series, highlighting concrete actions toward greater equity in the arts Art World Learning has some exciting new programming just announced: The Future Of… Series: Beyond Rhetoric, Recognizing Action in The Art World. This series of eight programs highlights concrete actions of artists, initiatives, and organizations that we consider beacons on a path forward toward greater equity in the arts. You can see details about the entire series here. Programs such as these are free for Art World Learning students and subscribers. Current art students and faculty have free access to all the content on the site while enrolled, and for your first six months after graduating. Use Yale’s coupon code AWL _ YALE _ 2021 (without spaces) to enroll today FOR FREE! Online here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Adobe Creative Career Community student newsletter Check out Adobe’s Creative Career Newsletter: “your go-to source for the latest events, opportunities, and resources to help you launch your career.” Readers will find tutorials, offices hours, opportunities to see early peeks at software, innovative and creative seminars and hands-on events. Any student interested in creativity will find this a valuable resource. See the newsletter here >> Students can opt-in using the subscribe button at the upper right or via this link >> Do you know that all Yale students have full access to the Adobe Creative Cloud suite of digital tools? That includes well-known titles like Photoshop, Premiere and After Effects as well as cutting-edge new technologies like XD, Fresco and Animate. Access the Yale Creative Cloud installer here >> Any questions? Please reach out to hiring manager Jordan Gushwa. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Unknown