Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Back To Facilities Visitor Center Planetarium Cadet Chapel Polaris Hall Arnold Hall Fairchild Hall Library Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Vandenberg Hall Davis Airfield Jacks Valley The Terrazzo To the stars Planetarium With state-of-the-art projection technology and immersive surround sound, the Academy’s Planetarium enhances our STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) outreach and cadet education. We offer a diverse range of full-dome films, concerts, live talks and events, as well as host large gatherings during astronomical and NASA-related events. Take a 360-degree virtual tour Cadet Shows The Planetarium creates an immersive learning environment for cadets that can’t be replicated in a traditional classroom or online environment, leading to greater comprehension of complex topics. Although its primarily used as a source of astronomy and astrophysics education, the capabilities and content have expanded to encompass a variety of disciplines such as biology, chemistry, geology, engineering and history. To discuss how we can support curriculum or schedule a visit Monday through Friday, faculty and staff should email planetarium@afacademy.af.edu. School Shows Elementary, Middle and High Schools may reserve free shows for their students Monday through Friday. When requesting a school visit, teachers may select one of the shows listed at the bottom of this page. We also offer live, interactive demonstrations with an astronomer as we navigate the galaxy. To request a reservation, email planetarium@afacademy.af.edu and include the preferred date/time, number of student attendees, and any special accommodations. Educators interested in additional STEM resources and opportunities, click here. Free Public Shows All shows are free and open to the public so military or Department of Defense identification is not required. Seating is on a first come, first serve basis as we do not accept reservations. We recommend arriving 10 minutes prior to the show time. See below for show schedule. Shows are subject to cancellation without notice due to inclement weather and cadet education. The Planetarium is closed on weekends, graduation day and federal holidays. Schedule May 2022 Calendar Friday May 27 12:00-2:00 – Open House Monday May 30 CLOSED – Memorial Day June 2022 Calendar Wednesday June 1 4:00 – Dream Big Friday June 3 12:00 – Superpower Dogs 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Universe Tour 4:00 – Great Bear Rainforest Monday June 6 12:00 – Experience the Aurora + Black Holes 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Solar System Tour 4:00 – Humpback Whales Wednesday June 8 4:00 – Fighter Pilot Friday June 10 12:00 – Superpower Dogs 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Universe Tour 4:00 – Volcanoes Monday June 13 12:00 – Robots 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Solar System Tour 4:00 – Great Bear Rainforest Wednesday June 15 4:00 – Apollo 11 Friday June 17 12:00 – Superpower Dogs 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Universe Tour 4:00 – Dream Big Monday June 20 CLOSED Wednesday June 22 4:00 – Volcanoes Friday June 24 12:00 – Superpower Dogs 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Universe Tour 4:00 – Astronaut + Black Holes Monday June 27 12:00 – Humpback Whales 1:30 – Live Night Sky + Solar System Tour 4:00 – Dream Big Wednesday June 29 4:00 – Great Bear Rainforest Please check back for updated show listings. Available Shows GREAT BEAR RAINFOREST Journey to a land of grizzlies, coastal wolves, sea otters and the all-white spirit bear — the rarest bear on earth — in the film Great Bear Rainforest. Hidden from the outside world, the Great Bear Rainforest is one of the wildest places left on earth. Found on Canada's remote Pacific coast, it is the last intact temperate rainforest in the world—a place protected by the region's indigenous people for millennia. Now, for the first time ever, experience this magical world in IMAX and giant screen theatres, and discover the land of the spirit bear. Narrated by Ryan Reynolds Run Time: 40 minutes VOLCANOES: THE FIRE OF CREATION Volcanoes are responsible for creating the conditions for life to flourish on Earth, but they unpredictably still create through destruction. An adventurous photographer attempts a descent into a fiery crater. Run Time: 42 minutes Astronaut ASTRONAUT takes you from Earth into space... and beyond. Experience a rocket launch from inside the body of an astronaut. Explore the amazing worlds of inner and outer space, from floating around the International Space Station to maneuvering through microscopic regions of the human body. Discover the perils that lurk in space as we subject 'Chad,' our test astronaut, to everything that space has to throw at him. ASTRONAUT is an experience like nothing on Earth. Run Time: 24 minutes Humpback Whales Humpback Whales is an extraordinary journey into the mysterious world of one of nature's most awe-inspiring marine mammals. Set in the waters of Alaska, Hawaii and the remote islands of Tonga, this ocean adventure offers audiences an up-close look at how these whales communicate, sing, feed, play and take care of their young. Found in every ocean on earth, humpbacks were nearly driven to extinction 50 years ago, but today are making a slow but remarkable recovery. Join a team of researchers as they find out why humpbacks are the most acrobatic of all whales, why they sing their haunting songs, and why these intelligent, 55-foot, 50-ton animals migrate up to 10,000 miles round-trip every year. Run Time: 40 minutes Eclipses and the Phases of the Moon This is more than an eclipse show—it supports NGSS (Next Generation Science Standards) curriculum, including: - Phases of the Moon - Solar and Lunar Eclipses - Moon Lit by Reflected Sunlight - Moon's Rotational Period and Orbit - Scale/Orientation of Earth-Moon System - Composition of the Lunar Surface - Shape of the Solar System Target Audience: Students age 8+ and general audience Run Time: 20 minutes Fighter Pilot John (“Otter”) Stratton is a young American fighter pilot who flies the F-15 Eagle, arguably the most potent and successful fighter plane ever built. His grandfather was a decorated World War II flying ace, and he intended to follow in his footsteps. At Red Flag, the international training exercise for air forces of allied countries, many of the world’s best pilots meet for the most challenging flying of their careers. Red Flag is the final training for pilots and their aircrews before being sent into actual combat. We follow our young pilot as he makes his way through this extraordinary event held in the desert of Nevada. Run Time: 40 minutes Experience the Aurora Over seven months in the Arctic Circle, our crews captured timelapse images of the Aurora Borealis with high resolution digital SLR cameras outfitted with fisheye lenses. The results are spectacular. For the first time, the aurora has been captured as it was meant to be experienced, as a display that covers the entire sky. This immersive show shares the science behind the aurora and tells the story of the quest to find and photograph the aurora to show in planetariums. Winner of 2 Telly Awards. Run Time: 27 minutes Flight Adventures Dreams of flying, model aircraft and a young girl and her grandfather come together in this multi-media planetarium show about the science of aeronautics. Learn about famous inventors and aviators of the past and the pioneers who first revealed the four forces of flight. See images of aircraft past, present and future and imagine where flight might take us. Run Time: 22 minutes Dream Big: Engineering Our World Narrated by Academy Award ® winner Jeff Bridges, Dream Big: Engineering Our world is a first of its kind film that will transform how we think about engineering. From the Great Wall of China and the world’s tallest building, to underwater robots, solar cars and smart, sustainable cities, Dream Big celebrates the human ingenuity behind engineering marvels big and small, and reveals the heart that drives engineers to create better lives for people around the world. Run Time: 42 minutes Two Small Pieces of Glass Galileo’s telescopic observations began a revolution, transforming our views of the cosmos and our place within it. It’s a revolution which, four hundred years later, continues. Today you can attend star parties where amateur astronomers set up their telescopes for public viewing. Views through such telescopes would have amazed Galileo. Two Small Pieces of Glass puts you in the middle of a modern star party. Discover the wonders that even a small amateur telescope can reveal and learn about the scientists that made such views possible. Run Time: 23 minutes Black Holes: The Other Side of Infinity Seen by millions worldwide, Black Holes: The Other Side of Infinity is one of the most successful planetarium shows ever produced. This cutting-edge production features high-resolution visualizations of cosmic phenomena, working with data generated by computer simulations to bring the current science of black holes to the dome screen. Audiences will be dazzled with striking, immersive animations of the formation of the early universe, star birth and death, the collision of giant galaxies, and a simulated flight to a super-massive black hole luring at the center of our Milky Way galaxy. Narrated by Liam Neeson. Run Time: 24 minutes Journey to the Centre of the Milky Way What lies at the heart of our galaxy? For twenty years, ESO’s Very Large Telescope and the Keck telescopes have observed the center of the galaxy, looking at the motion of more than a hundred stars and identifying the position of the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy. Embark on a Journey to the Centre of the Milky Way and travel faster than light from the driest place on Earth, the Atacama Desert in Chile, right to the center of our own galaxy, where a black hole is consuming anything that strays into its path. 84 million stars will appear in front of your eyes, each hiding mysteries waiting to be solved. Are there planets around them, perhaps with moons? Do they have water? Could they harbor life? Run Time: 7 minutes Losing the Dark A “public service announcement” planetarium show introduces and illustrates some of the issues regarding light pollution, and suggests three simple actions people can take to help mitigate it. The show educates the public about the problems of light pollution and the responsible use of lighting. Run Time: 7 minutes Robots Today’s robots are nothing short of astonishing. Those coming in the not-too-distance future are simply revolutionary—and they are becoming eerily like us. What does it take to make a humanoid robot—a robot that can do anything we can do without the benefit of a human brain? How close are scientists to replicating some of the particularly challenging human characteristics? Why are we even attempting to create humanoids in the first place? ROBOTS answers these questions and more as it showcases the latest developments—the successes and failures—of robotics around the world. ROBOTS is a fascinating and fun look at what makes us human, how far machines can really go to look and act like us, and how humanoids are already changing our world. Run Time: 39 minutes Apollo 11 Astronauts Neil Armstrong, Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin and Michael Collins blasted away from Earth on a Saturn V rocket on July 16, 1969. On July 20, Armstrong and Aldrin set foot on the moon, the first humans to do so. The three returned to Earth on July 24. The filmmakers reconstruct the exhilarating final moments of preparation, liftoff, landing and return of this historic mission—one of humanity’s greatest achievements and the first to put men on the moon. With a newly-discovered trove of never-before-seen footage and audio recordings, Apollo 11: First Steps Edition joins Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins, the Mission Control team and millions of spectators around the world, during those momentous days and hours in 1969 when humankind took a giant leap into the future. Run Time: 48 minutes Superpower Dogs Join an immersive adventure to experience the life-saving superpowers and extraordinary bravery of some of the world’s most amazing dogs. In this inspiring true story narrated by Chris Evans, our best friends are also real-life superheroes. Journey around the globe to meet remarkable dogs who save lives and discover the powerful bond they share with their human partners. Follow ‘Halo’, a rookie puppy training to join one of the most elite disaster response teams in America. Meet ‘Henry’, an avalanche rescue expert in the mountains of British Columbia, ‘Reef’, a Newfoundland lifeguard with the Italian coastguard, ‘Ricochet’, a Californian surf legend helping people with special needs, and the Bloodhound brothers, ‘Tipper and Tony’, who are leading the fight to save endangered species in Africa. As we discover the incredible abilities of dogs and the astonishing science behind their superpowers, we’ll never look at our best friends the same way again! Run Time: 47 minutes History The Planetarium was originally built in 1959 and is one of the oldest structures at the U.S. Air Force Academy. With seats surrounding the perimeter and a large projector in the center, the Planetarium was initially used to teach celestial navigation classes to cadets. Due to rapidly advancing computing technology, cadets no longer had a need to navigate by the stars and this resulted in its closure in 2004. After 15 years of sitting vacant, a passionate group of Academy leaders with the support of private donors spearheaded an effort to not only refurbish the structure, but advance the technology and capabilities inside to serve a new generation of cadets leading the way in space. Although the exterior remains virtually identical to its previous incarnation due to its historical status, the interior now features reclining theater seats and a series of 8K projectors built into the walls that offer a 360-degree near-hemispheric screen to deliver a visually immersive field-of-view to audiences. On March 4, 2019, the Planetarium officially reopened to the public, welcoming over 45,000 visitors in its first year of operation, including 4,000 K-12 students. With a new mission to enhance STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) outreach to the local community, it quickly became a top-rated attraction and tourist destination in Colorado Springs. Contact Us planetarium@afacademy.af.edu Directions To visit the Planetarium, use exit 156 off Interstate 25 and enter the U.S. Air Force Academy through the North Gate. You will need your driver’s license or military ID and proof of vehicle insurance to enter the base. Please be prepared for potential security measures such as vehicle inspections. Foreign national visitors with a passport will need to go to the Pass & Registration Center, just outside the South Gate at exit 150, to obtain a pass. For more information on how to access the base, click here and for a map, click here. Please do not follow GPS directions as those will take you to an incorrect location. Once on base, continue driving straight on Academy Drive for 4 miles and then turn left to park in the visitor lot for Arnold Hall. To the north of the visitor parking, there is a building with a white dome – that’s the Planetarium! Please follow the steps to the front door or use the winding path to the left of the steps for ramp access. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.