Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityUndergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Apply Today Majors & Minors Visit Campus Life Tuition, Scholarships, Aid Contact TRANSFER TO MARQUETTE Apply to Transfer Admission Criteria Transfer Resources Scholarships International Veterans Important Deadlines Application Deadline: Fall 2022: July 1, 2022 Fall 2022 Nursing: May 1, 2022 View our transfer checklist to review application requirements Marquette in the News - Marquette announces new undergraduate transfer pathways - College of Business Administration partners with WCTC on transfer agreements - Marquette University named to Phi Theta Kappa's Honor Roll again, four out of last six years - 'Golden Eagle Advantage' provides transfer pathway for Aug Prep Academy students - Braxton Clarke highlighted in honor of National Transfer Student Week - Marquette ranked #18 in Best Undergraduate Teaching by US News Best Colleges - Transfer students in Diederich College of Communication share their transfer experiences - Formal partnership established with Joliet Junior College in Illinois - Marquette participates in historic transfer agreement with technical colleges - Marquette University, Herzing University partner on new pathway program - Marquette University named to Phi Theta Kappa's 2020 Transfer Honor Roll CONNECT WITH US! Phi Theta Kappa Transfer Honor Roll - 2022 Marquette University has once again been named to Phi Theta Kappa’s 2022 Transfer Honor Roll. This recognition is given to the most transfer-friendly colleges in the nation. VISIT MARQUETTE Click here to explore visit options (in-person and virtual) specifically designed for transfer students! REQUEST AN APPOINTMENT or VIEW OUR TRANSFER VISITS Interested in how your credits will transfer? Use Transferology! AT YOUR SERVICE Answering your questions quickly and accurately is our priority. A transfer specialist is on hand to make your transition to Marquette as smooth as possible. Contact us today! PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact admissions@marquette.edu. The value of a Marquette education Knowing where your money goes and how the university operates are paramount to understanding the true value of a Marquette education. Working together with our students, we've compiled some key data and laid it out in an accessible, transparent and easy-to-read guide. Check your application status Log into your application status page to verify that all required credentials have been received. Once your application is complete, it can take two to three weeks for a decision. Admission notification is sent by mail. Check out MKE101 A special edition of Marquette Magazine that provides of glimpse into life as a Golden Eagle! Location Marquette University 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (800) 222-6544 Key Resources español Employment Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu COVID-19 Information eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©