Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Fraternity and Sorority Life Interfraternity Council Interfraternity Council IFC Recruitment Multicultural Greek Council Multicultural Greek Council MGC Intake National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council NPHC Intake Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Council Panhellenic Recruitment Parent and Families ☰ Student Affairs Fraternity and Sorority Life National Pan-Hellenic Council National Pan-Hellenic Council GET IN TOUCH: P: 214.768.4400 | E: nphc@smu.edu Mailing Address: SMU National Pan-Hellenic Council P.O. Box 750436 Dallas, TX 75275-0436 NPHC Mission Statement "Unanimity of thought and action as far as possible in the conduct of Greek letter collegiate fraternities and sororities, and to consider problems of mutual interest to its member organizations." The National Pan-Hellenic Council, Incorporated is currently composed of nine (9) International Greek letter Sororities and Fraternities: Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., Iota Phi Theta Fraternity, Inc., Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc., Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc., Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc., and Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. SMU currently recognizes four (4) active NPHC chapters: Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc. What makes NPHC organizations unique? NPHC organizations are historically black Greek lettered fraternities and sororities. The NPHC promotes interaction through forums, meetings and other mediums for the exchange of information and engages in cooperative programming and initiatives through various activities and functions. The Council was organized as a national coordinating body in May 1930 at Howard University (Washington, DC). NPHC Intake Current NPHC Organizations at SMU Upcoming NPHC Events The Multicultural Greek Council and the National Pan-Hellenic Council Garden The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) was founded in 1930 and established at SMU in 1986, and the Multicultural Greek Council (MGC) was founded in 1998 and established at SMU in 2000. Both councils continue to thrive on the SMU campus and have been a driving force for all of the student body by breaking down barriers and fostering leadership opportunities throughout the institution. The presence of these two Greek governing councils at SMU has been an important aspect of the University’s support for our diverse student body. To recognize their contributions and ensure a lasting legacy for generations of SMU students to come, SMU has created a garden in honor of the Multicultural Greek Council and National Pan-Hellenic Council. Situated at the corner of University Boulevard and Airline Road, the garden is comprised of individual stone markers for each fraternity and sorority chapter that is a member of each council, signifying the enduring impact these organizations have made on the University. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share