Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices An Iowa Legacy Search form Search Main menu Main Menu Home Maps Iowa Land Grant Parcels Other State Parcels in Iowa History Stories About This legacy belongs to all Iowans. The first Iowans called for a new kind of college - one based on science and open to all; one dedicated to the education of the working people of Iowa. That was 1846, today we are Iowa State University. The stories here and ones yet to be added tell of our connection to each other, the land and the people's university. Sharing stories that recall how Iowa's land grant came to be and ones that tell of significant accomplishments made by those with ties to the university honors the dreams of early settlers. They are the basis of our legacy and nurture our hopes for future generations - and a strong Iowa. LOCATE LAND PARCELS ON THESE MAPS The Morrill Act of 1862 entitled states to federal land (30,000 acres per Congressman) for the support of a college teaching agriculture and mechanical arts. The land granted to Iowa is located in 27 northwestern Iowa counties. Those same counties contain land granted to 25 other states for the same purpose. Explore the maps to locate land grant parcels, change map background or add layers of historical data, share via social media or print the map. CONFIRM OUR MAP DATA Complete an abstract information form if an Iowa parcel lies within your land; this will validate our data and connect you to future land grant legacy events. This video walks you through the validation process. SHARE YOUR LAND GRANT PARCEL STORY By sharing the story of your connection to the land and the history of the families on the land you add connections to this great legacy. IOWANS FIRST IN THE NATION Historically, Iowans have been first in the nation to take action. Meet the leaders; learn about the role Iowans have taken in agricultural progress and educational commitment. STORIES OF THE LAND, THE PEOPLE ON THE LAND Learn how settlers connected to and built a life on the land. Learn about current owner activities on the land. Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Land Grant Legacy 1111 NSRIC Ames, IA 50011-3611 www.landgrant.iastate.edu landgranthistory@iastate.edu