Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions International International Student Life International Student Life Events and Programs OIA's Event Page |Tech Connect| ISL Instagram| Spring 2022 Calendar Coming Soon! The events listed below are just some of fun things we offer for international students! Once you are enrolled at TTU you will begin to receive an International Student Newsletter from Beth Mora, International Student Life Administrator. This newsletter goes out once a week and will be loaded with events and activities throughout the semester! We love to meet our students and get to know each and every one of you, so please consider attending! International Orientation August and January: Before semester Start The International Student Life unit helps international undergraduate students get off to a great start with an interactive and informative orientation. International Student Orientation is geared strictly to international students, complements Red Raider Orientation that is mandatory for all Texas Tech University students. The Graduate School conducts a separate orientation for all TTU graduate students. A New part of Orientation includes out on-campus Scavenger Hunt, which started as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic in Fall of 2020. Our Global Guides and you explore the campus in teams as a way to better understand our massive campus and to help you create connections with other new international students like yourself. You will not only familiarize yourself with campus but leave with a whole new knowledge of TTU history as well! Welcome Event FEb 3rd 2022 Immediately following the International Student Orientation, new and returning international students are invited to a welcome event to kick off the new semester. In addition to lots of great food, students have a chance to learn about on- and off-campus resources, and make new friends. This event is hosted by a international student organization called SGC in partnership with ISL. Be sure to check out SGC's page and learn more about all that they do on campus! Spring 2022: Visit the link to learn more about this event, time & location Welcome event 2021 hosted by SGC. Cultural Exchange Program all year (sign up in OCt). The Cultural Exchange program connects international students and community families to enhance cultural understanding. This program allows students to experience family life in the United States. Many Students join Thier families for holidays, trips, family dinners and so on. This is also a great way to share your culture with an American family! Information on when to sign up for this program will be sent to students in their International Student Life Newsletters or on our Get Involved Page. Families or individuals who would like to host an international student can sign up here. International Student Rozenn with her match. 2020. Homecoming Flag Parade Fall: TBD The TTU homecoming game is a big event! Homecoming is a tradition associated with football in the United States. It is when former students are welcomed back to celebrate their former school and enjoy the game! At TTU there is a homecoming parade, where additionally, students can participate in the annual Homecoming Flag Parade, representing the diverse international student population at Texas Tech University. Watch for more information in your International Student Newsletter to sign up! Culture Fest Fall: TBD Culture Fest is an opportunity for the international student body on campus to share their culture with the rest of the TTU and Lubbock community. International Student organizations are welcome participate in Culture Fest to share their world with us! It's a great time to get a taste of the food, dance, music, art and culture represented on our campus! This event is open to the general public and the non-international campus community. thanksgiving Dinner with Community Partners Fall: TBD The quintessential American tradition of Thanksgiving Dinner is an opportunity for our community partners to share U.S. culture and tradition with international students. Thanksgiving today is seen as a time of gathering with friends and family to share a meal. Join us to try traditional Thanksgiving foods such as turkey, stuffing, pumpkin pie and more. Vegan and vegetarian options will be available. Day Hikes fall: TBD Once a semester, we head out to explore the Great Outdoors of West Texas and/or Eastern New Mexico! Some of our favorite places to visit are Palo Duro Canyon and Caprock Canyon State Park. These are easy, mostly flat hikes. We encourage you to join us to witness the beauty and wildlife of the Great Plains. Day hikes are also a great opportunity to make life long memories and new friends while enjoying the great outdoors! Watch for more dates in your International Student Newsletter. Students enjoying the beautiful scenery at Palo Duro Canyon, the second largest canyon in the USA. Athletic Events All Year! Join the ISL community at sporting events throughout the year to learn the games and cheer on the Red Raiders. These sporting events are a quintessential part of the American college experience, so don't miss out! Don't worry if you aren't familiar with the rules, we will teach you! Watch for your International Student Newsletter for more information. Worldwide Showcase Spring 2022: April 23rd International students share aspects of their culture with the Texas Tech community in the annual Worldwide Showcase. Student groups from around the world sing, dance, and more in this highly-anticipated event that is a prominent part of International Week at Texas Tech University. You will receive information regarding the show via your intl. student newsletter and through our Social Media pages. Are you interested in volunteering for the Worldwide Showcase? We would love to have you! This event is put on by our Students for Global Connections. We encourage you to join SGC through Tech Connect to learn how to get involved. See see videos from previous years, visit our YouTube Channel. Spring Break Trip Spring 2022: Based on COVID The Spring Break Trip is held every March during the Spring Break Holiday. Time, dates and location will be announced in your International Student Newsletter. Past Trips have included Santa Fe New Mexico and Junction Texas. Travel with us and explore the U.S; try new foods, see the sites and meet new friends! An adventure awaits you this Spring Break! Graduation Reception Spring: May 11th Twice a year the International Student Life unit organizes a reception to celebrate the academic achievements of graduating international students. You have worked had and we want to celebrate all of your achievements! TAX WORKSHOP Spring 2022: March 8th The TTU Tax office will help you file and prepare your taxes for the fiscal year. This is a free service offered to you by Texas Tech University. This service is free and is offered to international students every Spring! Remember you only need to attend if you worked last year, not this year as taxes are only filed for the past year not the current one. ADVENTURES During the Fall and Spring semesters we take weekend trips to cities around West Texas. Past trips have included Santa Fe New Mexico, Carlsbad Caverns National Park, the Texas State Fair, Amarillo Texas, and more! These trips are a great way to meet new people and explore new parts of the United States. Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 31, 2022 11:12 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index