Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Libraries About Faculty & Student Awards Faculty & Student Awards Research Assignment Stipend SMU Libraries encourages faculty to integrate new information literacy components into undergraduate and graduate coursework in collaboration with librarians. Winning faculty members will be awarded a $1000 stipend upon completion of a report on the impact on learning in the course. Apply for the Research Assignment Stipend Fall 2021 Winners Dr. Daniel (Dan) Moss, in collaboration with Humanities Librarian, Rebecca Graff, for Shakespeare: The Big Four (ENGL 4333). David Jacobson, J.D., M.B.A., in collaboration with Director of the Business Library Sandy Miller, for Complex Problem Solving (MNO 6228 ). Rev. Dr. Jaime Clark-Soles, in collaboration with Reference and Digital Services Librarian Leslie Fuller, for Interpretation of the New Testament (NT 6301). Dr. Michael Lively, in collaboration with Music and Theatre Librarian Pam Pagels, for Form and Analysis (MUTH 3350). Dr. Piyawan Charoensap-Kelly, in collaboration with Director of Educational Initiatives, Megan Heuer for Communication Research and Data Analytics (CCPA 2375). Previous winners and reports The Larrie and Bobbi Weil Undergraduate Research Award The Larrie and Bobbi Weil Undergraduate Research Award recognizes a student research paper that demonstrates depth, breadth, and thoughtful command of library resources. The winning student receives an award at Honors Convocation and $500. The winning paper is placed in the SMU Archives and in SMU Scholar and may be published in the SMU Journal of Undergraduate Research. Faculty may submit nominations. 2022 Winner Justin Patty, Arthur Cotton and the Development of Public Works Nominated by Dr. Jo Guldi, HIST 4300 Previous Winners STAR Award The Business Library presents the Super Teacher Advocating Research (STAR) Award to faculty who include opportunities for students to apply research skills in their course(s). Selected faculty work closely with business librarians to develop assignments and determine the best ways to teach and assess research. It is awarded to one faculty member each year at the Cox Fall Faculty Retreat. 2021 Winner David Jacobson, Executive Director Online Education and Professor of Practice Previous winners Faculty & Student Awards Research Assignment Stipend STAR Award Winners Weil Award Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share