Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Keeping St. John's Healthy Apply Deposit Give Programs Return to St. John's University homepage Search Search by keyword Search by purpose I amSelect an optionFuture StudentCurrent StudentAlumniFaculty & StaffParent looking forTake Me There Schools and Colleges Menu About Faith & Mission Leadership & Administration History & Facts Equity and Inclusion A Five-Year Plan for St. John’s Future Campuses and Locations News & Media Student Consumer Information Academics Find a Program Schools and Colleges Global Programs Libraries Research Summer Session Centers and Institutes Our Faculty Academic Resources Course Offerings Office of the Registrar Commencement Admission and Aid Tuition and Financial Aid Scholarships Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Transfer Admission International Admission Connect With Us Other Programs Life at St. John's New York City Campuses The World, Your Classroom Residence Life Career Services Student Services Spectrum Student Development Student Conduct Health and Wellness New Student Orientation Parent and Family Connections Title IX Public Safety Alumni and Friends Ways to Contribute Get Involved Benefits and Resources Success at St. John's Athletics Red Storm Sports Tickets Schedules Sports Camps and Clinics Red White Club News Locations Events Resources Admissions Faculty & Staff MySJU For Students [email protected] John's Student Employment Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Human Resources click to pause sliderclick to play slider Home About Leadership and Administration Administrative Offices Human Resources Administrative Offices Advancement Alumni Relations Business Affairs Printing and Distribution Services Campus Facilities and Services Health Sciences Center Conference Services Host a Conference Room Layouts and Capacities Graduations Summer Intern Housing For Departments, Faculty & Staff Conference Services Policies & Procedures Environmental Health & Safety Appendices Chemical Waste Radiological Waste Red Bag/Medical Waste Regular Trash Special Waste Universal Waste General Counsel Human Resources Our Team Employee Assistance Program Employee Benefits St. John's University Retirees Association Employee Compensation Employee Handbook Human Resources Policy Manual Policies HR Forms Holiday Schedules Equal Opportunity and Compliance Federal and New York Employment Posters Payroll and HRIS Recruitment Administrative and Staff/Clerical Positions Faculty Positions Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships Student Employment Training and Development Internal Career Development Workshops Human Resources Services Employee Engagement COVID-19 Employee Information Coronavirus (COVID-19) Frequently Asked Questions (Employees, Administration, Staff) Employee Benefits and Policies affected by COVID-19 Resources for Telework Success Virtual Training, Recorded Webinars and EAP LGBTQIA+ Resources for Employees LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group (ERG) Names and Pronouns: Frequently Asked Questions Office of Human Resources Antiracism Statement Office of Equity and Inclusion Office of University Mission Office of the Provost Academic Support Services Distance/Remote Learning Feedback Form Office of the Provost Antiracism Statement and Action Plan Constitution Day Policies, Procedures and Reports Digital Measures Division of Student Affairs Student Handbook Student Communications Room Requests Enrollment Management Office of the Registrar Student Financial Services Faculty Resources Hiring Non-Academic Graduate Assistants 2022 COACHE Survey Graduate Admissions Assistance Program Institutional Research Survey Policy Jeannette K. Watson Undergraduate Fellowship Middle States Accreditation New Faculty Information University Assessment Committee (UAC) Call for Proposal Submission Form (SI Campus) University Events Virtual Events Planning Guide New Student Convocation New Student Convocation Digital Swag Important Contacts Alma Mater (PDF) Faculty Convocation Vincentian Convocation Vincentian Convocation Reply Form Carnesecca Statue Dedication Lou Carnesecca Statue Dedication Ceremony Reply Form Employee Recognition Convocation University Relations Community Relations Siren Baroque Event St. John’s Way Ceremonial Conaming Government Relations Marketing and Communications Awards and Honors Marketing Resources Policies and Forms Media Relations HR Antiracism Statement Ethics Hotline COVID-19 Employee Information If you are new to the University, we welcome you, and congratulate you on choosing St. John’s. If you are a current member of our community, you are already familiar with the unique environment that makes up St. John’s. The Office of Human Resources supports the University's Vincentian traditions, mission, vision and values, and its commitment to antiracism. We invite you to explore this Human Resources website, learn about our support for diversity and inclusion, find ways to engage with employees and students, and to contact a member of our team with any questions. General Information Office of Human Resources The University Center, Suite C 8000 Utopia Parkway Queens, NY 11439 Phone: 718-990-1865 Fax: 718-990-5887 Our staff organization chart (PDF) Welcome Back to Campus Human Resources Departments Our Human Resources TeamEmployee BenefitsEmployee CompensationEqual Opportunity and ComplianceHuman Resources ServicesPayroll and HRISRecruitmentStudent EmploymentTraining and Development Human Resources Policy Manual A comprehensive guide to University-wide employment-related policies that apply to St. John’s University administrators and staff. Learn More Work at St. John's University St. John’s University educates leaders for today’s global society through quality academics, high-tech resources and an expanding international presence. Jobs Office of Human Resources Antiracism Statement Read the full statement here Frequently Asked Questions General Click to Open Where is Human Resources located? The Office of Human Resources is located in University Center, Queens campus. Where can I find open positions? You may find open positions updated weekly by clicking on the Recruitment landing page. What are the office hours at Human Resources? Monday through Thursday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays from 8:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. How do I view or change my address, emergency contact, phone and other personal information? Log on to signon.stjohns.edu and click on the UIS app. This will give you access to personal, financial and employee toolboxes where you can view and modify information. What should I do if I cannot login to the University Information System (UIS)? Please e-mail [email protected] for help. Benefits Click to Open *COVID-related changes to benefit provisions are italicized below General Benefits Questions What type of Employee Benefits does St. John’s offer? St. John’s offers a rich array of benefits. Choice of two PPO (Preferred Provider Organization) medical plans through Oxford Choice of dental plans including a DPPO (Dental Preferred Provider Organization) plan through Cigna and a DMO (Dental Maintenance Organization) plan offered through Aetna Life insurance and long-term disability benefits Flexible Spending accounts for both health and dependent care Qualified Transportation Expense Plan 403(b) Retirement Plan with a choice of investments, offered through TIAA and Fidelity Investments Supplemental benefits: life insurance, long-term disability insurance, Pet Insurance, Legal Services, 529 College Savings Program Who is eligible for benefits and when do my benefits become effective? As a St. John’s employee, you are eligible for benefits if you work at least 30 hours per week. Medical, dental, and life insurance benefits become effective on the first of the month coincident with or following your date of hire. Long term disability insurance becomes effective on the first of the month coincident with or following the one-year anniversary of your date of hire. Where can I find more information about the Benefit Plans that St. John’s offers? You can view a summary of all the plans we offer by accessing the Employee Benefits Guide that is available on the Employee Benefits page. Benefit information can also be found on Bswift (www.sju.bswift.com). Who do I contact if I have a question regarding my medical, dental and other employee benefits? If you have a general question regarding employee benefits, you may contact the Benefits office by calling 718-990-2363 or by emailing [email protected]. For questions about specific claims, you will need to contact the carriers directly. Carrier contact information can be found on the Employee Benefits page under, “Carrier Contact Information”. When can I make changes to my benefit plans? You may change your benefit plan elections during the annual Open Enrollment period. Changes made during Open Enrollment will become effective on January 1 of the following year and will remain in effect for the entire year. If you have a life event (i.e., marriage, birth, spouse’s loss of coverage with his/her employer), you may change your benefit elections within 31 days of the event.* Log onto Bswift (www.sju.bswift.com) to enter your life event. Contact the Benefits office with any questions, by calling 718-990-2362 or by emailing [email protected]. * Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, updated legislation has extended this timeframe until the earlier of, one year from the original due date or the end of the Outbreak Period. At this time, it is unclear what the end of the Outbreak Period will be. Where can I access benefit forms such as: medical claim forms, dental claim forms, flexible spending account claim forms and Salary Reduction Agreement forms? Forms can be found on the Employee Benefits page under, “Benefit Forms”. What happens to my benefits when my employment with St. John’s University ends? If you leave the University, your benefits will end at the end of the month following your last physical day worked (e.g. if your last physical day worked was November 14th, your benefits would end November 30th). You may continue your benefits at your own expense under COBRA.* You will be mailed information regarding your COBRA rights from P&A Group, upon ending your employment with the University. If you meet the University’s criteria to be considered a retiree (please see the Human Resources Policy manual in MySJU or the Collective Bargaining Agreement for Faculty), you may be entitled to continue your benefits at the University group rates at your own expense for as long as you wish. Please contact the Benefits office, by calling 718-990-2363 or by emailing [email protected], to notify us if you will be retiring so we can provide you with further information concerning rates. *The American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) of 2021 provides for a 100% COBRA subsidy for up to six months from April 1, 2021 through September 30, 2021 for any individual who lost health coverage because of an involuntary termination or reduction in hours. In addition, the ARPA provides these individuals a "second chance" to make their COBRA elections, in light of the subsidy, even if they let coverage lapse. Contact the P&A Group if you have questions on how this might affect your COBRA coverage. Medical and Vision Coverage What are my medical plan options? St. John’s offers a choice of two medical plans. Each plan includes comprehensive health care benefits, including free preventive care services, coverage for prescription drugs, and out of network benefits.* * Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, all copayments and cost-sharing related to medically necessary COVID-19 Testing and Treatment will be waived through the end of the Public Health Emergency period, as declared by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. Tests must be FDA-authorized to be covered without cost-sharing, so be sure to ask your health care provider to order an FDA-authorized test. For more information on COVID-19 Testing & Treatment Coverage, please contact Oxford at 1-800-444-6222 or www.oxfordhealth.com. What is the age limit for covered dependents under the medical plan? Under the Oxford/UHC medical plan, dependents are covered until the end of the month in which they turn age 26 or until the end of the month in which they turn age 35, if still a full-time student. What is the United Healthcare phone app and what information can be found on there? Download the United Healthcare app for free to your Apple or Android smartphone and you’ll get instant access to view your health plan details, generate a health plan ID card, check claims, or find a doctor. What is the liveandworkwell.com website used for? Oxford/UHC provides the liveandworkwell.com website as a way to find behavioral health providers. You can either register to log in or you can enter the site anonymously. If you enter the site anonymously, you will need to enter the Access Code – oxhp Do I have vision coverage? Yes, if you are enrolled in the Oxford/UHC health plan, you also have vision coverage. What is the coverage for glasses/contact lenses? You are entitled to a free vision exam once every 12 months. You are covered for one pair of glasses or one set of contact lenses every 24 months. The plan limits reimbursement to either glasses or contacts so the plan would cover one of those options but not both at the same time. If glasses/contacts are purchased from an in-network provider, coverage is 50% of the contracted rate. If glasses/contacts are purchased from an out-of-network provider, coverage is 50% of the billed rate. If I go to my eye doctor and then I go to a different provider to purchase my glasses or contact lenses, how do I apply my Oxford/UHC coverage to that purchase? Save your receipts and submit them along with an Oxford claim form, which can be found on the Employee Benefits page under Benefit Forms. Mail the claim form and receipts to Oxford using the address on the top of the form. How long do I have to submit a claims request to Oxford/UHC? The claims filing timeframe for our medical plan is 90 days from the date of service*. * Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, updated legislation has extended this timeframe until the earlier of, one year from the original due date or the end of the Outbreak Period. At this time, it is unclear what the end of the Outbreak Period will be. Dental Coverage What is the age limit for covered dependents under the dental plans? Under the Cigna dental PPO plan, dependents are covered until the end of the month in which they turn age 26 or until the end of the month in which they turn age 35, if still a full-time student. Under the Aetna dental HMO plan, dependents are covered until the end of the month in which they turn age 26 or, until the end of the month in which they turn age 30, if a still a full-time student. I heard there was some dental coverage available to dependents under the Oxford medical plan. What exactly is covered? The pediatric dental benefit, under the Oxford medical plan, covers cleaning (prophylaxis), examination, and fluoride treatment for members up to their 12th birthday, once per calendar year. Continuation of Coverage What is COBRA coverage and do I have any other options to continue health coverage? COBRA continuation coverage can become available to you and other members of your family when group health coverage would otherwise end. You may have other options available to you when you lose group health coverage. For example, you may be eligible to buy an individual plan through the Health Insurance Marketplace. By enrolling in coverage through the Marketplace, you may qualify for lower costs on your monthly premiums and lower out-of-pocket costs. How long do I have to elect COBRA? The deadline for electing COBRA is normally the later of sixty days from the date the COBRA notice was mailed to you or the date you lost coverage.* * Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, updated legislation has extended this timeframe until the earlier of, one year from the original due date or the end of the Outbreak Period. At this time, it is unclear what the end of the Outbreak Period will be. 403(b) Plan What are the 403(b) deferral limits for 2021? The IRS issues the deferral limits each year and for 2021, if you are under age 50, the maximum amount that you can contribute to the 403(b) Plan is $19,500. If you will be age 50 or over by the end of 2021, you can contribute up to $26,000. How do I enroll in the University’s 403(b) Retirement Plan? You can enroll in the plan at any time by completing a Salary Reduction Agreement form and returning it to the Benefits Office. The form can be found on the Employee Benefits page under “Benefit Forms.” How do I make changes to my plan if I am already enrolled and contributing? If you are already enrolled in the plan and would like to change the amount you have deducted from your paycheck, you may do so by completing a new Salary Reduction Agreement and submitting it to the Benefits Office. Please note that you may only make changes once every calendar quarter. If you would like to change how your money is invested in the retirement plan, please contact your carrier directly. To contact TIAA, please call (800) 732-8353. To contact Fidelity, please call (800) 642-7131. Am I able to take a withdrawal from the 403(b) Retirement Plan while still employed? The intention of the 403(b) Retirement Plan is to save for retirement but, there are provisions for participants to request a withdrawal while still employed. A participant’s eligible contributions may be withdrawn at any time after the participant attains age 59 ½ of if the participant encounters a financial hardship (as defined by the IRS and as detailed in the 403(b) Retirement Plan Document). Am I able to take a loan from the 403(b) Retirement Plan while still employed? The intention of the 403(b) Retirement Plan is to save for retirement but, there are provisions for participants to request a loan. A participant may borrow up to 45% of total accumulation in his or her TIAA account and may borrow up to 50% of total accumulation in his or her Fidelity account. Generally, the minimum loan amount is $1,000 and the maximum loan amount is $50,000. Flexible Spending and Qualified Transportation Expense Accounts How are rollover funds handled with the Flexible Spending Plan? With the Health FSA, you are permitted to have a maximum rollover amount of $550 of unused expenses. Dependent Care FSA cannot be rolled over. How long do I have to submit FSA and Dependent Care FSA claims? You have until December 31st each year to use your FSA for expenses incurred during the year. You will then have until March 31st * of the following year to submit the previous year’s claims for reimbursement. * Due to the Coronavirus Pandemic, updated legislation has extended this timeframe until the earlier of, one year from the original due date, or the end of the Outbreak Period. At this time, it is unclear what the end of the Outbreak period will be. What are the Flexible Spending limits for 2021? The Health FSA limit for 2021 will be $2,750. The Dependent Care FSA limit will remain at $5,000. Are the Health FSA and Dependent Care FSA benefits that continue from year to year? Health FSA and Dependent Care FSA elections do not automatically continue from year to year. You must actively enroll each year during Open Enrollment and your FSA elections will be in effect from January 1 through December 31, unless you experience a Life Event. What are Life Events for Health FSA and DC FSA plans? Qualifying Life Events include the following and require documentation of the event: Marriage, Divorce/Separation, Birth/Adoption, Death of a spouse or dependent child, change in employment status of employee or spouse. What are some additional events that would allow for changes to DCFSA? These additional events will also require documentation, from the employee, of the reason for the change. A participant may elect to switch day care centers because of: concerns around administration, quality or staff turnover; a participant has more than one child in day care and wants all children to receive care at the same center; a child being wait-listed for a center and a spot opens; a participant wishes to enroll a child in a newly opened facility; a change in participant’s residence or work location makes a new center more convenient; a center requires that a child be moved due to unsafe behavior or parent’s frequent late pick-ups. A participant may also be able to change the amount of DCFSA for the year due to change in home-care provider; a participant or spouse has a change in work schedule which changes the hours of child-care required; a child of divorced parents switches residences between parents. Dependent care elections, that are changed during the year, cannot be decreased to an amount that is below what a participant has already contributed year to date. Leaves How do I request a Leave? The reasons for needing a Leave can vary. You may need a Leave for your own pregnancy or for a serious health condition. The need for Leave could also be to bond with your newborn or to care for a family member who has a serious health condition. Please contact the Benefits Office (718-990-2363) at least 30 days prior to the beginning of the leave, if foreseeable. The Benefits Office will discuss the Leave options available and send you all appropriate paperwork that must be completed by your physician, or the physician for your family member. Additional information on Leaves may be found in the Employee Handbook and in the Leaves section of the Human Resources Policy Manual for Staff and Administrators. Faculty members may refer to the Leaves section of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for further information. Compensation Click to Open How do I find out my title, grade and salary range? Have a discussion with your supervisor or manager. He/she has this information and it can be shared with you. If your supervisor or manager does not have the information, ask him/her to contact the Compensation Department. What forms do I need to complete to request new positions, process salary changes, and make other personnel changes? Use the following forms, which are accessible online, for the personnel and salary actions listed: NOV (Notice of Vacancy Form) Vacant Position New Position PCF (Personnel Change Form) Title/Grade Changes Salary Adjustments, Promotions Department and Budget Code Changes New Hire These forms should be sent to your department’s Human Resources Services Director. If you are unsure as to whom that is, please call 718-990-1502 for assistance. What is a Position Description? A summary of the most important and essential functions of the job. How do I prepare a Position Description? A Position Description template is available for direct input on the HR Forms web page. Once you complete the template, you can send it in electronic form and/or print out the description. If you require assistance to complete the position description, please contact the Compensation Office or the Human Resources Services area at ext. 1502. What is a Position Evaluation? The Compensation Office performs an evaluation by researching and compiling data to determine market value of internal positions. When should a supervisor request a Position Evaluation from Human Resources? Position evaluations should be requested from HR for the following reasons: Job responsibilities have significantly changed in a current position. You wish to upgrade/downgrade a vacant existing position. You wish to promote an employee. You wish to establish a new position. Reorganization within a department/unit Important: Before a supervisor requests a position evaluation, the supervisor should obtain prior approval from his/her Vice President to ensure there is support for such request. How do I request a position evaluation? Contact your Human Resources Services Director. If you are unsure as to whom that is, please contact 718-990-1502 for assistance. Provide the position description and any supporting documentation you may have. For example, the following items are very helpful in conducting evaluations: Organization Chart Professional Compensation Study Background/History The Compensation Office will conduct a position evaluation and provide you with our findings and recommendation. Submit a Personnel Change Form (PCF) to the Human Resources Services Department once you receive department approval. Notify the employee only after you have received the proper approvals. What factors are considered during a position evaluation? Positions are evaluated using any combination of: Market Data Published survey data Informal telephone surveys Online survey data Internal Data Review of similar positions within department and organization Job Content Responsibilities, skills, experience level, reporting relationship, etc. Position Description Review Knowledge, experience, complexity, impact, communication with others, direction/supervision of others, privy to confidential information Please refer to Compensation Policy #302 (Job Evaluation) in the HR Policy Manual for additional details. What types of compensation programs are available to administrators and staff? There are three programs through which administrators and staff may receive merit increases and other recognition rewards, all of which are processed through the Compensation Department: Merit increases are awarded based upon an employee’s job performance, as outlined in the Partnership for Performance (PFP) program. To be eligible, an employee’s performance must meet or exceed expectations. Other factors that influence the merit increase allocation may include internal equity and salary positioning within the current salary range. Merit increase budget considerations include the University’s overall performance (student enrollment & financial condition) and benchmarking of peer schools. Please refer to Policy #303 (Merit Review) in the HR Policy Manual for additional details. Exceptional Performance Awards (EPA) are designed to reward exceptional performance displayed throughout the year, encourage on-going exceptional performance levels by an individual, retain outstanding talent, and encourage support of institutional goals. This program is intended for the top 25% of the University’s high performers. Merit increases and EPAs are generally awarded each year during October. The EPA Recommendation form is available on the HR Forms web page. Please refer to Policy #305 (Exceptional Performance Awards) in the HR Policy Manual for additional details. Special Recognition Awards (SRA) are designed to immediately acknowledge and reward an employee or group of employees for “special” accomplishment(s) achieved, inspire others to put forth effort above and beyond the normal job duties, and encourage employees to support and advance institutional goals. These awards typically take the form of cash, and an employee may earn more than one SRA per year. To be eligible, employees must be meeting job expectations as defined in the Partnership for Performance process. Awards are tiered based upon the impact level and reflection of institutional goals and values. Forms are available on the HR Forms web page. Please refer to Policy #304 (Special Recognition Awards) in the HR Policy Manual for additional details. Equal Opportunity and Compliance Click to Open What is Equal Opportunity and Compliance? Equal Opportunity and Compliance is the department within Human Resources that enforces the University’s Policy against Bias, Discrimination, and Harassment (Policy #704). The Policy is intended to provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging discrimination and harassment. Equal Opportunity and Compliance also handles all immigration matters for our employees both locally and abroad and ensures employment compliance for international sites. In addition, the department facilitates the relationship with our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a benefit that provides free, confidential assistance to employees experiencing personal issues affecting their work performance. Moreover, the department is responsible for risk mitigation through ongoing training, communications, internal audits, and proactive adherence to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including oversight for University-wide Title IX compliance. Where can I find the University's Policy against Bias, Discrimination, and Harassment (Policy # 704)? This policy can be found in the Employee Handbook, in the Human Resources Policy Manual, in the Student Handbook, and is also linked on the Equal Opportunity and Compliance page of the Human Resources Web site. Policy #704 prohibits “legally protected” status from discrimination and harassment. What if I’m feeling harassed or uncomfortable, but I’m not sure if it’s based on a “legally protected” status? You should raise any behavior that makes you feel uncomfortable or harassed. A subsequent investigation may find that the behavior isn’t addressed in policy #704 as harassment or discrimination, but is still problematic behavior and not tolerated on our campus. Such behavior may be addressed by your immediate supervisor, department head, faculty department Chair or Dean, Dean of Student Life or member of HR Services, as appropriate. What should I do if I have a complaint of discrimination or sexual harassment? The University’s Policy against Bias, Discrimination, and Harassment (Policy #704) addresses ways to report a complaint. You can also complete the online complaint form available at https://www.stjohns.edu/reportbias or contact the Equal Opportunity and Compliance office directly at 718-990-1865 (press 4). I’m not ready to discuss this; can I wait a while? You decide when you are ready to discuss the incident or behavior that is making you uncomfortable. The sooner you raise your concern and address the situation, however, the easier it will be to resolve it. Do I have to try to stop the behavior myself, first? If you are comfortable speaking to the individual whose behavior is offensive, of course you may do so. Many people don’t realize that their behavior, jokes or comments are offensive and will stop it and even apologize! If speaking to an individual doesn’t stop the behavior, or if you don’t feel comfortable approaching the individual (or group of individuals), then seek help from Equal Opportunity and Compliance. How will I know that anyone will believe me if I speak up? Good faith complaints are looked into to determine the facts. Remember that anyone raising a concern or filing a complaint is protected by law from retaliation. What can I expect when I contact Equal Opportunity and Compliance? Contact us to schedule an appointment to discuss your situation. We normally set aside an hour to speak with you. When you visit us, we will ask you to describe your situation and your view of what happened. Equal Opportunity and Compliance is available to provide guidance and will keep information received in consultation confidential to the fullest extent possible and as allowed by law. Discretion will be used by Equal Opportunity and Compliance staff in communicating sensitive information and individuals receiving the information will be urged to use discretion in order to protect the person who reported the situation to the fullest extent possible. Retaliation against any person who reports a situation that is then referred for investigation is prohibited and will not be tolerated. Acts of retaliation should be reported to Equal Opportunity and Compliance immediately. For more information about the bias reporting process, click here. What is the Employee Assistance Program? The EAP is a free, confidential benefit designed to help full-time faculty, administrators and staff and their household or family members handle life’s challenges successfully – from routine concerns to major crises. Our EAP is a holistic life service with something for everyone - from traditional counseling for personal stress to legal and financial consultation, to referrals related to caregiving, substance abuse, adoption services, and everyday needs. For more information, visit Work-Life Programs on the Human Resources website, or go directly to Corporate Counseling Associates, our EAP service provider at https://www.powerflexweb.com/1073/login.html (login with company code: STJOHNS). How can I get in touch with an EAP counselor? Professionals who work for Corporate Counseling Associates, our service-provider, are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by calling the help line at (800) 833-8707. In-person counseling can be scheduled at convenient locations locally and nationwide. All appointments with a counselor must be made in advance by calling the help line or using the website at https://www.powerflexweb.com/1073/login.html (login with company code: STJOHNS). All meetings with a professional counselor are confidential. HR Services: Employee and Manager point of contact Click to Open How can HR Services help me? As Human Resources generalists, the HR Services (HRS) team is the principal point of contact for employees throughout their life cycle at St. John’s University. HRS provides guidance and support to managers and employees to facilitate positive work relations, address a variety of issues within departments, such as performance, staffing, employee engagement, workflow, conflict, etc., and put plans in place to improve conditions and enhance service levels. In collaboration with leadership, HRS focuses on the University’s priority of retaining talent. By combining workforce analyses with the outcomes of interviews we conduct with current and departing employees, the HRS team assesses and aims to anticipate employees’ needs and challenges and partner effectively with managers to support workforce demands and changes. The HR Services frequently asked questions are currently under review. Visit Human Resources Services on the web for information on assistance available for managers and employees. Payroll Click to Open What is the social security wage base ? The Social Security Administration has announced that the 2014 social security wage base will be $117,000 with a maximum contribution of $7254.00. As in prior years, there is no limit on wages subject to Medicare tax (1.45%). In addition, wages over $200,000 will be subject to an additional 0.9% Medicare tax. Why are my earnings and benefits for 1997 not complete on Web for Employees? In July 1997, the University converted all our Payroll data from our then payroll service provider ADP to an in-house system. The data from ADP for calendar year 1997 was posted as one total. Therefore, only one amount will be shown for January to June of 1997. How are my federal taxes calculated? Federal taxes for most wages are determined by marital status and number of dependents. Payroll uses a tax table provided by the Internal Revenue Service to calculate wages. Employees can increase or reduce their federal tax by updating this information via our self-service option in UIS or MySJU. Please note, severance and bonus wages are calculated based on a flat percentage rate. How is Graduate tuition and tuition for non-dependents taxed? Please see our FAQ on Taxable Tuition Benefits. How can I get Direct Deposit of my paycheck? Direct deposit is available to all employees. With direct deposit your paycheck is deposited into your bank account. This is the safest and fastest way to receive your payment. There is no cost and you can choose any bank. For more information on this free benefit, contact the Payroll office, sign-up by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. Who is responsible for maintaining my sick and vacation time balances? Sick and vacation time is accrued differently, depending on your classification and length of service. (Refer to Policy Manual for specific accrual methods). It is the responsibility of both the employee and the department to maintain records of vacation and sick time balances for all eligible employees. The Payroll Office can verify time used and accrued time when the employee leaves the University. When I terminate my employment, will I receive any sick and vacation time I have accrued? You will be paid only for unused accrued vacation time. W-2 Frequently Asked Questions What is the W2? Form W2 is the Wage and Tax Statement issued by St. John’s University (employer) to all employees. The form reports all income and tax withheld for the calendar year (January 1 to December 31). What other tax forms will I receive from St. John’s? You may also receive from the Payroll Office a 1042-S tax form. This form is issued to foreign persons with income subject to withholding. In addition, the Business Affairs Office distributes 1099-MISC for miscellaneous income and 1098-T form for tuition payments. For more information on these forms, please contact the Business Affairs Office at 718-990-2406. How is the information on the W2 used? STJ is required to submit W2 information to the Social Security Administration and all taxes withheld to the IRS. The employee is responsible for filing with the IRS and State taxing authority his/her income tax. Four copies of the W2 are issued to each employee. Why do the year-to-date gross wages on my paycheck not match the Box 1 wages on my W2? The wages reported in box 1 include only taxable gross wages. You must add all pre-tax deduction such as medical, dental, flex plan, and 403(b) contributions. In addition, if you had any taxable life or tuition remission you must subtract these amounts to calculate your actual gross wages. You are only responsible for reporting the amount in box 1 when filing your personal federal income tax. How much tax did I actually pay? The amount of federal income tax withheld from your calendar earnings is reported in box 2. Your state income tax withheld is reported in box 17. If you were a New York City resident for any part of the calendar year, your local income tax withheld is reported in box 19. How is my tax calculated? The amount of federal income tax withheld from every payroll check is based on what you elected as your filing status and the number of withholding exemptions you claim. This information is taken from the completed W4 form typically submitted at the time of hire. The form can be updated at any time by completing a new W4. The new W4 form replaces a previous completed form and will remain in effect until another form is completed and submitted to the Payroll Department. Post dated forms are not accepted. If your W2 form does not include an amount in box 2, you may review your filing status and the number of withholding allowances you are claiming and determine if changes are necessary. When will I receive my W2 form? W2 statements must be issued or mailed to employees on or before the 31st of January. Due to the large number of W2 produced, we typically mail the forms over a 3 day period based on last name. For faster access you can view and print your W2 by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS.. What is Advance EIC payment (box 9)? Advance earned income credit allows eligible employees with a qualified dependent (child or children) with income under the maximum limit established by the Internal Revenue Service to receive a monetary amount with every scheduled payroll check versus applying for a tax credit once a year when filing his/her federal income tax return. Eligible employees must complete a W5 - Earned Income Credit Form and submit it to Payroll Department. The W5 will remain valid throughout the calendar year that it is completed and must be renewed every year to continue participation. The W5 form can be found in the Human Resources Office (CCK building) or the IRS website www.irs.gov What is code E in box 12? Code E is the elective deferrals for your 403(b) salary reduction agreement. Under IRS section 403(b), the IRS allows for certain employee paid deductions for the purpose of retirement to be excluded from federal taxable wages. What is code C in box 12? Code C is the taxable cost of group-term life insurance. This cost is considered imputed income. If your employer paid life insurance is over the $50,000 limit, the amount over the limit is taxable and reported in boxes 1, 3 and 5. What is imputed income? IRS requires that certain items, provided by the employer, be reported as taxable compensation. Examples are taxable tuition benefits, certain types of moving expenses, and a portion of employer-paid group term life insurance. Why does the amount in Box 1 (federal taxable wages) not match Box 3 (social security taxable wages) and/or Box 5 (Medicare taxable wages)? Why does Box 3 not match Box 5? Each tax has a different calculation for taxable wages: Box 1 = Total Compensation minus pre-tax deductions, 403(b) deductions and imputed income. (No maximum) Box 3 = Total Compensation minus pre-tax deductions and imputed income. (see current social Security wage base) Box 5 = Total Compensation minus pre-tax deductions and imputed income. (No maximum) How do I report my dependent care (box 10) from my W2? Refer to IRS Form 2441, Child and Dependent Care Expenses, for instructions on how to report this information on your tax return. For additional information, contact your tax preparer or the IRS. Can I view my W2 online? After January 15, you can view your W2 on-line by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. What do I do if my address is wrong on my W2? An incorrect address does not invalidate your W2 and does not require a corrected W2. However, you should notify the Payroll Office or update this information by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. All employees can update and view personal and pay information including current and past W2s on-line by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. How do I request a reprint of my W2 because I did not receive it in the mail, lost it, or accidentally destroyed it? If you are no longer employed, call 718-990-1865 and select Payroll Office. A Payroll Representative will assist you. Replacement forms will be reprinted and mailed to you or you may pick-up the form in the Payroll Office. W2s will be reprinted on the 15th of each month. Due to the sensitive nature of information found on the W2 no form can be faxed or sent to a third party. When can I ask for a reprint of my W2? Your request may be submitted at any time after February 15. We will begin processing reprint requests the third week of February. Please note, for active emloyees W2s can be viewed and reprinted on-line by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. Who do I contact if I think my W2 is wrong? Please call 718-990-1865 and select Payroll Office. A Payroll Representative will assist you. Policies Click to Open Where can I find out about University policies that affect my employment? The Human Resources Policy Manual for Staff and Administrators is online is the supervisor's resource for policy information. The Employee Handbook is a practical reference guide that contains the policy summaries and employment information that pertain to all University staff and administrators. What information is in the HR Policy Manual? The manual contains policy information for administrators and staff in the following areas: Employment; Employee Training, Development, and Performance Management; Compensation; Time Off; Leave; Benefits; Employee Relations; Work Environment; Information Technology; and Operating/Administrative policies. Are Tuition Remission Benefits taxable? Please refer to the following policies 608A, 608AA, 608B and 608-BB. In addition, this link to Frequently Asked Questions sheet can answer most questions about taxable tuition benefits. I am a faculty member; does the Human Resources Policy Manual apply to me? No. The manual was written primarily for staff and administrators. There are some policies in the manual, however, that also apply to faculty, such as the Policy against Bias, Discrimination and Harassment. The “Scope” at the beginning of each policy identifies who is covered. For HR policies that apply specifically to faculty members, expand the Faculty Policies tab at the bottom of the policy page. If you are a faculty member who supervises administrative or staff employees, you should familiarize yourself with all the policies in the Manual for staff and administrators, not just the faculty policies. How are employees notified of new policies or policy updates? The Office of Human Resources updates existing policies and develops new policies year round and posts them to the HR Policy Manual. Once an update or new policy has been approved, it is posted to the HR Policy Manual online, and can be easily referenced from the Recent Policy Updates tab located at the bottom of the page. New policies and significant policy updates are also communicated directly to employees via email blast. The Employee Handbook online is updated regularly to reflect current policies and related employment information. What is the role of the Policy Review Committee and who are the members? The Policy Review Committee represents broad University leadership, and includes the following members: Provost; Executive Vice President for Mission; Vice President for Business Affairs, CFO and Treasurer; Vice President for Administration, Secretary and General Counsel; AVP for Human Resources, Chief Diversity Officer and Deputy General Counsel; Director of Equal Opportunity, Compliance and Title IX; Director of Human Resources Services; and Manager of Policy Development and Employee Communications. The Committee's purpose is to review and approve University policies affecting administrators and staff for inclusion in the Human Resources Policy Manual. The Committee is also involved in policy development efforts and policy revisions. Do the online HR Policy Manual and Employee Handbook replace the hard copy versions? Yes. The online resources contain the most comprehensive and current policies that apply to staff and administrators. Please discard old hard copies or return them to the Office of Human Resources. What do I do if I have questions about something that is written in the Human Resources Policy Manual? A “Responsible Office” is designated in the header of each policy. The office identified is responsible for administering that policy, and is the one you should contact if you have questions. General questions can be directed to HR Services at 718-990-1502. Who do I contact to suggest a new policy or policy revision or if I find an error? You are encouraged to discuss suggestions with your supervisor first. He or she may have valuable thoughts and input. You can also contact the office responsible for such a policy. If you notice an error in a policy, please contact HR Services at 718-990-1502. Who do I contact if I disagree with a policy? You are encouraged to discuss your disagreement with your supervisor first. If you do not feel that you have been able to resolve your issues in this way, you should follow the procedures listed in the Complaint Resolution policy, #701. Training and Development Click to Open What is a Training and Development certificate and how will earning a certificate benefit me? The St. John's Office of Human Resources provides employees with significant professional development enhancement through three Training and Development certificate programs. The programs consist of a curriculum of Core and Elective workshops that employees must complete in order to graduate. At a special graduation ceremony held every two years, employees who have successfully completed the requirements of a certificate program are formally recognized and awarded a framed Certificate of Completion and a personalized plaque. The three program tracks include a Professional Development Certificate for staff and administrators, a Management Development Certificate for managers and a Continuing Education Certificate for any manager, administrator, or staff member who has completed the requirements of the other two certificates. The certificate programs support the University’s strategic goal to build an organization of strong leaders where faculty, administrators and staff are enabled, motivated and engaged. The programs also directly support the Development Plan component of the University’s performance management system by creating a clear path for professional growth for each employee. How a Certificate Program Can Benefit You: Build skills and knowledge to use in your current and future jobs Enhance your credentials and your resume Have a ready-made Development Plan Network with colleagues in other departments and campuses Attend free courses during regular business hours Receive a framed Certificate of Completion to proudly display Enjoy the excitement and rewards of life-long learning Management Development Certificate This certificate is for administrators whose primary responsibility is managing a St. John’s University function and supervising staff and/or administrators. Supervisors must complete the University Core, the Management Development Core, and at least 6 Electives. Refer to the Certificate Programs listed on the Training and Development web page for a list of the required workshops. Professional Development Certificate - (see page 2 of the document) This certificate is for full- and part-time staff and non-supervisory administrators. Eligible employees must complete the University Core, the Professional Development Core, and at least 8 Electives. Refer to the Certificate Programs listed on the Training and Development web page for a list of the required workshops. Continuing Education Certificate This certificate is available to any manager, administrator, or staff member who has already completed a professional or management development certificate. Eligible employees and managers must complete the 8 core workshops and 6 electives. Refer to the Continuing Education Certificate listed on the Training and Development web page for a list of the required workshops. How can I check my training profile to determine if I’m eligible to receive a certificate? Log in to https://signon.stjohns.edu, and click on UIS. Click on Employee Tab Scroll down and click on Employee Workshops Click on HR Employee Training Click on Training Profile (upper-right side of screen) Compare your current progress with the requirements of the Certificate that you are pursuing What do I do if my Training Profile is not up-to-date? You may email the Training Assistant at [email protected] or phone 718-990-2330. May I receive a certificate even if I plan to leave the University? As long as all the certificate requirements are met prior to your termination date, you may request to receive a certificate. Recruitment Click to Open Where can I find a list of open positions on the St. John’s University website? Open positions are listed on the Recruitment page under our Apply for Jobs section. Potential applicants have the option of viewing Faculty or Administrative/Staff positions, and all current St. John’s employees should use the Internal Employee Career Portal. Visit Human Resources on the web and click on Recruitment to learn more. What types of positions are posted? Generally, all types of administrator and staff positions are posted as job openings become available. In addition, some faculty positions are also posted on our Recruitment website. There may be times when a position is not posted, which may occur when there is a need for specialized skills or when internal changes are taking place. How often are the positions updated online? Positions are added and removed as they are received and filled. To improve your chances of securing a position, check the site frequently. How do I apply for a position posted online? Instructions explaining how to apply are provided with each position posted. Positions may include a link for potential employees to apply online, or an e-mail address and mailbox so that potential applicants may send a cover letter and resume/CV. You should receive a reply acknowledging receipt of your submission. The reply does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Recruitment function or hiring manager to be offered an interview. Only candidates that are being considered will be contacted. What if I would like to send a resume for consideration for any open position? Sending an unsolicited resume is not encouraged or recommended. We urge you to review the open positions and apply to those you feel fit your background, experience and skills. Can I apply for multiple positions at the same time? You may apply for multiple positions by following the instructions outlined for each specific position you have interest in, and there is no limit on the number of applications you can submit. Again, you are encouraged to be selective and focus on those open positions that are related to your experience, background and skills. Does the University have any pre-employment requirements? Certain positions may require testing in the Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Access) to determine the level of technical competence for a particular position. Additionally, any offer of employment is subject to receipt by St. John's University of satisfactory references, verification of employment and education. Newly hired candidates may find additional necessary paperwork on our HR Forms page (there is a section on the page for new hire paperwork). Are there any internal transfer requirements for internal applicants? Yes, for current St. John’s employees there are requirements related to time spent in your current position, whether you are within the new employee Orientation Period and your current performance level. For further information, refer to your Employee Handbook or see policy #124 in the HR Policy Manual. From a hiring manager’s perspective, what should I do if I have an open position to fill? If you are a St. John’s University hiring manager and have questions about the hiring process, you should visit the Recruitment page. A list of contact staff is located at the bottom of the page. Student Employment Click to Open Where can I find answers to my student-related questions concerning Coronavirus Disease? Link to our Keeping St. John's Healthy page. Where is the Student Employment office located? Student Employment is located in the University Center on the Queens campus and is a function of the Office of Human Resources. For more information visit Student Employment on the web. Where are student worker positions listed? Open student worker positions are listed on the Job Posting section of our Student Employment pages. Be sure to read the Guide to Student Employment. What do the different job categories mean? Two types of student employment positions are available. Students may apply for Regular Student Worker or College Work-Study positions, depending on eligibility: Regular Student Worker These positions are funded by the employing department. Students who are not eligible for a work-study grant may apply for a Regular Student Worker position. However, there are relatively few positions available in this category. Academic progress is a requirement for continued eligibility. College Work-Study These positions are funded by the Federal Work-Study (FWS) program and grants are awarded to matriculated students, with special emphasis on full-time students with financial need. Academic progress is a requirement for continued eligibility. Students need to apply for a grant in order to be eligible for college work-study positions: see instructions to check your eligibility. How often are student worker positions updated? Student worker positions are added and removed as they are received and filled. However, many student worker opportunities become available at the beginning of the semester. To improve your chances of securing a position, check the site frequently and apply early. Do I need prior work experience? No prior experience is required for student employment. The available positions are designed to provide students with valuable learning experience and to help offset the cost of tuition and college expenses. As a student worker, you will gain basic skills in a variety of disciplines. How do I apply for a job? First, learn more by reading the Guide to Student Employment. Next, follow the four steps to apply provided on the Student Employment web page. What do I do once I have been offered and have accepted a position? Once a student has accepted a position, he/she must contact the Student Employment Manager to complete employment processing. See below for contact information. Do I have to apply for a position every year? No, students do not need to re-apply every year if they remain in the same department. Students are eligible to transfer to a new department after one full semester of employment. Can I keep my same position for all four years? Students may be eligible to stay with the same department all four years; however, this is not a requirement and often depends on a student’s interests, as well as the department’s needs. If I transfer to a new department, do I have to re-apply for employment? If a student wishes to transfer, the student must apply online to a posted position, follow up with a resume to the hiring manager and have an interview with the department. Students must fill out a new employment application, which can be found by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS, then go to the Student Employment page. Do I need to fill out paperwork every year? Students who receive college work-study need to reapply for their work-study award each year. A student’s FAFSA must be completed with the Student Financial Services Offices by early spring and the award will be posted to the student's UIS account under the Financial Aid tab. Once the student is awarded federal work-study, the student must complete a work-study Agreement. Freshman must sign the work-study agreement with the Office of Student Financial Services, while returning or continuing students can access and complete the work-study agreement by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. If I am accepted into a study abroad program, do I have to re-apply for employment? Students who wish to work while studying abroad must apply online to a posted position (available for the Rome and Paris campuses), follow up by sending a resume to the hiring manager, and interview with the department. Students must fill out a new employment application, located by logging in to the Sign-On Portal and clicking on UIS. How do I get paid? Student workers are required to submit hours worked to their supervisor via Web time entry. Students are on a bi-weekly pay schedule distributed by the St. John’s University Payroll Department. What if I do not qualify for Work-Study and all Regular Student positions are filled? The University Career Services provides employment resources to assist students in obtaining a job or an internship. Contact the University Career Services at 718-990-6375 or email [email protected]. What if I still have questions? For more information, refer to the Guide to Student Employment brochure and the Student Worker Resource Guide. If you have any further questions, contact the Student Employment Office at: Office of Human Resources The University Center, Suite C 8000 Utopia Parkway Queens, NY 11439 Hours Monday through Thursday 8:30 am – 5:00 pm Fridays until 3:00 pm Mary Cascio Student Employment Manager 718-990-2331 [email protected] Darren Russell Student Employment Specialist 718-990-2497 [email protected] Employee Resources Employee Assistance Program Employee Engagement Employee Handbook LGBTQIA+ Resources HR Forms Student Resources Diversity and Inclusion Student Employment Student Worker Resource Guide Announcements April 5, 2022 April is Stress Awareness Month January 3, 2022 COVID-19 Updates and Booster Requirement December 21, 2021 Employee Appreciation Week 2021 November 3, 2021 Did you know that November is Native American Heritage Month? September 21, 2021 Celebrating Hispanic Heritage MonthMore Announcements Footer CTA Visit Give Request Info News Events Admission SignOn (UIS, Email, Blackboard, MS) St. John's Connect Notice of Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunity Locations Queens Staten Island Manhattan Rome Paris Limerick Resources Safety Information Security and Compliance Employers [email protected] John's Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Policies Webmail For Students Career Services Academic Calendar Bookstore Title IX Office of the Registrar Contact Us Admission: 718-990-2000 8000 Utopia Parkway, Queens, NY 11439 Choose Language Select LanguageEnglishAfrikaansAlbanianArabicArmenianAzerbaijaniBasqueBelarusianBengaliBosnianBulgarianCatalanCebuanoCroatianCzechDutchEsperantoEstonianFilipinoFinnishFrenchGalicianGeorgianGermanGreekGujaratiHaitian CreoleHausaHebrewHindiHmongHungarianIcelandicIgboIndonesianIrishItalianJapaneseJavaneseKannadaKhmerKoreanLaoLatinLatvianLithuanianMacedonianMalayMalteseMaoriMarathiMongolianNepaliPersianPolishPortuguesePunjabiRomanianSerbianSlovakSlovenianSomaliSpanishSwahiliTamilTeluguThaiTurkishUkrainianUrduVietnameseWelshYiddishYorubaZulu Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok © 2022 St. John's University. All rights reserved. St. John’s University admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the University. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs.