Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Italian Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Italian Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Italian Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Italian Develop cultural competence, fluency and literacy with the Undergraduate Certificate in Italian in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Learn to effectively communicate in Italian with confidence and cultivate your writing, reading and listening skills with this 20-credit undergraduate certificate. Italian is an official language in several European countries including Italy and Switzerland, as well as a global language spoken by countries around the world. It is instrumental in the study of art, music and history. Build proficiency in the Italian laguage through a series of interactive language courses in which grammar and patterns of oral communication are taught. Use a variety of texts to build a strong vocabulary and establish cultural awareness. Temple’s Italian for Business course prepares students for professional life abroad through its focus on the culture, customs and manners of Italians in the business world. Students gain a competitive edge in today’s global marketplace with the Italian Undergraduate Certificate. Having proficiency in a second language can increase your professional opportunities and heighten your cultural awareness. Classes & Curriculum The Undergraduate Certificate in Italian is awarded at the completion of your bachelor’s program. It cannot be awarded as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of your bachelor’s degree program. All courses are conducted in Italian to help students quickly acclimate to the language. Courses offered as part of the curriculum include Italian Language I and II, Intermediate Italian I and II, and Italian for Business. Learn more about the Italian Certificate courses. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Art History MA* Business Administration MBA** Business Administration PhD** Liberal Arts MLA *Tyler School of Art and Architecture **Fox School of Business Careers Italy is the eighth largest economy in the world, and the third largest in the European Union. Thousands of American companies do business with and have offices in Italy. The country is a leader in fields including auto manufacturing, culinary arts, electromechanical machinery, graphic design, furniture design and shipbuilding. Students in the Undergraduate Certificate in Italian program are prepared to pursue careers in the following professional areas. Business Education Government service Healthcare International law Journalism Military Nonprofits Public relations Translation Travel and tourism Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Italian Undergraduate Certificate, contact the following staff member. Michelle Xu is an administrator in the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-5628 Email: xu.michelle@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Italian Department. Cristina Gragnani is chair of the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-1816 Email: gragnani@temple.edu Stephanie Smith is the coordinator in the Italian Department. Phone: 215-204-1261 Email: ssmith14@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ITAL-CR2+ Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Italian Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info