Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Search Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Health Care Positions UM employees - internal applicants (non-students) Staff positions - external applicants Faculty positions - external applicants Temporary/Per Diem Staff Positions FAQs UHealth FAQs Working at the U Benefits and Wellness About HR Careers Home Careers UHealth Employee Referral Program AAA UHealth Employee Referral Program Refer a friend and earn up to $2,500* on select positions. UHealth—the University of Miami Health System always seeks the best! As one of them, you know how to find talented, dedicated individuals that share our values. All full-time and part-time open positions are eligible. Receive up to $2,500* per referral with no limits. Review the bonus amount for each position here. Referral Bonus Payment: Hourly employees: On the same date the referred employee receives their first paycheck. Salaried employees: On their first paycheck following the date the referred employee receives their first paycheck. START REFERRING TODAY FAQs Earn up to $2,500 for your referral! We're looking for individuals who are qualified, dedicated professionals who love what they do. Review frequently asked questions. Read more Job Fairs Health care careers As South Florida’s only university-based medical system, UHealth is a vital component of the community that is leading the next generation of health care. Read more Search Health Care Careers SUPPORT If you have questions about the UHealth Employee Referral program, contact the Medical HR Recruitment team at uhealth-talentacquisition@miami.edu or your HR Partner. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Human Resources Coral Gables, FL 33124 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Gables/RSMAS: 305-284-3798 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Miller School: 305-243-6482 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Benefits and Payroll (Total Rewards) Representative: 305-284-3004 Fax: 305-284-8035 Tools & Resources About UM Workday myUM Kronos Performance Management UM Culture Business Development Program EO/Employment Laws Equal Opportunity/ADA UM Network Division of Business and Finance UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch Title IX & Gender Equity Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect with Life@theU social-facebook social-twitter social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices