HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Students Home Permit Rates Bike & Walk Clemson Recyclery Douthit Transit Options Summer Research Assistant Permits Bike & Walk Clemson Clemson BikeShare Transform the way you travel with Clemson's newest transportation program, Clemson BikeShare. Become an annual member today to join the campus bike sharing community that serves students, faculty, and staff 24/7. Check out a bike, go for a ride, and check the bike back in to any station unlimited times during your membership. The first 2 hours of each ride are free! Download and review the Assumption of Risk and Release from Liability form here. Clemson ReCyclery A bike community for those who have them. Getting bikes for those who don't. Clemson University Walk Zones People on bicycles, skateboards, skates and scooters must dismount as they pass through the walk zone, preventing collisions that could hurt pedestrians and riders alike. Project PAW (free bike registration) Students register their bicycles with Clemson University Police Department and are marked with an identifying number and decal. This allows students to register the serial numbers of their valuables for easy access in the event any of these items is lost or stolen. Campus Bikeways Master Plan Developing a bikeway system supports the University’s commitment to environmental sustainability and provides engaging opportunities to promote health and wellness for active lifestyles for members of the Clemson community. This plan outlines a comprehensive network of bike lanes, shared roadways, shared use paths and mountain biking trails that connect the entire extended campus. Student Handbook Bicycle Policy Reviews the South Carolina laws and regulations associated with bicycling. Campus Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) CORE provides an equipment rental program including a bike program. They also host instructional programs and trips to get the most out of your rental. Parking and Transportation Services G01-C Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster