Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Research Featured Work Research Featured Work WARNING: Parents on Social Media Three Cornell undergrads collaborated on an interdisciplinary class project in Spring 2020. The experience changed their academic trajectories. Research Featured Work Coding Justice—Law in the Digital Age Can the legal system take lessons from computer science? James Grimmelmann explores software’s ability to regulate human behavior. Research Featured Work Algorithms Based on Human Perception Kavita Bala has created a new generation of AIs by taking a physics-based approach to how humans perceive the world. From the laboratory bench to the hospital bedside and from cultural evolution to concepts in sustainability, our researchers and scholars are translating discovery into meaningful, measurable impact that is changing the world for the better. Explore Cornell Research Research Around the University Every Street Has Stories To Tell Every Street Has Stories To Tell Keep reading Research & Innovation Minimum wage hike boosts customer experience Minimum wage hike boosts customer experience Keep reading Research & Innovation Seven assistant professors win NSF early career awards Seven assistant professors win NSF early career awards Keep reading Research & Innovation Undergrad's project part of effort to save Javan rhinos Undergrad's project part of effort to save Javan rhinos Keep reading Research & Innovation Aditya Deshpande ’22 wins Cornell Concerto Competition Aditya Deshpande ’22 wins Cornell Concerto Competition Keep reading Research & Innovation Freeze! Researchers develop new protein crystallography tool Freeze! Researchers develop new protein crystallography tool Keep reading Research & Innovation NIH extends funding of research into deadly Nipah virus NIH extends funding of research into deadly Nipah virus Keep reading Research & Innovation Commercialization fellows working on market-ready tech Commercialization fellows working on market-ready tech Keep reading Research & Innovation Classics scholar awarded Guggenheim fellowship Classics scholar awarded Guggenheim fellowship Keep reading Research & Innovation Newly found bacteria fights climate change, soil pollutants Newly found bacteria fights climate change, soil pollutants Keep reading Research & Innovation Undergraduate Undergraduate Graduate Postdoctoral Research, life-changing experiences, and community engagement are hallmarks of a Cornell undergraduate education. “I think none of us anticipated that this would turn into anything more than a class paper, but we all felt that there was something there.” Undergraduate Research Cornell graduate students develop and contribute to transformative research projects that connect with local communities and have global benefits. “Knowing that what I'm doing will actually help decrease carbon emissions and contribute to mitigating the climate change impacts is very rewarding.” Graduate Research Cornell is training a next generation of solutions-oriented scholars and scientists to meet the urgent challenges facing our world today. “Plastics like polyethylene and polypropylene are great materials; we use them for everything. But the problem is their strong properties, which make them so great for so many applications, also mean they don’t degrade…. We have to do something about that.” Postdoctoral Research Radical Collaboration Multidisciplinary Partnerships The challenges of the world and the big picture of what’s possible rarely fit neatly into a single academic discipline. This is why we’ve made collaboration and communication a way of life at Cornell. We foster a community of renowned scholars that spans disciplines, locations, and industries in order to convert promising ideas and innovations into results that truly matter. Extreme Talent The Best & Brightest Faculty Talented researchers and top scholars know that teaching and learning are intrinsic to one another. That's why they come to Cornell. They know they can push the boundaries of discovery by engaging with students who, in turn, engage with and challenge them. Michael Goldstein Developmental Psychology College of Arts and Sciences Lisa Kaltenegger Astronomy College of Arts and Sciences Rick Johnson Electrical and Computer Engineering College of Engineering Watch with audio description Martha Field Nutritional Sciences College of Human Ecology Michael Goldstein Michael Goldstein Lisa Kaltenegger Rick Johnson Martha Field Research Examples Research Support and Funding Support for everything from proposal development to grant management—and all the administrative issues in between. Centers and Institutes More than 100 interdisciplinary research organizations bring students and faculty together to pursue research, teaching, and outreach. Labs and Facilities Millions of dollars of funding go into our labs every year. Hundreds of inventions, patents, licenses, copyrights, and plants emerge every year. Now we just need you. Cornell Global Research Stories Cornell research delivers results that matter all around the world. skip over Google map Australia Male lyrebirds snare mates with ‘acoustic illusion’ Researchers discover that Australia’s superb lyrebird males imitate the panicked alarm calls of a mixed-species flock of birds while they are courting and even while mating with a female. Read the Story Alaska Historic Alaskan Tlingit 1804 battle fort site found Cornell and National Park Service researchers have pinpointed the exact location of a Tlingit fort in Sitka, Alaska used in 1804 to defend against Russian colonization forces. Read the Story Northern Asia Hold still, big cat: Vaccination could save Siberian tigers New research out of the College of Veterinary Medicine has revealed that vaccination of endangered Siberian tigers is the only practical strategy to protect these big cats from potentially deadly canine distemper virus. Read the Story Europe Study: European unions’ support varies for precarious workers In many cases, unions in Europe have helped nonunionized workers whose jobs are precarious, according to new Cornell research. Read the Story Research Links Research Gateways Research Centers, Institutes, Labs and Programs Undergraduate Research Graduate Study Corporate Gateways Center for Technology Licensing at Cornell (CTL) The Research Division Vice President for Research and Innovation Center for Technology Licensing at Cornell (CTL) Office of Sponsored Programs Center for Animal Resources and Education Office of Research Integrity and Assurance Research Administration Information Services Affiliated Centers Publications and Data Publications Cornell Chronicle Cornellians Contact Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation 222 Day Hall, Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 (607) 255-7200 vp_research@cornell.edu Continue Exploring … Back to top Plan a Visit Apply About Cornell Student Life Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube