Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Athletics Badgers are naturally active. On Game Day, we rock the stadium. From intramural leagues to jogs along the lake, explore the limitless recreational opportunities across campus. Where Badgers become champions With 23 Big Ten varsity teams, almost every day is Game Day for the Wisconsin Badgers. Catch the action and cheer on our next national champions. Learn more at UWBadgers.com Embrace your inner athlete Active Badgers of all skill levels can find opportunities through University Recreation & Wellbeing programs. Join a pickup game, try out for a competitive team, learn a sport, or drop in on a spin class — there’s a new experience waiting for you. Sport clubs Intramural teams Group fitness Outdoors clubs We believe in physical and mental fitness Explore health and wellness programs Sweat it out in our modern workout spaces There's no shortage of modern amenities for the fitness-forward Badger: 30,000 square feet of brand-new workout space, an Olympic-size pool, indoor tennis courts and tracks, outdoor synthetic turf fields, a recreational ice rink, and much more. Nicholas Recreation Center (The Nick) Opening in early 2023: Bakke Recreation & Wellbeing Center Nielsen Tennis Stadium The Shell Near West Fields Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu