Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home People JSG Community Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Tuition Rebate Graduating seniors may be eligible for a tuition rebate of up to $1,000 at graduation if they have attempted no more than three semester hours beyond the minimum number of hours required for the degree. Since calculating attempted hours is complex, we recommend that ALL graduating seniors who are Texas residents fill out the application. Longhorn Fixed-rate Tuition Rebate Resident and non-resident undergraduate students are eligible for the rebate if they are enrolled in the Longhorn Fixed Tuition program. Student must have attempted no more than three semester credit hours in excess of the minimum number of semester credit hours required to complete the degree under the catalog which they graduate. Students who want to receive the rebate must graduate within four calendar years for a four-year degree program or within five calendar years if the degree requires more than four years to complete. Students must complete at least 60 semester credit hours of coursework counted toward the degree in residence. Student must not have already received a bachelor’s degree. A student is required to apply for a tuition rebate prior to graduation. Application Use the same application for both rebates. Students may apply for either one, or both if eligible. An eligible student should submit an application to the Jackson School of Geosciences Student Services Office in JGB 2.102 in the same semester the student files an application for graduation. Tuition rebates may be reduced by the amount of any outstanding student loan owed to or guaranteed by the State of Texas. The application must be submitted by the official date of graduation. Tuition Rebate Application Form Submitting the Application By Hand If delivering by hand, deliver to the JSG Student Services front desk in JGB 2.102. By Email If emailing, signed forms may be scanned and sent to nicole.evans@jsg.utexas.edu. If you have any questions, please call 512-232-4544. By Mailing or Overnight Carrier Mail the form to the address below: The University of Texas at Austin Jackson School of Geosciences, Student Services Office ATTN: Tuition Rebate 2305 Speedway, Mailstop C1160 Austin, TX 78712 Criteria Students desiring to qualify for a tuition rebate are solely responsible for enrolling only in courses that will qualify them for the rebate. A student will be eligible for a partial rebate of their undergraduate tuition if ALL the following criteria are met: The student must not have enrolled at any institution of higher education before the Fall 1997 semester. At the time s/he earns a first undergraduate degree, the student must have attempted1 no more than three semester hours beyond the minimum number of hours required for the degree. Hours attempted1 include: All courses the student has undertaken, such as transfer credit2, credit earned by examination3, study abroad courses4, courses the student dropped or from which the student withdrew after the date the official enrollment count was taken, Optional internship and cooperative education courses, Courses the student failed, Courses the student repeated. If the student has earned credit-by-exam for more than nine hours of coursework, the hours in excess of nine are also counted as hours attempted. The student must have been a Texas resident and must have been eligible to pay resident tuition at all times while pursuing the degree. For students who enroll for the first time in the fall 2005 or later, a student must graduate within four calendar years for a four-year degree. Notes 1 Courses dropped for reasons that are determined by the institution to be totally beyond the control of the student shall not be counted. 2 Transfer work that was taken during high school (dual credit) shall not be counted. 3 The first nine (9) hours earned by examination (that is, credit earned on the basis of AP courses, CLEP or credit granted for high SAT or ACT scores) shall not be counted. 4 The first nine (9) hours earned through study abroad shall not be counted. People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Jackson School of Geosciences Workplace Issues Guidelines for Faculty, Research Scientists, Students, and Staff of the Jackson School of Geosciences, UT Austin Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader