Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Academics : Areas of Study Areas of Study The depth and breadth in fields of study at The University of Texas at Austin can be dizzying, but it's our size that will give you the room to challenge yourself as a scholar, artist, teacher, leader and researcher. Through our many degree programs, you'll have the opportunity to pursue your own path of learning while studying just about any subject you can think of. Undergraduate Degrees Explore our wide variety of undergraduate degrees, which span 13 colleges and schools and encompass more than 170 fields of study. Learn more Graduate Degrees Choose from more than 100 graduate fields of study offered through our many highly-ranked academic programs and departments. Learn more Law Degrees Receive a top-tier legal education at Texas Law, ranked among the best in the nation while providing the ultimate return on investment. Learn more Medical Degrees Dell Medical School seeks to recruit and train future physician leaders who want to revolutionize the way people get healthy and stay healthy. Learn more Intercollegial Degree Programs Computational Science, Engineering, and Mathematics (CSEM) Master of Fine Arts in Writing (MFA) Special Graduate Programs Dual Degree Programs Ad Hoc Interdisciplinary Degree Programs Portfolio Programs Colleges and Schools Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Other Academic Units Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences James A. Michener Center for Writers UTeach Natural Sciences UTeach Liberal Arts Extended Campus Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022