Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About SMU Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Moody School of Advanced & Graduate Studies Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President, Business and Finance Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President, Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Academic Offerings Administration Campus Profile Intercollegiate Athletics Location & Facilities Prominent Alumni Rankings & Recognition Student Life Undergraduate Costs Maps & Directions Maps & Directions Accessibility Building Addresses Campus Map Directions to SMU Download & Print Maps Parking at SMU SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Annual Report Contact SMU ☰ 2019-20 Annual Report SMU AboutSMU Annual Report Letter from Board Chair Letter from President Financial Report Donors Full Report PDF 2019-20 Annual Report In times of adversity, Mustangs rise to the challenge. SMU’s bold thinking and enterprising spirit empower leaders to shape the future. Our welcoming community attracts the curious and creative, inspires transformative research and works to improve our communities. Nestled in the heart of Dallas, SMU offers limitless opportunities to effect real change and solve 21st century problems. Welcoming Community A pathway to healing Richie Butler ’93, activist and pastor, creates opportunities for safe conversations about race to bridge the rifts in our society and provides much-needed services for the underserved in our community. Read More Cooking up something good The faculty mentors living in SMU’s 11 Residential Commons are building community by bringing a feeling of home – and the taste of homemade baked goods – to the college experience. Read More The power of scholarship For many students, college is an inevitable rite of passage on their way to adulthood. For others, it is an opportunity to explore a world of exciting possibilities. For Kaitlyn Contreras ’20, recipient of the Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School, it was a bit of both. Read More Elevating excellence Ray W. Washburne ’84 and Heather Hill Washburne established the new Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium with a $5 million commitment. It will house SMU’s men’s and women’s soccer teams, along with the track and field and cross-country teams. Read More Enterprising Spirit Making history on the Hilltop In high school, David Miller ’72, ’73 dreamed of playing basketball at SMU. Now, he and his wife, Carolyn, are helping current and future students pursue their dreams through a historic $50 million gift benefiting the Cox School of Business. Read More Student innovators Two SMU student teams are among the winners of $5,000 challenge grants from venture capital firm RevTech. The students designed programs to help make our campus safer during the pandemic. Read More Sensing a solution In the midst of a global pandemic, SMU engineers are safeguarding the security of users against attacks on their private information by detecting new types of ransomware. Read More Hacking the health crisis A new network of healthcare professionals and innovators are working together to solve problems, brainstorm solutions and find creative ways to navigate the world’s “new normal.” Read More SMU, Dallas and Beyond Shine a light Continuing a family legacy of philanthropic activism, Ashlee Hunt Kleinert ’88 is working to educate the public about the realities of sex trafficking and provide resources for its victims. Read More Funding legal innovation The same anonymous donor who established the Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation in 2014 has forged an exciting new path for the study of law and its relationship with the ever-changing technology landscape. Read More Serving our communities The year 2020 has seen lives and communities forever altered by economic uncertainty and unparalleled change. In the midst of the chaos, 10 SMU students focused on programs and research to help at-risk communities affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More Finding peace during a pandemic Ruben Habito, professor of world religions and spirituality, director of spiritual formation at SMU and founder of Dallas’ Maria Kannon Zen Center, has a suggestion for finding calm during the pandemic: practice meditation. Read More Research with Impact Inspiring the extraordinary A landmark $100 million gift from the Moody Foundation launched the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, fueling research and innovation in SMU’s newest degree-granting school. Read More Powering the future Bobby Lyle ’67 has designated $10 million to power the Lyle School of Engineering’s new strategic vision, combining innovation, agility and swift responses to shifts in technological capabilities with enduring institutional support. Read More Answering the call What started as a Zoom call between SMU and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine soon became a team effort to combat the novel coronavirus by deploying artificial intelligence, computer science and the data from more than 50,000 published scientific papers. Read More A creative journey Alice Heeren Sabato, a Ph.D. candidate in the Meadows School of the Arts and the 2020 recipient of the Alessandra Comini International Fellowship for Art History Studies, examines the relationship of art and architecture to the at-times crushing political realities surrounding them. Read More Donors Financial Report Annual Report Archive 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2015-2016 2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share