Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator TEACH GRANT Federal Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant The TEACH Grant Program provides grants of up to $4,000 a year to students who intend to teach full time in a high-need field at a public or private elementary or secondary school that the U.S. Department of Education has designated as having a high concentration of students from low-income families. The Grant is available for select programs and requires you to agree to fulfill certain teaching obligations – or risk having the grant converted to an unsubsidized loan. To be considered for the TEACH Grant, you must have filed a FAFSA, and be fully admitted in an eligible program. TEACH Grant Initial and Subsequent Counseling TEACH Grant Initial, and Subsequent Counseling acquaints the student with the TEACH Grant Program and the TEACH Grant service obligation. Agreement to Serve (ATS) Each award year, a TEACH Grant recipient must sign an Agreement to Serve (ATS) that explains that the recipient must teach full time for a total of four years within eight years of completing (or ceasing) enrollment in a TEACH Grant eligible program as a full-time highly qualified teacher in a low-income elementary or secondary school or educational service agency in a high-need field. The grant will convert to an unsubsidized loan in the future if contracted teaching obligations are not met. If this happens, interest accrual will be effective as of the date of the first TEACH disbursement. The TEACH grant is not included in financial aid offers but can be offered retroactively to eligible students during the award year. Specific eligible education programs have been determined in conjunction with the College of Education. Check with the College of Education on whether your credential program meets the criteria for the TEACH Grant. How to Apply for the TEACH Grant Once you have completed the FAFSA, follow these steps to apply for the TEACH Grant: 1. Complete the CSUF TEACH Grant Application 2. Complete the Online TEACH Grant Counseling 3. Complete the Agreement to Serve (ATS) Once these steps have been completed, the Financial Aid Office will review your eligibility and process your request. Funds from the TEACH Grant are not released until after Census, once your enrollment for the semester has been finalized. Please note, TEACH Grant disbursements will be prorated for less than full-time enrollment. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.