Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Faculty Academic Musicology Music Education Music Theory & Composition Performance BrassConductingKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal ArtsWoodwinds Popular Music Recording TechnologyMusic BusinessPerformance & SongwritingJazz Studies Lambuth Music & Entertainment Emeritus Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Faculty Music Education Faculty Music Education Faculty Ryan Fisher Music Education, Choral rfisher@memphis.edu Emily Frizzell Music Education, Choral Emily.Frizzell@memphis.edu Josef Hanson Music Education, Instrumental Area Coordinator Josef.Hanson@memphis.edu Sheryl Lane Music Education, Strings & Piano srlane@memphis.edu Recent Research & Creative Activity 2021 Josef Hanson received the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music’s Faculty Exceptional Teaching Award. Hanson, J. (2021). Research-to-resource: Confronting and overcoming music teacher burnout. Update: Applications of Research in Music Education, 40(1), 5-9. Fisher, R., Summitt, N. L., Koziel, E. B., & Hall, A. V. (2021). Influences on teacher efficacy of preservice music educators. International Journal of Music Education, 39(4), 394-409. 2020 Josef Hanson was named Managing Editor of the Journal of Arts Entrepreneurship Education, which is now housed at the University of Memphis. Josef Hanson completed his term as President of the Society for Arts Entrepreneurship Education (SAEE), the premier international organization supporting the teaching and learning of entrepreneurial skills to artists and musicians. Hanson, J. (2020). Best practices for mentoring in arts entrepreneurship education: Findings from a Delphi study. Entrepreneurship Education and Pedagogy, 4(2), 119-142. Hanson, J. (2020). Effectual thinking and music education: One view of creative adaptation in an underserved urban middle school. International Journal of Music Education, 38(4), 625-643. Ryan Fisher was named President-Elect of the Tennessee Music Education Association. Ryan Fisher completed his term as a member of the Editorial Review Committee for UPDATE: Applications of Research in Music Education. Frizzell, E. Y. (2020). Challenging unconscious bias in musical style interpretation. In B. Winnie (Ed.), The choral conductor’s companion: 100 rehearsal techniques, imaginative ideas, quotes, and facts (pp. 73-74). Meredith Music Publications. Frizzell, E. Y. (2020). Teaching music through performance in contemporary a cappella. In D. Sharon, J. Frizzell, & M. Silverberg (Eds.). GIA Publications. Jar of Hearts (pp. 120-122) Fool on the Hill (pp. 205-206) Here, There, & Everywhere (pp. 207-208) When I Fall in Love (pp. 237-238) 2019 Josef Hanson was a finalist for the Outstanding Emerging Research Award given by the Center for Music Education Research at the University of South Florida in Tampa. Hanson, J. (2019). Meta-analytic evidence of the criterion validity of Gordon’s music aptitude tests in published music education research. Journal of Research in Music Education, 67(2): 193-213. Davison, P. D., & Fisher, R. A. (2019). Music teacher evaluation and student growth in music. In T. Brophy (Ed.), Handbook of Assessment Policy and Practice in Music Education (Vol. 1) (pp. 851-869). Oxford University Press. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.