Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Writing Center Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Writing Center admitted students home Writing Center 201 Thayer Street Sciences Library, floor 5 401-863-3524 [email protected] The Writing Center is part of the Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning. Writers can request a 60-minute appointment through the online scheduling application. See the Writing Center website for current hours and available appointment formats (virtual or in-person). The Writing Center also facilitates writing retreats, writing groups, and dissertation writing workshops for graduate students. Additionally, the Sheridan Center's English Language Support offers a workshop series as well as one-on-one consultations with a dedicated staff person for multilingual writers. Please check [email protected] and the Sheridan Center’s workshops page for announcements about programming for graduate writers. The Writing Center is a free academic support service available to all members of the Brown Community. Writing Center staff are experienced writers and teachers who participate in ongoing training in Writing Center theory and practice and non-hierarchical methods of teaching writing one-on-one. Experienced as well as inexperienced writers are encouraged to come to the Center to talk about and work on their writing. Writing Center staff can work with writers who are just starting, midway through, and at the finishing stages of a project. Writers work with the Center to talk through their ideas to gain greater clarity and a sense of purpose (sometimes before they have even begun writing), to overcome writer's block, to develop a writing schedule, to appropriately and persuasively address particular audiences, to tighten their arguments, to strengthen their organizational structures, and to work on issues of clarity and style. While the Writing Center does not offer copy-editing, we do work with writers in one-on-one consultations to develop self-editing skills. The Writing Center also employs around 40 graduate students each academic year. If you wish to become a part of the Writing Center's staff, you can learn more about opportunities or contact Charles Carroll. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants