Skip to Main Content Center for Antiracist Research The Center Research Policy Narrative Advocacy Programs & Initiatives Donate Full Menu Close Menu Search Search for: The Center Our Teams Founder’s Statement Frequently Asked Questions Research Racial Data Lab Research & Policy Teams Research Affiliates COVID Stories Policy Amicus Briefs Antibigotry Convening Narrative The Emancipator National Antiracist Book Festival Vertex Symposium Advocacy Programs & Initiatives Antiracist Tech Initiative News Career Opportunities Subscribe to Newsletter Affiliate With Us Donate instagram twitter Be Antiracist. Where academic research meets antiracist action Center for Antiracist Research Our Mission: To build an antiracist society that ensures racial equity and social justice The mission of the Boston University Center for Antiracist Research is to convene researchers and practitioners from various disciplines to figure out novel and practical ways to understand, explain, and solve seemingly intractable problems of racial inequity and injustice. We foster exhaustive racial research, research-based policy innovation, data-driven educational and advocacy campaigns, and narrative-change initiatives. We are working toward building an antiracist society that ensures equity and justice for all. Read the Founder’s Statement by Ibram X. Kendi What is antiracist research? Whereas racist research historically has posed the question, “What is wrong with people?” antiracist research now asks a different question, a better question: “What is wrong with policies?” Our belief is that framing research on race and racism around antiracist questions leads to antiracist narratives, effective policy solutions, and impactful advocacy campaigns that cut to the root of racial inequality: racist policy. Learn more about our research loading slideshow... Our Work Our work, like our center, is in the process of being developed. But here are a few projects that we're working on. COVID Racial Data Tracker The COVID Racial Data Tracker (CRDT) advocated for, collected, published, and analyzed racial data on the pandemic across the United States. A collaboration between the COVID Tracking Project and the BU Center for Antiracist Research, it was, while active, the most complete race and ethnicity data repository on COVID-19 in the country. The CRDT data and information remains publicly accessible. Learn About the Racial Data Tracker The Antiracist Tech Initiative The Antiracist Tech Initiative aims to build antiracist organizations across the entire tech ecosystem. We do this by working in interdisciplinary research teams, partnering with practitioners, policymakers, and advocates, harnessing big data, and testing evidence-based solutions to determine what policies and actions create antiracist organizations. Learn more about ATI Antibigotry Symposium Don’t miss our virtual Antibigotry Symposium on May 12, 4-7 pm ET! After an introduction by Dr. Ibram X. Kendi, there will be three panels with insights from scholars and advocates. In particular, we will consider how structural aspects of bigotry—including laws, policies, practices, norms, and narratives—work together with bigoted ideas to cause and normalize subordination. Please join us to hear more about this work and contribute to the conversation! Learn More & Register Our Teams Scholarship, advocacy, thought leadership, and a relentless commitment to social justice characterize the center’s accomplished staff members. learn more The Center Affiliates Program The Center Affiliates Program is building a network of faculty and graduate students engaged in antiracist research at Boston University and at colleges and universities around New England. Read More Become a force for change. Donate. Donors who give to the BU Center for Antiracist Research are the very foundation of our work to educate, empower, and bring about an antiracist society. Please support us in this essential mission. Donate News Read more about the center at BU and out in the larger world. Narrative The Emancipator Co-Editors-In-Chief Interviewed on the TODAY Show May 27th, 2022 Read more News How to Take an Equity-Focused Approach to Modeling Infectious Diseases: Recommendations from Dr. Elaine Nsoesie, Assistant Director of Research, and Colleagues May 27th, 2022 Read more Narrative Dr. Monica Wang, Associate Director of Narrative, Comments on Protests Around COVID-19 Mandates April 29th, 2022 Read more Advocacy Adaeze Okorie, CAR Advocacy Intern, Named 2022 Graduate Student Employee of the Year April 28th, 2022 Read more News Petitioner Larry Thompson, Supported by Amicus Brief Filed by Center for Antiracist Research, Wins SCOTUS Civil Rights Case April 27th, 2022 The U.S. Supreme Court has rejected the “indications-of-innocence” standard, which clears a path for people who have been targeted by false criminal charges that are later dismissed to seek police accountability under federal civil rights law. This is one important step in clearing the many hurdles to addressing racialized police misconduct. In June 2021, we […] Read more Narrative Editors’ Letter: The Return of The Emancipator April 26th, 2022 Read more Narrative Dr. Monica Wang Publishes Op-Ed on Transforming Public Health through Investing in Behavioral Research April 26th, 2022 Read more News CAR Researchers Publish Commentary on the Racial Data Gap April 25th, 2022 Read more View All More about Center for Antiracist Research Be informed. Sign up for our Newsletter. Get the latest news on the people and programs at the BU Center for Antiracist Research via our monthly newsletter when you subscribe. Sign up Now Become a force for change. Donate. Donors to the BU Center for Antiracist Research are the very foundation of our work to educate, empower, and bring about an antiracist society. Please support us in this essential mission. Donate Boston University Center for Antiracist Research Boston University Search Directory BU Today instagram twitter © Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu