Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation College of Computing Main navigation About Advisory Board Awards Community Contact Facts and Rankings Leadership Techlanta Faculty Position Opportunities College Administration Website Feedback Form Future Students Degree Programs Graduate Degrees Minors Threads Undergraduate Degrees Online Education Tuition and Financial Aid Funding Sources Current Students Academic Resources Advising Program Advising Undergraduate Advising Career Fair International Study Tutoring Assistance Career Services Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Office of Outreach, Enrollment and Community FASET 2022 Schools Division of Computing Instruction School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Computer Science School of Cybersecurity and Privacy School of Interactive Computing News & Events News Upcoming Events Calendar Press Contacts The Compiler People Directory Faculty Staff PhD Students Alumni Research Facilities Interdisciplinary Research Institutes Research Areas Research Centers About Research Centers Constellations Center for Equity in Computing Undergrad Research Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Corporate Recruiting Support the College Open Search Search Search Image Image Image School of Interactive Computing The School of Interactive Computing (IC) aims to redefine the human experience of computing using two primary tools: research and innovation in computing education. Our School nurtures an open, inclusive, supportive environment made stronger through multiple perspectives and diverse expertise. Research takes faculty and students on a path to study and invent computational capabilities that empower people and machines to affect the world. Through innovation in education, we are preparing a new generation of computational scholars to examine the big picture of computing: how it impacts humans. Our faculty conceived the discipline of interactive computing to examine the impacts computation and computing-mediated interactions have on life’s “big issues,” such as health care and national security, but also on the everyday activities in which all of us engage: children playing video games, adults keeping in touch with elderly parents, professionals using computers as tools in the workplace. These interactions take place not in laboratories but in homes and offices, schools and hospitals, and computation plays a central role. Our research focuses on: artificial intelligence and machine learning; geometry, graphics and animation; human-centered computing and cognitive science; information visualization and visual analytics; robotics and computational perception; social computing and computational journalism; ubiquitous and wearable computing; and virtual and augmented environments. Together these areas form a rich, panoramic view of the myriad ways computing and computational devices interact with their human creators and users. Our School has taken the initiative in creating new, more effective techniques and practices for computing education. At the doctoral level, we led the development of Georgia Tech’s Ph.D. in robotics; we’ve led a national trend in offering a Ph.D. in human-centered computing; and we offer a Ph.D. in computer science. At the undergraduate level, we play a fundamental role in the College of Computing’s Threads program and are responsible for the four most interdisciplinary and outward-facing of the Threads: Media, Intelligence, People, and Devices. Our 40-plus faculty members strive for scholarly excellence and prominence. We contribute to scientific knowledge. We create technology that focuses the power of computing to address the world’s needs, from the individual all the way to society and everywhere in between. Community The GT Computing Community Office of Outreach, Enrollment & Community Student Organizations Career Development Internships & Co-Ops Career Fairs Startups & Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Tutoring Assistance Community Outreach Career Services Career Services for OMSCS IC ANNUAL REPORT IC HOMEPAGE EXPLORE IC RESEARCH Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources GT Footer menu 0 Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum GT Footer menu 1 Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research College of Computing Resources Menu College of Computing Resources Intranet GT Footer menu 2 Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Co-ops & Internships Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid News Feed Quiz Bowl Team Wins Nationals Every year, Georgia Tech’s academic quiz bowl team competes in two… Faculty Receives New GPUs for Fluid Dynamics and Machine Learning Research Scientific computing and simulation require lots of power. This means… Rising Stars: Georgia Tech Cyber Students Recognized as RSA Scholars Two Ph.D. students studying in the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy…