Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Burnett Honors College For the intimacy of a small liberal arts college along with the benefits of a large metropolitan research university, experience the Honors College. As a member of the college, you are part of a learning community that fosters the pursuit of excellence, a sense of social and civic responsibility, and a passion for life-long learning. honors.ucf.edu Honors students won a 2016 College Emmy Award for a film documentary created through the Honors Seminar, an exclusive annual interdisciplinary course. UCF ranks second among Florida’s state universities with 289 National Merit Scholars enrolled. The college offers international service learning experiences in South Africa, Nicaragua, St. Kitts and Nevis. Explore your opportunities. UCF has more than 215 degrees, plus a talented team of faculty and staff to help find a program that’s right for you. Whatever your passion, we’ll put you on the path to success. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Undergraduate Certificates Masters Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Honors in the Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Burnett Honors News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Student to Conduct Research at Mayo Clinic After Graduation Biomedical sciences student Justin Barthel has spent his time at UCF pursuing excellence in scholarship, research and service while working on his goal of becoming… Student Life 10 UCF Students Recognized by NSF Graduate Research Fellowships Program A Google co-founder and other changemakers have received these awards in the past. Two of the awardees graduate this spring. Student Life Student Research Week: The Power of TikTok in Self-expression Undergraduate student Lindsey Wright explores the use of audios and hashtags on TikTok and how their use reflects self-identity. Start Up Here UCF’s growing entrepreneurial culture is empowering students to successfully navigate their way from concept to launch. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida