Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Title IX Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Title IX Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct In 2015, Brown was one of 27 institutions to participate in a landmark national survey on sexual assault and misconduct, organized by the Association of American Universities (AAU) and administered by the research firm Westat. That survey provided detailed data demonstrating that campus sexual and gender-based harassment and violence is a serious issue confronting colleges and universities across the nation. In April 2019, Brown joined 32 other institutions in asking students to share their experiences with, and perceptions of, sexual misconduct on campus through a follow-up survey. Participation in the 2019 Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct, once again organized by AAU and Westat, was voluntary and anonymous. Brown’s goals in participating in the 2019 follow-up to the 2015 survey were to gain insights into any nuances or shifts in the prevalence of sexual and gender-based misconduct and to explore students’ knowledge and experience related to available resources. Given Brown’s extensive efforts to proactively encourage a culture in which students report incidents of sexual misconduct and seek support, the follow-up AAU survey was also an opportunity to assess the impact of work across campus in the areas of prevention and response. Brown’s participation in the initial AAU survey complemented the work of the University’s Sexual Assault Task Force, which convened in 2014 to develop recommendations to better address sexual misconduct on campus, and issued its final recommendations in 2015. After the close of the 2019 survey, conducted at Brown over the period of April 4 to May 5, Westat created reports and data tables for each of the 33 participating institutions, and an aggregate report that combined data for all of the institutions. It is important to note that the 2019 survey instrument created by AAU and Westat is a revised version of the 2015 survey, but is not a direct duplicate. In some cases, questions remained the same, which enables direct comparisons of 2015 and 2019 data; in many other cases, given new questions or revisions to how the survey collected information, no comparisons are possible. On Oct. 15, 2019, Brown released the 2019 survey report developed for its campus to coincide with the AAU’s release of the aggregate report. Key documents for both the 2019 survey as well as the original 2015 survey are included here. 2019 Campus Climate Survey Brown University Executive Summary Report on the AAU Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct for Brown University Full Data Tables for Brown University AAU Aggregate Report for All Participating Institutions Additional Resources from AAU 2015 Campus Climate Survey Brown University Executive Summary Report on the AAU Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct for Brown University Full Data Tables for Brown University AAU Aggregate Report for All Participating Institutions Frequently Asked Questions Additional Resources from AAU Home Staff What is Title IX Policies Online Reporting Get Help Culture of Respect Annual Outcome Report Sexual Assault Campus Climate Survey Oversight and Advisory Board Campus Updates Print this Page Share this Page Title IX and Gender Equity Brown University Box 1988 305 Horace Mann House 47 George St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2026 [email protected] For Immediate Help Call the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401-863-6000 for confidential crisis support and information. “No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any educational program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.” —Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 to the Higher Education Act of 1965 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory