Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Religion PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Religion PhD Apply Request More Info Religion PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Religion PhD Examine global religious traditions and texts through several high-level methods of study with the Doctor of Philosophy in Religion in Temple’s College of Liberal Arts. Perform critical analyses of major religious belief systems with emphasis on textual and historical research, philosophical and hermeneutical studies, and social and cultural analysis. Undergo in-depth research for the writing, presentation and defense of a dissertation that demonstrates original and significant contributions to the study of religion. Students in this doctoral program are guided toward academic areas of study based on their personal and professional interests. These areas of study include African diaspora; African American religious traditions; biblical studies; Buddhism; gender and religion; Islamic studies; Jewish studies; religions of China, India, Japan and Tibet; and religion and social science. Current Religion PhD faculty members have a broad range of specializations, giving the program both breadth and cross-cultural diversity. Their areas of expertise focus on Buddhist, African American, biblical, Islamic and Jewish studies with an emphasis on the comparison and intersection of their traditions. Learn more about faculty in the Religion Department. The Religion PhD provides a competitive edge for tenure-track positions in national and international college and university religion departments. Graduates of this doctoral program also advance to top-tier positions in educational government entities and academic administrations. Religion Department Founded in 1961, Temple’s Department of Religion was one of the earliest religion departments established at a public or state-related university. The goal of the department and its programs is to provide students with a broad understanding of a wide variety of religious traditions and an awareness of how religion functions in communities around the world. The department has strong relationships and affiliations with outside secular and religious institutions, including the Eastern Baptist Theological Seminary, Lutheran Theological Seminary, Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania Department of Religious Studies. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have seven years to satisfy their requirements for the Religion PhD program, which can be completed on a full-time or part-time basis. Classes take place on Temple’s Main Campus, with some evening classes held at the Temple University Center City campus. The 60-credit Religion PhD curriculum comprises core courses, advanced seminars, research courses, a language examination and a dissertation. Core courses include the following. American Religious History Foundations in Philosophy of Religion Foundations in Religion and Psychology Religious Experience: Body and Meditation The History of Ethics Learn more about Religion PhD program requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Religion MA Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Religion PhD, contact the following staff member. Linda Wyatt is the coordinator in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-3663 Email: ldwyatt@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Religion PhD. Terry Rey is the chair of the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-8755 Email: trey@temple.edu Douglas Duckworth is the graduate chair in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-3663 Email: duckworth@temple.edu TJ Cusack is the administrator in the Religion Department. Phone: 215-204-9209 Email: tjc@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Religion PhD coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The following clubs and organizations are available to Religion PhD students. The Feinstein Center for American Jewish History invites students to participate in conversations about Jewish culture, politics, history and identity across space and time. The Center also offers fellowships to predoctoral and postdoctoral Jewish studies scholars and holds events relating to the Jewish experience in America. The Journal of Ecumenical Studies is an interreligious, peer-reviewed journal housed and edited by the Department of Religion at Temple. The Dialogue Institute leads and sustains a movement of interreligious and intercultural dialogue within an academic setting and on a global scale. The Religion Graduate Student Association, of which all graduate students in the Religion Department are automatically members, gives support and voice to student concerns. A group listserv provides a venue where students can exchange information and discuss issues pertaining to the department and programs. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-REL-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Religion PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info