Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Secondary Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Secondary Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Secondary Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty PRAXIS & Prerequisites Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Education in Secondary Education The Master of Education (MEd) in Secondary Education program focuses on the needs and subject areas of today’s secondary school students. Geared toward college graduates and working professionals with undergraduate degrees outside of education, this graduate program prepares graduates to teach grades seven through 12 in their chosen content area such as English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies or World Languages. This graduate program offers paths to initial certification in a variety of subject areas and with several design approaches. All options involve earning the equivalent of an academic major in a content area as well as taking development and pedagogy courses that prepare students to effectively teach chosen content areas to adolescents. You can complete this graduate degree on a part-time or a full-time basis with evening classes on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia. However, you will be required to fulfill a student teaching requirement, which is a full-time commitment. After successfully completing the minimum requirements for certification, students may choose to leave the program with only certification, or they may elect to continue in the program, completing the additional credit hours and requirements necessary to receive certification and earn a master’s degree. Applicants to Secondary Education programs who are interested in earning certification through a full-time, urban-focused STEM teacher residency program may also explore Temple’s Teacher Residency program. Who might be interested? The Secondary Education MEd program is designed for individuals choosing to change careers after earning a bachelor’s degree in one of the fields below, to prepare them for initial teacher certification in secondary education (grades 7 through 12) and special education. Concentrations You'll choose from the following concentration areas in Secondary Education MEd. English Education Prepare to engage secondary students in the production and interpretation of literary and non-literary spoken and written texts. Learn to identify the structures and functions of language; become familiar with the texts and histories of U.S., European and non-Western literary genres; and place reading and writing within the larger context of films, plays, videos and other forms of expression. Learn more about the Master of Education in Secondary Education program with a concentration in English education. View Concentration Details Mathematics Education Gain knowledge of the interests and abilities of students at different levels of mathematics achievement. Focus on problem-solving skills, mathematical thinking processes, and methods of actively engaging children and young adults in their own learning. Learn more about the Master of Education in Secondary Education program with a concentration in mathematics. View Concentration Details Science Education Build a strong foundation in at least one science discipline with supporting expertise in mathematics as appropriate. Graduate with an understanding of the nature of science and its complex relationship to the society in which it functions and which it serves. This program offers concentrations in Biology, Chemistry, Earth Science, General Science, and Physics. Learn more about the Master of Education in Secondary Education program with a concentration in science. View Concentration Details Social Studies Education Develop the skills necessary to create an informed citizenry with respect for diversity in a democratic society. Focus on critical thinking about curriculum frameworks and materials; curriculum development grounded in teaching for understanding; and sensitivity around areas such as race relations, gender, war and peace, equality of economic and social opportunities, and global interdependence. Learn more about the Master of Education in Secondary Education program with a concentration in social studies. View Concentration Details World-Foreign Languages Education Learn a combination of fluency in your target language and the ability to implement best practices in foreign language pedagogy. Focus on a foreign language and developing intercultural understanding in order to escape a narrow cultural perspective. Through the experiences in this program, you will gain a deeper understanding of the nature of culture and the Chinese, French, German, Italian, Latin and Spanish languages. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Early Childhood Education MEd Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Middle Grades Education MEd Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Teacher Certification This program prepares you to successfully complete state certification exams, allowing you to apply for a Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate. Learn more about certification. Fieldwork In addition to state certification exams and student teaching, you must complete field experiences as part of your coursework. Field placements are designed to give you teaching experience working with children in educational and non-educational settings. The majority of field experiences require students to spend seven full days over the course of a semester in the classroom. During the student teaching semester, students are required to spend every day in the classroom for 14 weeks. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Tim Fukawa-Connelly, associate professor of teaching and learning, is the faculty program coordinator for the Secondary Education MEd. Phone: 215-204-6206 Email: tim.fc@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Certification This master’s degree program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-SECE-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Secondary Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty PRAXIS & Prerequisites Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info