Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of the Environment School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Suite 116 Fishery Sciences 206-543-7457 Website Faculty Website safsdesk@uw.edu The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences studies aquatic organisms, the rivers, lakes and oceans in which they live, and how we conserve them. The degree draws on the disciplines of natural history, physiology, ecology, evolution and quantitative sciences, and applies these principles to conservation and management of natural resources. Graduates of the School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences are uniquely qualified for careers in universities and other educational settings, management agencies at the local to international levels, environmental consulting, and non-profit organizations. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Program of Study: Minor: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Minor in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic and Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Program of Study: Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Undergraduate Programs School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Suite 116 Fishery Sciences 206-543-7457 safsadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Program Overview The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences studies aquatic organisms, the rivers, lakes and oceans in which they live, and how we conserve them. The degree draws on the disciplines of natural history, physiology, ecology, evolution and quantitative sciences, and applies these principles to conservation and management of natural resources. Graduates of the School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences are uniquely qualified for careers in universities and other educational settings, management agencies at the local to international levels, environmental consulting, and non-profit organizations. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Recommended courses for first year students: English composition; calculus; CHEM 120 or CHEM 142, and CHEM 220; BIOL 180; and FISH 250 and/or FISH 101. Recommended courses for second year students: BIOL 200 and BIOL 220; Q SCI 381; FISH 310 and/or FISH 311; and any additional courses that meet the College general education requirements. Students should start FISH core courses as soon as they meet the appropriate prerequisites. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time, including on their application for admission to the UW. After notification of admission and before registration, new students should visit or email the Student Services Office for help in planning their programs. Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Credential Overview The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences studies aquatic organisms, the rivers, lakes and oceans in which they live, and how we conserve them. The degree draws on the disciplines of natural history, physiology, ecology, evolution and quantitative sciences, and applies these principles to conservation and management of natural resources. Graduates of the School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences are uniquely qualified for careers in universities and other educational settings, management agencies at the local to international levels, environmental consulting, and non-profit organizations. Completion Requirements Foundation Courses (50-55 credits) Mathematics (15 credits): either MATH 124 and MATH 125, or Q SCI 291 and Q SCI 292; Q SCI 381 Chemistry (9-10 credits): either CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; either CHEM 152, CHEM 220, CHEM 223, or OCEAN 295 Biology (15 credits): BIOL 180, BIOL 200; either BIOL 220 or FISH 270/OCEAN 270/MARBIO 270 Physics (4-5 credits): either PHYS 114 or PHYS 121 Two of the following (7-10 credits): either PHYS 115 or PHYS 122; either PHYS 116 or PHYS 123; OCEAN 210; GEOG 205; ATM S 211; OCEAN 230/ESS 230; OCEAN 285; FISH 330/ENVIR 330; ENVIR 313/ESS 315. See adviser for other acceptable courses in this category. Core (minimum 29 credits) FISH 290; FISH 300/OCEAN 300/MARBIO 300; FISH 310; FISH 311/BIOL 311 Minimum 15 credits from three of the following: FISH 312, FISH 323, FISH 324, and FISH 340/BIOL 340 Electives (minimum 16 credits, four courses): 400-level courses from within the School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences for the major, excluding FISH 453/OCEAN 453, and FISH 477BIOL 477/OCEAN 477 Maximum 3 credits total from FISH 479/BIOL 479/OCEAN 479, FISH 492/FHL 492/MARBIO 492, FISH 498, FISH 499 Maximum 5 credits from each of FISH 489 and FISH 491 Capstone (7-13 credits): FISH 493, FISH 494, FISH 495 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in all core, elective, and capstone courses applied to the major. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Program Overview The Minor in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences is designed for students with an interest in studying aquatic organisms and their habitats in conjunction with a general interest or other natural science major. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Minor in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences Credential Overview The Minor in Aquatic and Fishery Sciences is designed for students with an interest in studying aquatic organisms and their habitats in conjunction with a general interest or other natural science major. Completion Requirements Minimum 28 credits Three courses (two of which must be at least at the 300-level) from FISH 101, FISH 250, FISH 310, FISH 311, FISH 312, FISH 323, and FISH 324 Q SCI 381 or Q SCI 482 Minimum two upper-division FISH courses totaling at least 8 credits Maximum 11 credits may overlap with a student's major Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Aquatic and fishery sciences is a life science major designed to provide students a broad framework of knowledge and sets of skills for employment in a variety of areas (e.g., natural resource management, environmental consulting, fish or aquatic wildlife biology, aquaculture). In addition, students receive excellent preparation for graduate study in a number of life science fields. Expected student outcomes include: Skills in written and oral communication, data analysis, field and laboratory skills. Skill sets have been integrated into all core and flagship courses. Exposure to career paths in the field and interaction with professionals. Skills gained allow students to obtain an entry-level aquatic scientist position or admission to graduate school. Emphasis in one of three focus areas (aquatic ecology, conservation and management, aquatic biology and culture); students get a broad overview, then may specialize in one of the three areas. Strong encouragement to pursue multiple internship and research experiences, including opportunities like FHL research apprenticeships and Alaska Ecological Research Program. Understanding not only of the science, but also the socio-political-economic environment and its impact on the field of aquatic and fishery sciences. All students participate in a capstone experience that requires them to demonstrate acquired skill sets (including public presentation in an undergraduate research symposium). SAFS graduates pursue careers in the private sector (environmental consulting firms, private companies), the public sector (state and federal agencies, non-profit organizations, non-governmental agencies, education), and many continue into graduate programs in either research or policy. The undergraduate degree prepares students for either direct employment in a number of fields within public and private sectors, or for competitive entry into applicable graduate programs worldwide. Instructional and Research Facilities: The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences is housed in several buildings on the University of Washington campus. In addition, the school maintains various facilities off campus, including field research stations in Washington State and Alaska. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). Research, Internships, and Service Learning: SAFS scientists work closely with employers in both the public and private sectors, leading to opportunities for undergraduates to receive both internship and research experience. Scientists from area agencies (NOAA, National Marine Fisheries, Alaska Fisheries Sciences Center, National Marine Mammal Lab, the U.S. Forest Service, the Student Conservation Association, and the Seattle Aquarium) come to the school to attend weekly SAFS departmental seminars; undergraduates are encouraged to attend. The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences is second only to the UW Medical School in federal research dollars brought to the UW campus, providing many paid hourly student positions within the department. Department Scholarships: Scholarships are awarded on the basis of academic merit, financial need,and other factors. The annual application process for continuing students begins in spring; check with the Office of Student Services for applications and deadlines. All undergraduates, both freshmen and transfers, are considered for recruitment scholarships if they have declared AFS as their major on their application to the University of Washington. Student Organizations/Associations: SURF (Society for Undergraduate Resources in Fisheries) organizes social, career, and educational activities for undergraduates in aquatic and fishery sciences. SURF also prints t-shirts, welcomes new students to the program, represents the program at events, and collaborates with student groups in other related departments on events. Of Special Note: The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences has sent a small group of students and three faculty members to two Alaska Salmon Field Stations for a six-week course in aquatic ecology. These students receive education in ecology, limnology, population modeling, field techniques, scientific writing, and presentation skills. Graduate Programs School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences 206-616-5893 safs@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic and Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Doctor Of Philosophy (Aquatic and Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Science (Aquatic And Fishery Sciences: Data Sciences) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA