Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Sarasota | Luncheon with Marshall Pepe Events Past Event CAA Sarasota | Luncheon with Marshall Pepe Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 12, 2022 12:00 PM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Off-campus Luncheon with Marshall Pepe, PNC Private Bank Investment Market Director for the state of Florida Fellow Columbia Alumni and Friends, Join us on April 12th, at noon, for another informative luncheon at Rosemary & Thyme Restaurant. Cost remains $25 for members and $30 for guests. Our world and our economy are experiencing dramatic changes, ones that have escalated since the beginning of the year. Join us for a conversation with PNC Private Bank Investment Market Director for the state of Florida. Marshall Pepe will share views on the global and US markets, and how PNC is advising it’s clients in a volatile market. We encourage you to bring other alumni and guests for a timely presentation. As a senior vice president and an investment market director for the PNC Private BankSM, Marshall provides investment leadership in the creation and implementation of investment strategies. Marshall also serves as an investment advisor for complex accounts. Marshall works with a team of investment advisors, experienced professionals in financial and estate services, trusts and banking services, to help clients achieve their financial objectives. Prior to joining PNC Private Bank, Marshall had over 20 years of professional experience within the financial services industry, including commercial credit underwriting, brokerage, trust administration and portfolio management. Marshall graduated with a Bachelor of Business Administration from University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire and with a Master of Business Administration from University of Central Florida. Marshall holds the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) designation. He is active in the Sarasota community with the Sarasota YMCA, both as a volunteer age group and master’s swim coach, and as a board member of the YMCA Sharks Masters swim team. RSVP: https://sarasota.alumni.columbia.edu/21_22_pepe_pnc_econ_20220412 Contact Information CAA Sarasota [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close