Skip to main content Submit Search GIVEJOBSAPPLY (STUDENTS) Toggle navigation Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering. About BME About the Department Contact and Directions Chair’s Statement: Mission and Values Diversity at BME Resources People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Scholars Advisory Board Research Research Overview Biomedical Imaging Biomedical Microdevices Pharmacoengineering Rehabilitation Engineering Regenerative Medicine Undergraduate Undergraduate Program Overview Curriculum & Advising Student Opportunities Undergraduate Admissions BME Graduation Class 2021 Graduate Why Choose BME PhD MS Graduate Admissions FAQ Professional Development News & Events News BME Events Coulter Seminar Series BME Newsletter The BME Grad Podcast Innovate Carolina features BME’s interdisciplinary solutions to Covid19 More Details »»» News Professor Roger Narayan elected 2022 MRS Fellow May 10, 2022 Professor Roger Narayan, MD, PhD, Distinguished Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering at NC State and UNC Chapel Hill, has been elected a fellow of the Materials Re… Read more BME Assistant Professor Andrea Giovannucci receives UNC Undergraduate Teaching Award May 2, 2022 At this year’s UNC Chancellor’s Awards Ceremony, BME Assistant Professor Andrea Giovannucci received the Student Undergraduate Teaching Award for his time and effort to improve UNC undergraduate stude… Read more BME Assistant Professor Yevgeny Brudno receives two NC State Teaching Awards May 2, 2022 In April, BME Assistant Professor Yevgeny Brudno received both the NC State Outstanding Teacher Award and the Alumni Outstanding Teacher Award from the Alumni Association. The Outstanding Teacher Awar… Read more BME Student Winners at 2022 NC State’s eGames April 29, 2022 We are proud to announce BME student winners at this year’s eGames, NC State’s largest entrepreneurship competition with over $100k in cash prizes. Student teams compete in two categories — “Think” an… Read more Read more news... Events There are no upcoming events at this time. View more events… Current Students & Alumni We love to hear from our students and alumni! There are plenty of opportunities to stay involved with the Joint BME Department outside the classroom and upon graduation, from attending events and lectures to connecting with us on LinkedIn and social media Instagram and Twitter. The BME Grad Podcast Two recent UNC / NC State BME graduates, Allie Mitzak and Grace Cronin host The BME Grad Podcast to help BME students understand industry job roles. Since the start of the podcast in January 2021, Mitzak and Cronin have hosted guests working in product engineering, manufacturing, project management, marketing, clinical, regulatory and entrepreneurship roles. With a new episode every 2 weeks, they have also featured subject matter experts in interviewing and resume writing. *Disclaimer: the podcast content is not sponsored nor necessarily represents the views of the Universities of UNC / NC State.* Testimonials Hunter Reavis, UNC Alum – Class 2016 “After graduation in 2016, I worked as a research technician in a lab at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the Radiation Oncology department studying DNA damage and repair. This research experience helped me to confirm my passion for cancer biology and in 2018 I began my PhD at the University of Pennsylvania studying the tumor microenvironment of ovarian cancer. BME provided me with a unique perspective in the cancer biology field and I often use many of the approaches and techniques that I learned at UNC!” Anthony M. Kyu, NC State Alum – Class 2021 “Throughout my undergraduate career at BME, I saw a need for more robotic innovations to not only improve the prosthetics field, but also other medical-related fields, including surgical robotics. For 3 years, I was the Chief Technology Officer of the Helping Hand Project at NC State, responsible for the design and 3D printing of hundreds of body-powered upper-limb prosthetics for children. I’m currently pursuing a M.S. Program in Robotic Systems Development at the Carnegie Mellon University, the nation’s oldest and most established Robotics Institute.” University of North Carolina 10010 Mary Ellen Jones Campus Box 7575 Chapel Hill, NC 27599 Undergraduate: 919.966.1176 Graduate: 919.445.6051 Business: 919.966.1175 Directions North Carolina State University 4130 Engineering Building III Campus Box 7115 Raleigh, NC 27695 Undergraduate: 919.515.6732 Graduate: 919.513.7779 Business: 919.515.5252 Directions Start of Twitter timeline. Skip Twitter timelineTweets by @UNCNCSUBME End of Twitter timeline. Return to the start of the Twitter timeline © 2022 Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering.