Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date May 20, 2021 2021-05-20 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown outlines COVID-19 vaccination requirements for faculty, staff and students In an effort to achieve near-universal vaccination and return to more traditional operations, Brown will require all faculty, staff and students to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. Brown undergraduate Mya Murray — a Uniontown, Pennsylvania, native and member of the women’s basketball team at Brown — received the first dose of Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine during a May 17 on-campus vaccination clinic. All photos: Nick Dentamaro/Brown University. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In an effort to achieve near-universal COVID-19 vaccination on its campus and return to more traditional operations, Brown University will require all employees to receive the final dose of a COVID-19 vaccine by July 1. The University will require that Brown students engaged in on-campus activity this summer receive the vaccine by the same date, as part of the student vaccination requirement communicated in April. Students who are currently away from campus but will return for the 2021-22 academic year must be vaccinated by the fall semester. Brown President Christina H. Paxson outlined the requirements in a May 20 letter to faculty, staff and students. She wrote that strong evidence that authorized COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective, and the wide availability of vaccines in Rhode Island, offer optimism that the ability to gather in-person on campus without masks and social distancing, and reduce or eliminate the need for routine COVID-19 testing, is near. “Based on discussions with Brown’s public health and medical experts, it is clear that our priority should be to achieve near-universal levels of vaccination — 90% or greater — in the Brown community,” Paxson wrote. “People who are vaccinated are much less likely to get COVID-19. They are also less like to become seriously ill or spread the illness to others if they do contract the virus… The sooner we can achieve near-universal vaccination, the sooner we’ll be able to lift public health restrictions on campus and return to a more normal environment for teaching and research, with full confidence that the health of the community is being protected.” After receiving the vaccine, all employees and students must verify their vaccination status by uploading their vaccination card. For both students and employees, medical and religious exemptions to Brown’s requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Paxson’s letter arrived three days after Brown hosted its first on-campus COVID-19 vaccination clinic. The University partnered with the Wellness Company to administer the Moderna vaccine to more than 60 eligible students, faculty and staff who registered in advance. In addition, with the vaccine now widely available, the Brown University Shuttle is making express trips to the Dunkin Donuts Center in downtown Providence. Eligible individuals who live, work or study in Rhode Island can receive a COVID-19 vaccination at the state-operated site with no appointment required. The full text of Paxson’s letter follows and is available on the Healthy Brown website. Additional details on Brown’s vaccination requirements and an extensive set of FAQs are available as well. 1 of 2 Franklin Almada, who works as a Brown custodian in Facilities Management, confirmed with clinic staff that he was feeling well following receipt of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine at the University’s Olney-Margolies Athletic Center. 2 of 2 The University hosted the COVID-19 vaccination clinic in partnership with the Wellness Company, the University’s partner for flu vaccine distribution; a follow-up clinic will be held the week of June 14 for vaccine recipients to receive the second Modern dose. Important: COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements for Faculty, Staff and Students Dear Brown Community Members, For more than a year, we have been looking forward to the day when we can gather in-person without masks and social distancing, and reduce or eliminate the need for routine testing for COVID-19. Although that day is not here yet, strong evidence that the authorized vaccines for COVID-19 are safe and effective gives us optimism that it is not far off, especially given that vaccines are now readily available in Rhode Island. Based on discussions with Brown’s public health and medical experts, it is clear that our priority should be to achieve near-universal levels of vaccination — 90% or greater — in the Brown community. People who are vaccinated are much less likely to get COVID-19. They are also less likely to become seriously ill or spread the illness to others if they do contract the virus. For these reasons, the sooner we can achieve near-universal vaccination, the sooner we’ll be able to lift public health restrictions on campus and return to a more normal environment for teaching and research, with full confidence that the health of the community is being protected. In order to achieve near-universal vaccination, we are requiring all Brown employees to receive the final dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by July 1, 2021. In addition, we are also requiring all Brown students who are engaged in on-campus activities this summer (education, jobs, research, or engaging in any in-person education or work with other Brown employees, students or visitors) to receive the final dose of their COVID-19 vaccine by July 1, 2021. As we announced previously, for the Fall 2021 semester, Brown will require COVID-19 vaccines for all students who will be on campus or engage in any level of in-person instruction, whether in the U.S. or abroad. For students who are engaged in on-campus activities this summer, the July 1 deadline is an acceleration of the timeline communicated in April that called for all students to be vaccinated by the fall semester. Given the widespread availability of COVID-19 vaccines in Rhode Island, the earlier deadline is now achievable. For employees, this does not mean that currently remote employees will be expected to return to campus or other Brown premises by July 1. However, the knowledge that all employees are vaccinated by July 1 will make it possible for employees to return to campus at the appropriate time with the confidence that their health and the health of their co-workers will be protected. As we shared last month, we hope that widespread COVID-19 vaccination and sustained low levels of transmission of the virus will allow remote employees to work on-site by mid-August, in time for the start of the fall semester, although it remains too early to set a specific date. A working group is developing plans for the transition of remote employees to in-person work. For both students and employees, medical and religious exemptions to the vaccination requirement will be granted and reasonable accommodations provided under applicable law. Implementing the Requirement for Faculty, Staff and Students To provide an ongoing resource to the Brown community, we have developed detailed information about the COVID-19 vaccine requirement and answers to frequently asked questions in the Vaccine FAQ on the Healthy Brown website. Among the many topics addressed by the FAQ: The role of high vaccination rates in keeping the community safe Authorized vaccinations for Brown community members in the U.S. and abroad Requesting an exemption to the vaccine requirement on medical or religious grounds Outcomes for employees and students who do not obtain a medical or religious exemption approved by Brown with a reasonable accommodation but do not adhere to the vaccination requirement Reduced quarantine and easing of restrictions for vaccinated employees and students General information about the efficacy and safety of various vaccines, their availability for U.S. and international Brown community members, and other details about the administration of COVID-19 vaccines Verifying Vaccination Status All current Brown employees (faculty, staff, postdoctoral scholars, visiting researchers, lecturers, and seasonal and intermittent staff, full- and part-time) must upload their vaccination card to Workday by July 1, 2021. New Brown employees who are hired after July 1, 2021, must be vaccinated before they begin work, unless they are approved for a medical or religious exemption. All students who are here this summer should get vaccinated and upload their card to the Health and Wellness Portal no later than July 1, 2021. Students who return for the fall term must be vaccinated before they return to campus or engage in any level of in-person activity or instruction. Special arrangements to get vaccinated in Rhode Island will be made for international students who don’t have access to vaccines in their home countries. We expect that many members of the Brown community have already complied with these requirements but have not yet uploaded their vaccination cards – please do so immediately. Employees and students can find more information and instructions about verifying vaccination status on Healthy.Brown.edu. In the coming weeks, we will continue to provide information and support for getting vaccinated. In parallel, members of the administration are working on revising the COVID-19 Campus Safety Policy and planning for continually increasing levels of campus activity in the coming summer months. How much we are able to do so depends entirely on our community getting vaccinated and documenting their vaccination in the coming weeks. Thank you for your support and cooperation as we move toward the latter stages of a pandemic that has caused so much disruption and loss. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, our priority has been to protect the safety of the Brown community. The single best way we can protect ourselves and each other is to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Sincerely, Christina H. Paxson President Tags Campus Life COVID-19 Faculty and Staff Related news: News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees May 29, 2022 In addresses at Brown’s Commencement ceremonies on Sunday, May 29, student speakers entreated their peers to make a positive impact using lessons they had learned during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for In three ceremonies, medical, doctoral and master’s graduates celebrate hard-earned degrees Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown outlines COVID-19 vaccination requirements for faculty, staff and students Open details for Brown outlines COVID-19 vaccination requirements for faculty, staff and students Bookmark this Page