Talent Development - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide Quick Links: Why Work for UH? Staff Employment Workplace Reimagined POWER UP Wellness UH Holiday Schedule Forms CATALYST App Volunteer Information HR COVID-19 Information UH Home Human Resources Talent Development Talent Development Empowering through new knowledge, Enriching through shared experience, Excelling toward the future. Catalyst is a learning and development program designed to provide opportunities for staff to enhance knowledge and develop skills for future opportunities within the University of Houston. This program features innovative development courses for Individual Contributors, Supervisors, Managers and Senior Leaders. To view courses currently available and to enroll view the CATALYST Enrollment App. Click HERE to view our course Catalog. Are you looking for workshops and activities for your department to enhance communication and team spirit? Team Development is customized for each department or team based on their development goals. Training programs and activities are developed based on a needs assessment conducted by a Talent Development team member. To request a team development session please complete a training request form. LinkedIn Learning offers a customized learning experience that features instructional content relevant to your professional interests and goals. UH Employees have unlimited access to more than 5,000 video tutorials covering business, creative and technology topics. Click Here for a list of recommended courses from LinkedIn Learning! Training Resources How to Enroll Training Queries Mandatory and Online Training FAQs Online Courses Student Training System (STS) TRAINING ENROLLMENT Expand AllCollapse All How do I enroll in a training course? Log into AccessUH with your CougarNet credentials. Click the P.A.S.S. icon, then click Training. You can enroll in a training course with either the Course Name or Course Code. Once you’re done requesting enrollment, online training courses will be available in TAP the following day. For classroom courses an email will be sent from the course facilitator with additional details. How To Request Training Enrollment To enroll in CATATLYST courses, log into the CATALYST Enrollment App and follow the CATALYST Enrollment process. When trying to enroll in an online training course, the course states that it starts on 8/31/2022. What do I do? The date 8/31/2022 is the system expiration date for online courses. All online courses are available the next day in TAP immediately following enrollment, you do not need to wait until 8/31/2022 to begin the course. Where do I go to access my online trainings? The online training courses are accessible in TAP. To access TAP, log into AccessUH and click on TAP Employee Online Training or go to https://login.tap.uh.edu. Even though I am enrolled in online trainings, I’m unable to see my trainings in TAP. Please wait 24hrs. after enrolling to view courses in TAP. After 24hrs. you may need to clear your internet browser history, by clearing your cache and cookies. You may also try using a different browser. For additional assistance with your internet browser, contact UIT Support. If you continue to have issues viewing the courses, please email ulearn@uh.edu for assistance. How do I cancel an enrollment request? To cancel an enrollment request you will need to send an email to the Talent Development team at ulearn@uh.edu, include your name, PSID, and course information. For Mandatory New Hire and Annual Mandatory Training courses, a request must be submitted by your College/Department Business Administrator or Manager to cancel enrollment. Where can I find information about Mandatory New Hire and Annual Mandatory Training? Online Training Webpage - Click Here Catalyst learning programs Expand AllCollapse All Who can take a CATALYST class? All benefits-eligible staff members can enroll. There is a learning path for every employee. Individual Contributors – Individuals in non-leadership roles seeking skills for career success. Supervisors – Team Leads and Supervisors looking for leadership and team management skills. Managers – Managers with direct reports looking for leadership and strategic skills. Senior Leaders – High-level leaders of supervisors, managers, directors, etc., who are looking to sharpen their leadership skills and connect to explore new ideas. How do I sign up for a CATALYST class? Log into the CATALYST App using your CougarNet ID and password. Register for the course with your CougarNet email address and your PSID. Once it is confirmed you are eligible for the course, a request will be sent to your supervisor for approval. After we receive your supervisor’s approval, you will receive an email notification confirming you have been successfully enrolled. How much does CATALYST cost? Course tuition fees vary. All course tuition costs are listed with the course description in the CATALYST App. How do I pay for a class? Once enrollment is approved by your supervisor, course tuition is billed to the department. Do I have to have direct reports to take courses in the supervisor or manager learning paths? Some courses in the Supervisor Development path will require an individual to have direct reports. All Manager Development learning path courses require the participant to have direct reports. The criteria for eligibility is listed with course description for each course. Are all classes in person? All courses are in person in the Human Resources Center Training Room, with the exception of classes labeled “Virtual Edition”. Virtual Edition courses are taught via MS Teams. How do I approve an employee’s request to take a class? If you have received an email to approve an employee’s enrollment request, log into the CATALYST App and select “Manager Access”. You will need to provide the cost center and the name of your department’s C/DBA in order to approve the request. Can I schedule CATALYST development courses just for my team? We offer most CATALYST courses as a Team Development option. We also offer custom Team Development trainings to suit the needs of your group. If you would like to learn more or request a Team Development training, visit the CATALYST App, select Team Development and complete the form. Other Resources Center of Diversity and Inclusion With the University of Houston being the second most ethnically diverse research institution in the United States, our faculty and staff have a unique opportunity to leverage this diversity to enhance student experiences. The Center for Diversity and Inclusion invites all faculty and staff to our Spring 2022 Signature Workshops, designed to help develop and strengthen cultural competency within the UH community. Participants explore personal and cultural identity development, deepen cultural understandings of others, and are equipped with tools to create an inclusive campus environment. Interested participants can register via Microsoft Forms. For more information, visit the Center for Diversity and Inclusion website. Cougar Rhetoric, Toastmasters Club Join your fellow Coogs to develop your communication and leadership skills, resulting in greater self-confidence, and both personal and professional growth. Cougar Rhetoric, the Toastmasters International Club for UH Staff and UH student employees, meets every Tuesday from 12 pm - 1 pm. All staff members at UH, UH at Sugar Land, and UH at Katy are welcome to join. View meeting information in the UH PowerUp Calendar under “Cougar Rhetoric”. Cougar Rhetoric | A Toastmasters Club for University of Houston |Club 7755635, District 56, Area O14 www.cougarrhetoric.toastmastersclubs.org CRASE Training Law enforcement officers and agencies are frequently requested by schools, businesses, and citizens for education on what they should do when confronted with an active shooter situation. With all of the active shooter events happening across the world, it only make sense to want to be prepared. The Civilian Response to Active Shooter Events (CRASE) course, designed and built on the Avoid, Deny, Defend (ADD) strategy developed by Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training (ALERRT) in 2004, provides strategies, guidance, and a proven plan for surviving an active shooter event. Topics include the history and prevalence of active shooter events, civilian response options, medical issues, and considerations for conducting drills. For questions, please contact us at 713-743-3333 or send an email to preventcrime@uh.edu *Course is limited to 50 attendees University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies