Skip to main content About SMU About SMU Maps & Directions Annual Report SMU Magazine Strategic Plan George W. Bush Presidential Center Academics Overview Majors & Minors Libraries Research Continuing & Professional Education Study Abroad International Student and Scholar Services Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education Human Development The Guildhall Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Athletics Mustangs Tickets Recreational Sports Campus Life Research Quick Links Academic Calendar Employment Events Calendar Giving to SMU SMU Store Student Affairs Bush Center Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. The Bush Center and SMU Partnership Center for Presidential History Tower Center for Public Policy and International Affairs Commencement Addresses Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process December 2000 SMU decides to pursue the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum; administrators and trustees form committees to develop a proposal. 2000-2001 Other competitors emerge: Texas A&M, University of Dallas, The University of Texas at Austin (system), The University of Texas at Arlington (with the City of Arlington), Baylor University, a West Texas Coalition consisting of Texas Tech University in Lubbock and Midland College in Midland. Summer 2004 SMU produces a proposal and presentation to have ready when President Bush calls for information. July 7, 2005 Library Selection Committee sends competitors a request for proposal seeking information on how they would house the library, museum and independent institute. September 14, 2005 SMU delivers its proposal package to the Selection Committee. October 12, 2005 The Selection Committee announces that Texas A&M University, The University of Texas System and the City of Arlington are eliminated from consideration. SMU, Baylor, the University of Dallas and the West Texas Coalition are the remaining four contenders. October 24, 2005 SMU receives a letter of invitation to make a presentation to the Selection Committee in Washington, D.C. November 15, 2005 SMU makes its presentation to the Selection Committee in Washington, D.C. December 19, 2005 SMU delivers materials and model to the White House for further review. March 16, 2006 The Selection Committee eliminates the West Texas Coalition bid from contention, leaving SMU, Baylor and the University of Dallas as finalists. December 21, 2006 The Library Selection Committee announces it is focusing on SMU as the possible site; negotiations begin. January 23, 2007 The University of Dallas drops its bid. February 22, 2008 SMU Board of Trustees and George W. Bush Presidential Library Foundation Board approve legal agreements establishing SMU as the site of the George W. Bush Presidential Center. A public announcement is made. February 14, 2009 Former President Bush begins periodic visits to SMU classes at the request of faculty and attends other campus activities. November 12, 2009 Former President and Mrs. Bush announce areas of focus for the George W. Bush Institute and announce its first Fellows. March-April 2010 The Bush Institute begins its series of symposia on campus, as announced in February, adding up to 12 programs by spring 2013. April 21, 2010 SMU’s John Goodwin Tower Center for Political Studies awards its Medal of Freedom to former President and Mrs. Bush. September 29, 2010 Bush Institute announces education reform research and programs in partnership with SMU’s Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development. October 15, 2010 SMU and the Bush Foundation execute final agreements for the lease of approximately 23 acres of land for construction of the Bush Center. October 23, 2010 Exhibit of Bush presidential artifacts and documents opens at SMU’s Meadows Museum, ending February 6, 2011. November 16, 2010 Groundbreaking is held for the Bush Center. April 2, 2011 Mrs. Bush receives the Literati Award from SMU’s Central University Libraries, honoring use of the written word to make a positive impact. October 3, 2011 The Bush Center hosts “topping out” ceremony and honors construction workers at the Library site. February 22, 2013 On the fifth anniversary of agreements between SMU and the Bush Foundation, SMU Board of Trustees passes resolution honoring and thanking former President and Mrs. Bush. April 19, 2013 As part of its Founders’ Day activities, SMU hosts a welcome ceremony on the Main Quad for the Bush Center. April 25, 2013 The Bush Center is dedicated with a series of events the week of April 21, culminating in the dedication on April 25. SMU and the Bush Center co-host a block party for the University community. April 29, 2013 The Bush Library and Museum host a special SMU visitation day for faculty, staff and students. May 1, 2013 The Bush Center opens to the public. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share