Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Key Research Areas Innovation & Entrepreneurship Highlighted Units & Facilities Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Graduate Research Home › Research › Graduate Research The Graduate School is responsible for broad policies and procedures governing post-baccalaureate programs in engineering, humanities, sciences, and social sciences. Notre Dame’s programs in law, business, and architecture are administered separately. The Graduate School has coined the phrase “your research matters” to describe its support and enthusiasm for graduate research. In addition to a portfolio of more than 50 program offerings, Notre Dame is one of only a handful of US colleges or universities that offer grant and research advice just to graduate students. It’s part of a holistic framework of guidance, mentorship, and teaching that helps to bring students’ research to a place that can impact the world. This development takes place in an intellectual community that is formed by a collection of resources, networking opportunities, and cultural offerings. The University has always had a commitment to educating the whole student, and that is as evident in the Graduate School as it is in undergraduate life. As students discern careers that will enable them to share research discoveries with communities beyond Notre Dame, the Graduate School provides professional training through a team of discipline-specific career consultants. Students also benefit from being within a like-minded campus community of scholars determined to be forces for good in the world outside of Notre Dame. Through initiatives like Irish Compass and the Idea Center’s McCloskey Business Competition, students pursue professional development in the context of interdisciplinary partnerships with fellow students who may someday be colleagues and teammates in professional spheres. Your Research Matters Fighting for Research that Matters A graduate student’s discovery of a new cell may lie at the heart of what’s causing her own illness Read story Key Research Areas Innovation & Entrepreneurship Highlighted Units & Facilities Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit