By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Technology More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program HEOP & SSS Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart Information Technology Services Syracuse University's Information Technology Services provides you with access to your NetID, MySlice account, Syracuse email account, and wifi. Learn more about technology at Syracuse Your NetID Access to the University’s network is controlled by a unique personal identifier—the NetID. If you have not activated your NetID, please do so immediately . You will need your SUID, which is included in your letter of admission. Your NetID gives you access to computing services and facilities, including the University’s high-speed wireless (AirOrangeX) network, Internet connections and public computers across campus, online resources including the Blackboard learning management system, and the University’s web-based email system, SUmail. All student residences enjoy high-speed wireless and wired network coverage. For more information, visit the Information Technology Services (ITS) website . Protect Yourself Do not share your SUID, NetID, and password with anyone, including your peers, friends, and family members. Your SUID is included on your admission notification and should not be posted online or via social media. In general, it is important not to share any personal information openly online. Please do not post your acceptance notification online where personal information such as your name, SUID, and address are visible. MySlice MySlice is your secure virtual gateway to life at Syracuse University and provides access to your Admission Acceptance Form (AAF), advising, the online course catalog, class registration, and financial aid, tuition, housing, and meal plan information. You can also configure MySlice to share “pieces” of your access with others, such as your parents or guardians (click on “ Share My Account ”). Email Your official email account is established in a system called SUmail. SUmail is managed by the University and utilizes Microsoft’s Office 365 cloud services. All official Syracuse University communication will be sent via email to your SUmail address upon your matriculation. If you choose to redirect this account to another account, such as @gmail.com or @yahoo.com, you do so at your own risk. Access your SUMail account As a current student, you can use your SUmail student email account to download and install Office 365 ProPlus applications (including Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) on up to five computers (PC and Mac) and five mobile devices (iPhone, iPad, Android smartphone, Windows Phone). Find out more about Office 365 ProPlus . Getting Online If you decide to attend Syracuse University, you will receive information about computing and connecting to the University’s secure wired and wireless networks in the ReadySET materials that all matriculated students receive over the summer. Be on the lookout for emails to your SUmail account from ITSComm@syr.edu that will provide details about computing in the Syracuse environment. Need Help? Check the Answers Knowledgebase , email help@syr.edu , call 315.443.2677, or visit ITS Support Services to get assistance. If you’re on campus, visit the ITS Service Center in the Center for Science and Technology. Related Pages MySlice MySlice is your secure virtual gateway to life at Syracuse University. ITS New Student Information Learn about the IT resources available to you as a student. NetID Activation Your NetID is a personal identifier that is used to access SU computing resources. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy