Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » Presidential Awards » Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Set Navigation title in component President's Award for Excellence Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Established in 2002, the Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence (PLME) is a prestigious honor awarded by the University President to exceptional graduating students who best exemplify scholarship, leadership, character, service and the ideals of the University of Cincinnati. Our 2022 Winners Maria Bobrowski-Artola College of Arts & Sciences Shivane Chawla College of Medicine Xiyanna Kellogg College-Conservatory of Music Daniel Posmik Lindner College of Business Previous Recipients Selection Criteria Strong candidates will be able to demonstrate significant experience in one or more of these criteria. Any candidate with significant contribution in even one of these criteria is encouraged to apply: Graduation. Eligibility for graduation from a baccalaureate degree program in August of the previous academic year, or December or April of the current academic year. Academic Learning & Discovery. The nominee has a cumulative University grade point average of 3.2 or better. S/he also exhibits evidence of high academic excellence (e.g., participation in research and/or the creative arts) and achievement. Examples of high academic achievement may include acceptance to prestigious graduate programs, presentations at professional association annual meetings, featured publications in publications that have a regional and/or inter/national circulation, or applications to inter/nationally competitive fellowships and scholarships such as the Goldwater. Innovation through Leadership. In their leadership activities, the nominee exhibits an innovation mindset, as demonstrated through creative problem solving, the ability to take initiative, a positive peer/community impact, and contributions to a group’s sustainability and growth. Examples include, but are not limited to: Founding or designing new programs, initiatives or organizations. Redesigning existing programs, initiatives or organizations. Participating in or winning UC IQ E-Pitch Competition or another prestigious innovation competition. Significant innovation through leadership in UC co-curricular activities (e.g., advocacy, governance, honorary, service, social or athletic organizations). Any recognition for innovative leadership at the regional, state, and/or inter/national organizational level should be noted. Community Participation. The nominee currently participates and gives back to the University and the community. Examples include significant participation in community activities, contribution to the community through the creation and/or enhancement of an organization/agency, or application to Teach For America, Americorps, the Truman Scholarship program, etc. Diversity. The nominee supports and furthers diversity and is recognized for their contributions at the regional, state, and/or inter/national level. Examples include engagement in programs such as the Racial Awareness Program (RAAP) , Accelerating Racial Justice (ARJ), Brother and Sisters Excelling (BASE, Activists Coming Together (ACT), Reclaim Peer Advocate Program, Women in Leadership and Learning (WILL) application to Teach For America or The Peace Corps. Global Engagement. The Nominee supports and participates in global engagement and has had a significant study abroad. Examples could include an application to the Peace Corps, the Foreign Service, the Kiva Fellows Program, a Gilman International Scholarship, or the Fulbright Fellowship Program. Potential for future success and achievement. The nominee’s current success is externally validated through local, state, regional, and/or inter/national recognition. This also includes application to the Rhodes, Marshall, Gates-Cambridge, and/or Mitchell Scholarships. The Application Process Clarifying questions or concerns about the application process may be directed to Tricia Yee at tricia.yee@uc.edu or 513-556-6236. Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top