Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar JTS in the Berkshires: Summer 2022 Date: Jul 29, 2022 Time: 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Location: Massachusetts Category: Community Courses JTS in the Berkshires Inspiring Learning with JTS Scholars Friday July 29, 2022 and Friday August 12, 2022 11 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. Shakespeare & Company Elayne P. Bernstein Theater 70 Kemble Street Lenox, Massachusetts Tickets: $15 per session Session I “Get Thee to a Nunnery”: Shakespeare and the Talmudic Rabbis in Conversation Friday July 29, 2022 How can Hamlet’s famous words to Ophelia help us think about the Rabbis use of the term zonah (harlot)? Join Dr. Marjorie Lehman, JTS professor of Talmud and Rabbinics, to explore which women the rabbis considered to be “harlots” and how the legal framework they developed relates to anxiety about the integrity of the rabbinic household and the Jewish community in a post-Temple era. Register Now Session II Spiritual Leadership for a New Era Friday August 12, 2022 What kinds of challenges and opportunities confront religious leaders today? Through an exploration of rabbinic, liturgical, and contemporary poetic texts, Rabbi Ayelet S. Cohen, JTS’s newly appointed dean of the Rabbinical School and Division of Religious Leadership, will share her vision for the future. Register Now For more information: contact Lynn Feinman at (212) 678-8821 or lyfeinman@jtsa.edu JTS in the Berkshires is presented in partnership with Knesset Israel and in cooperation with the Jewish Federation of the Berkshires. Supported in part by a grant from the Harold Grinspoon Foundation. About Dr. Marjorie Lehman Dr. Marjorie Lehman is professor of Talmud and Rabbinics at The Jewish Theological Seminary and the Area Coordinator of Rabbinic Literatures and Cultures. She teaches a wide range of courses in Rabbinics, including courses on gender in Talmudic literature, aggadah, halakhah, the history of the Jewish book, and pedagogy. Her scholarly journey reflects a commitment to balancing the historical and intellectual aspects of Jewish texts while also focusing on the ways they speak to and help us to understand our place in the contemporary moment. Read more About Rabbi Ayelet S. Cohen With more than two decades of leadership experience at world-class Jewish institutions, Rabbi Ayelet S. Cohen brings extensive qualifications to her role as Pearl Resnick Dean of The Rabbinical School. For a decade, she provided spiritual leadership at Congregation Beit Simchat Torah, the world’s largest LGBTQ synagogue, serving Jews of all sexual orientations and gender identities. Most recently, Rabbi Cohen was the senior director for the New York/Tri-State Region at the New Israel Fund. Prior to that role she was director of the Center for Jewish Living and the David H. Sonabend Center for Israel at the Marlene Meyerson Jewish Community Center in Manhattan. Rabbi Cohen earned her rabbinical ordination at JTS and her BA with honors from Brown University. She is the author of Changing Lives, Making History: Congregation Beit Simchat Torah, the First Forty Years, and co-editor of Siddur B’chol L’vavcha. She is also on the board of T’ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights and Plaza Jewish Community Chapels. Add To Calendar SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message