Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Full-time MBA Student & Alumni Profiles Home » Programs » MBA » Full-time MBA » Student & Alumni Profiles Menu Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Browse our Full-time MBA alumni profiles here. Learn why our students chose to pursue an MBA and chose Georgia Tech's Full-time MBA program over other options. View Profile » Michelle AlbertSenior Marketing Manager, Amazon Alumni View Profile » Kristen BrinsonStrategy & Management Associate, Bank of America Alumni View Profile » Luisa CalderonSenior Brand Manager - Spirits, E. & J. Gallo Winery Alumni View Profile » Katherine CrosbyPost-Grad Employment: Associate Brand Manager, Kimberly-Clark Professional Student View Profile » Ian EdelsonPathways Operation Manager, Amazon Alumni View Profile » Jaime FossSenior Business Development Manager, Couchbase Alumni View Profile » Michelle FrenssenSenior Consultant, Deloitte Alumni View Profile » Marcus HarmonConsultant, Simon-Kucher & Partners Alumni View Profile » Maria HarperPost-Grad Employment: Senior Associate, PwC Student View Profile » Jasmine HowardMarketing Manager, Optimization & Promotion, Mailchimp Alumni View Profile » Liz KiheiManager - Airport Customer Experience, Delta Alumni View Profile » Bill MizellFinance Project Lead, The Home Depot Alumni View Profile » Emily MuhlbergerConsultant, Slalom Alumni View Profile » Nithin NedumthakadyGraduate Research Assistant Student View Profile » Sachin PaiAssociate, McKinsey & Company Alumni View Profile » Francesca SallyPost-Grad Employment: Consultant, Bain Student View Profile » Jarrod SnellPost-Grad Employment: Senior Business Consultant, Liberty Mutual Student View Profile » Kyle WinklerPost-Grad Employment: Product Manager, Verizon Student Michelle Albert Senior Marketing Manager, Amazon Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA I love that the Scheller MBA program is established yet offers the opportunity for students to influence and shape our community. Be it diversity recruiting, practicum strategy, or how we do service, I was able to have a direct impact on some of the most important parts of our student experience. Kristen Brinson Strategy & Management Associate, Bank of America Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA The strength of Scheller's career services was one of the reasons I was excited to get my MBA here. Working with my career advisor and the rest of the team was a major factor in getting my internship and full-time roles. They helped guide me through every step of the process and continue supporting me now. Luisa Calderon Senior Brand Manager - Spirits, E. & J. Gallo Winery Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA My favorite thing about Scheller is the humble, intellectually honest, and collaborative community which makes for a strong network and great camaraderie. Katherine Crosby Post-Grad Employment: Associate Brand Manager, Kimberly-Clark Professional Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA The Jones Career Center was definitely a major factor for me in choosing Scheller. As someone making a big career pivot with my MBA, I knew I wanted to be at a school where I could have a close relationship with career advisors and ask them any questions. I found the staff extremely helpful and willing to help me put my best foot forward in interviews. Additionally, I loved the school’s focus on hands-on learning. With so many practicums to choose from, I knew I would get a chance to put what I was learning in the classroom to work in real-world scenarios. Given my nontraditional background, this was a critical factor for me. Ian Edelson Pathways Operation Manager, Amazon Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA My favorite thing about Scheller is my classmates. MBAs learn as much from their classmates as they do from their professors, so diversity of culture and experience is crucial. Scheller’s “we all win together” esprit de corps delivered in a big way. Jaime Foss Senior Business Development Manager, Couchbase Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA The opportunities to work with multiple entrepreneurship programs like TI:GER don’t exist at many other top business schools. Gaining these business experiences sold me on coming to Scheller. Michelle Frenssen Senior Consultant, Deloitte Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA Tech Square is a wonderful ecosystem. It’s a two-sided exchange between tech-focused businesses and Scheller students who are yearning to be part of cutting-edge innovation. The resources are endless. Marcus Harmon Consultant, Simon-Kucher & Partners Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA Being a veteran in the Scheller MBA program has been a unique experience. Meeting all of my classmates and learning about their experiences has helped me redefine what a traditional MBA background looks like. Coming to Scheller was one of the best decisions I’ve ever made. Maria Harper Post-Grad Employment: Senior Associate, PwC Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA The ties to technology in the curriculum and outside of class are unmatched. I've learned so much already about how to transform businesses (especially amidst today’s unique challenges) in my first semester. Jasmine Howard Marketing Manager, Optimization & Promotion, Mailchimp Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA I’m still in touch with my career coach and periodically connect with program management. I love how there’s not the distanced formality that usually exists within larger programs, where program staff doesn’t know all the students. While I was fortunate to start my new job on time after graduating during the pandemic, many people from our graduating class were extensively delayed. We all rallied around each other, stayed connected, and worked to find opportunities for those who were most heavily affected. We passed on leads and even helped with interview practice. One of the things that makes Scheller so special are the ways we continue to support and be supported by our classmates and community. Liz Kihei Manager - Airport Customer Experience, Delta Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA Since I didn't have a strict business background, I wanted a program with small class sizes and lots of career placement assistance so I could get the personalized attention I needed. Some of the best companies in the country, and all of the best companies in the region, recruit at Tech, so I knew I would be in a good program to find a great job. Bill Mizell Finance Project Lead, The Home Depot Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA The Jones MBA Career Center helped me pivot into the corporate finance world. The Center connected me with key alumni contacts around the Atlanta area in that field and provided invaluable interview practice and experience. My advisor, Dave Deiters, helped me by working with me to tailor a specific plan around recruiting and then holding me accountable for it. Emily Muhlberger Consultant, Slalom Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA I feel that Scheller has given me so much throughout my career. When I was a student looking for my next role, Scheller passed along my resume and gave me the foundation to build my professional network. I continue to give back to a school that has given me so much. I am thankful for Scheller and the opportunities it afforded me. Nithin Nedumthakady Graduate Research Assistant Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA Scheller intentionally designs classes to account for the world’s rapid transformation in the face of new technologies and global challenges. Sit in a class at Scheller, and you’ll realize that the discussions revolve around the implications and present day impact of technology-driven change. Industry leaders are constantly invited to give talks at Scheller, which allows students to get a first-hand understanding of how to leverage technology to achieve results. Furthermore, real-world application is a central focus for Scheller and is particularly emphasized in the experiential learning opportunities and practicums. Sachin Pai Associate, McKinsey & Company Status:Alumni Program:Full-time MBA As an international student, I had to deal with multiple challenges while navigating the U.S. job market. The team at the Jones MBA Career Center took cognizance of this fact early on, and my career advisor reached out to me even before the program started. He helped me craft a list of companies that would sponsor jobs for international candidates, which allowed me to have a targeted search process. The Jones MBA Career Center provided me with every resource possible, conducted mock interviews, connected me to alumni, and organized sessions with case coaches. As I reflect upon my experience, I can easily say that the support and the encouragement from members at the Jones MBA Career Center turned out to be the key difference-maker in my job search. The Jones MBA Career Center is an all-star team that sets you up for success! Francesca Sally Post-Grad Employment: Consultant, Bain Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA Coming from an engineering background, I was surprised by the range of experiences that my classmates have. We have so many students who have done such interesting things and have a broad range of backgrounds, which make our discussions in and out of class fascinating. Even with a larger engineering presence in the classrooms, no two engineers have done the same types of roles, so sometimes, I feel I learn as much from my peers as I do from my courses. Jarrod Snell Post-Grad Employment: Senior Business Consultant, Liberty Mutual Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA For veterans specifically, the registrar’s office and the MBA office have been extremely flexible and understanding on different veteran issues, requirements, and necessities. Also, one of the values that I looked for in an MBA program was a tight-knit family culture and Scheller definitely has it. Kyle Winkler Post-Grad Employment: Product Manager, Verizon Status:Student Program:Full-time MBA My favorite thing about Scheller is the community. My peers are diverse, intelligent, and a lot of fun to be around. Being in a small class size, I’ve had the opportunity to get to know classmates on a personal, professional, and academic level. I’ve learned just as much from them as I have from the coursework itself, and I know that in the future, I will be leaning on some of them as I navigate my post-MBA career. It’s been helpful having the numerous other students with engineering backgrounds, and it has been great to have them as a sounding board as we relate concepts to our previous experience and learn together. Related Links Experiential learning opportunities Frequently asked questions about career development Information for recruiters FAQs Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us The Intersection Podcast Listen to Full-time MBA students share their experiences Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures