Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Financial Planning Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Financial Planning Major Apply Request More Info Financial Planning Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Financial Planning Major Learn to protect, grow and manage assets with a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Financial Planning from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. The major prepares students to help future clients meet their financial goals through the proper management of financial resources. Financial planning is a growing, in-demand field that combines the analytical aspects of finance with the interpersonal skills needed for effective client communication. Financial planners establish client goals; analyze client current financial status; develop and present recommendations and alternatives to meet client goals; and implement and monitor these recommendations. Through the Bachelor of Business Administration in Financial Planning curriculum, you’ll gain a fundamental understanding of retirement planning, income tax and estate planning, insurance, investment allocation, and employee benefits planning. Learn cutting-edge financial software that will equip you to enter the crowded job market with a competitive edge. You will receive pivotal guidance and support from faculty who maintain substantial networks of organizational and business leaders in the local and national spheres. Graduates fulfill the necessary educational requirements and are equipped to sit for the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) exam, the nationally recognized and highly regarded designation within the financial planning industry. Classes & Curriculum Financial Planning BBA students learn the fundamentals of finance and the intricacies of asset management. Some of the core courses include Introduction to Financial Planning; Insurance, Benefits and Retirement Planning; Security Analysis and Benefit Planning; and Tax, Estate and Trust Planning. Learn more about Financial Planning Bachelor of Business Administration coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Master of Accountancy Financial Analysis MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Online BBA Program The Bachelor of Business Administration in Financial Planning is available as an Online BBA degree program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contacts For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to finance students in the Fox School of Business. Ascend is a student organization that works to develop and foster leadership skills in Asian and Pacific Islander students interested in pursuing a career in accounting and finance. The Temple Finance Association focuses on exposing members to industry professionals through guest speakers across equity research, corporate finance, portfolio management, banking, wealth management and more. The mission of the Financial Planning Association is to help students cultivate an understanding of the latitude of topics in the personal financial planning and advising industry. The Temple University Investment Association allows students to put investment principles into practice. The association generates and distributes information regarding the William C. Dunkelberg Owl Fund portfolio, a student-managed investment fund. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-FINP-BBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Financial Planning Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info