Check here for up-to-date information on the Gutman Library 2nd floor renovation project! Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Gutman Library About the Library Gutman Mission To advance HGSE’s mission, Monroe C. Gutman Library partners with students, faculty, alumni, and staff to enhance education research, teaching, and professional practice. Librarians provide expertise, curate distinctive collections, and manage services, programs, and spaces. Gutman Vision We aspire to be the first destination for leaders and scholars seeking and advancing knowledge to foster educational innovation and promote educational equity. Gutman Values Access: We provide a respectful, inclusive, welcoming, and accessible environment. Our collections and services foster inquiry, discovery, and learning in support of the research and practice needs of our users. Service: We serve a diverse community of educators and scholars by actively working to identify and meet their needs to encourage academic success. Stewardship: We seek to responsibly acquire, promote, and maintain information in all formats with present and future concerns in mind. With care and respect, we shepherd our resources, develop our collections, and support our staff. Collaboration: We endeavor to collaborate as a team, engage with our users, partner with faculty and researchers, and connect to the wider library community to improve services and access to information. Innovation: We embrace new services and technologies that hone our skills and benefit our users. Gutman Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Diversity, equity, and inclusion at the Harvard Graduate School of Education encompasses the intersectionality of the human experience and includes qualities such as race, gender, ethnicity, physical ability, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation, first generation status in higher education, economic status, and veteran status. HGSE’s core values regarding diversity, equity, and inclusion are infused in Gutman Library’s mission, vision and values. Through the library’s services, collections, physical spaces, and stewardship, we seek and provide opportunities to gain experience working and collaborating in diverse, equitable, and inclusive settings with a willingness to change for continuous advancement. A Brief History of Monroe C. Gutman Library Gutman Library opened in 1972. The building's principal benefactor, Monroe C. Gutman (Harvard College 1905), an investment banker, took a deep interest in education; he also funded a professorship in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard and established the Gutman National Scholarships in Harvard College. Mr. Gutman passed away in 1974. In that same year, the Boston Society of Architects awarded the Benjamin Thompson and Associates design the prestigious Harleston Parker Medal. Gutman Library was the first library building built by the School since its founding in 1920. Previously, there had been a small working collection in Longfellow Hall; however, the main collections supporting the study of education were in Widener Library as well as at other campus locations. With the opening of Gutman, many of Harvard's enormous resources in education, developed continuously from the 17th century, were given a home as an integral part of the School. Widener, Schlesinger, the University Archives, and other libraries and repositories at Harvard contain related resources, making the University a major center for research in all aspects of education. Gutman's first floor houses the Commons Cafe, the Gutman Gallery, a collaborative study area, and current periodicals. Located on the second floor are the library's Main Desk, administration offices, book stacks, computer stations, and quiet study area. The Gutman building also houses Information Technology (IT) services, other HGSE programs, and the Gutman Conference Center. In this section Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Gutman Library Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice