Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Academic Success Programs Services Services Academic Counseling Tutoring Writing Center Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Learning Skills Courses Learning Strategies Workshops Academic Center for Excellence Academic Development of Student-Athletes Pre-Major Probation FAQs FAQs Transitioning to life at SMU About About People Mission and Goals Give ☰ Student Academic Success Programs Services Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies DASS is the primary contact for all SMU students with disabilities. This office assists students with disabilities to effectively utilize resources they may need and helps them work with professors and staff to implement appropriate and reasonable accommodations and services. DASS is dedicated to providing an equal opportunity to participate in the University's curriculum, programs, and activities. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, DASS will evaluate and accommodate those students who are significantly impacted by a condition that is considered disabling, including learning disabilities, physical disabilities, psychiatric disorders, and others. In order to establish eligibility for accommodations, students must contact our office. The student is responsible for requesting our services. To start the process, please review the Disability Accommodations page, and review the procedures for applying for accommodations and submitting supporting documentation to our office. For continuing DASS students with accommodations and faculty working with those students, you can view your letters of accommodations in DASS Link. DASS Link for students: Go to the DASS Link log-in page. DASS Link for faculty: Go to the DASS Link log-in page. DASS staff members are here to support all of our students with disabilities! We are available for phone calls, Zoom sessions, remote intakes, and emails. Our main phone number (214-768-1470) is answered during regular business hours, as well. Incoming SMU Students For new students who will be starting in the Fall Semester (2022), we would like to welcome you as a new Mustang! See our Introduction to DASS video below and follow along with the DASS Red & Blue flyer: Join us this summer for a DASS Virtual Open House! A DASS staff member will be available to give a brief overview of our services, policies, and procedures on: Monday, June 13, at 2pm Central; Zoom Link: https://smu.zoom.us/j/97390263772 Tuesday, July 12, at 2pm Central; Zoom Link: https://smu.zoom.us/j/93636486895 We are also available by phone to talk about any concerns you have. If you anticipate needing accommodations, please see the Disability Accommodations page, for step-by-step instructions. We encourage you to start this process in May/June, but if you anticipate needing a housing accommodation, please start the accommodation process immediately. Success Strategies DASS also provides success strategies support for SMU undergraduates with learning and attention disorders. These students may benefit from assistance with study skills instruction, self-advocacy skills, time management and organization strategies, and general mentoring. This academic coaching, coupled with participating in HDEV 1110: Reading and Learning Strategies (advanced reading and study skills course), Students for New Learning (student support and networking group), and other ALEC services (tutoring, writing center, academic workshops) can greatly enhance students' ability to succeed at SMU. Covid-19 Please refer to the Mustang Strong website for up to date information about campus policies related to COVID-19. We look forward to working with you! Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Loyd Center Suite 202 214-768-1470 Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Applying for Accommodations Success Strategies for Students with ADHD, LD, and ASD Resources and Campus Accessibility DASS Link FAQ's Contact Us Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share