Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Graduate Student Life Housing Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Engineering Community Standards Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources The New York City housing market can be overwhelming, but Columbia is dedicated to helping its students find safe, affordable housing. Incoming Columbia Engineering Graduate students can leverage the following resources to secure housing, both On and Off-campus. Please keep in mind that Columbia Housing is highly competitive with the majority of our masters students living off-campus. General Information The Fall 2022 Application is now open. Please see below for instructions on how to apply. Questions or concerns: [email protected] Fall 2022 Incoming Students Within two weeks from your acceptance, receive an email from the Office of Graduate Student Affairs to your personal e-mail address (provided during the application process). This email will contain your PID, UNI, and a link to the housing application, via My Housing Portal. If you do not receive this e-mail within two weeks, please contact welcome2SEAS@columbia.edu to inquire further. Priority is given to incoming doctoral students. Allocation and notification are typically made late in the Spring Semester. Continuing Students If you had applied for housing as a new student, your account should remain active. You must be logged into LionMail to view the code. Your PID can be found in SSOL. Please be advised that continuing students are usually placed on the waitlist. Learn more about the waitlist process. Allocation and notification are typically made late in the Spring Semester. Approved Housing Applications Approved Applications If you decline the housing offer, you will lose your on-campus housing approval. Students will have the opportunity to transfer to other housing twice a year if necessary. However, applications for transfer are not guaranteed. Students wishing to change from single to couples housing will have the opportunity to transfer later in their tenure through the usual transfer process with University Apartment Housing. Conditions required to maintain on campus housing status Full-time student status (12 credits per term) during the academic year. Housing is granted for a maximum of 5 years or the length of your original admitted degree program (whichever is less). MS-Track and/or PhD students enrolled in the degree program beyond the maximum housing limit must petition to request a housing extension through the Office of Graduate Student Services. Approved Students Must Reapply for Housing in the Following Conditions MS-only students - if they later apply to an advanced degree beyond the MS level (i.e., PhD program). If admitted to a new academic department within SEAS (i.e., Mechanical to IEOR). Failing to graduate within designated term while enrolled in housing. When returning from a Leave of Absence. Withdrawing from an academic program. Upon graduation. APPLICATION PROCESS WAITLIST MOVE IN INFO INTERNATIONAL HOUSE ACCOMMODATIONS MANHATTAN (HARLEM), NY Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation HOUSING PORTAL Apply for housing, request a transfer, get building information, and more Resident Information & Policies Review information about policies and procedures for residents and prospective residents. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Review the Housing & COVID-19 FAQ, which is updated often with information about changes to policy or procedures. Current Residents Welcome to this resource section for current residents of Columbia Residential. Disability Housing Accommodations Accommodations are provided for students whose disabilities substantially limit their ability to live in Columbia’s traditional housing arrangements Immunization Requirements - ALL Students Congratulations, and welcome to Columbia Engineering! GSA is available to assist you with understanding and navigating this housing process. And for those doctoral students, I am a resource for you as you pursue your degree. Stephanie Fernandez, EdD Doctoral Affairs Manager HOUSING PORTAL Apply for housing, request a transfer, get building information, and more. ACCESS YOUR HOUSING PORTAL IMPORTANT DATES February 1 – Fall housing application opens March 1 – School allocation approvals begin for Fall housing April 1 – Fall Housing selection begins for approved students May 1 – Earliest move-in date for Fall move-ins May 20 – Engineering Deadline for doctoral students' housing application submission May 23 – Housing Allocations begin for master's students. June 8 – School allocation approvals end for Fall housing June 15 – Fall housing Waitlist opens June 30 – Last day to cancel a Fall housing offer and receive a refund of the reservation fee September 23 – Fall application closes & last day of fall waitlist housing selection September 30 – Last day for fall move-ins Columbia Off-Campus Housing Assistance Office The Columbia University Off-Campus Housing Assistance office helps students find safe, convenient, and cost-effective rentals for all students studying at the university. The office also supports students with sublet questions, finding roommates and other important housing questions. Off-Campus Housing Assistance International House (I-House) International House is a vibrant residence and program center of more than 700 graduate students and trainees representing more than 100 countries. It is perhaps the most culturally diverse student community in all of New York City. An independent, non-profit organization, I-House fosters daily interaction among its residents through an array of programs, attractive facilities and residential life designed to foster diversity of thought and experience. Learn More About I-House Temporary Housing The Office of Graduate Student Affairs has aggregated some temporary housing resources across New York City. All accommodations are made between the guests and establishments. University staff does not offer assistance with bookings and is not responsible for any arrangements made with the listed establishments. Temporary Housing Resources Columbia Engineering Housing Contacts Yannick Brookes Assistant Dean, Graduate Student Affairs (he/him) [email protected] (NEW/INCOMING STUDENTS) [email protected] (RETURNING STUDENTS ONLY) Housing Appointment (New Students) Housing Appointment (Returning Students) Housing Message Boards Columbia Engineering - Housing Search is a group page hosted on Facebook.com and monitored by Graduate Student Affairs. HAVE AN EMERGENCY Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Public Safety Resources Download Lion Safe App Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University