Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Student Life Blog Student Life Blog Who better to tell you about Georgetown than the Hoyas that have made it their home? Hear directly from your future friends and classmates about what it’s like living and learning here on the Hilltop. Play Youtube Video A Day in the Life What does a typical Thursday look like at Georgetown? Zehra Mirza (C’24) takes you through a day in her life — what she eats, when she studies and where she hangs out. Follow Georgetown Stories on Instagram Play Youtube Video Explore DC Georgetown’s campus and neighborhood are just the beginning of DC’s food, art and music scene. Explore the nation’s capital alongside students as they catch a game downtown, run to the monuments and get a taste of DC’s food and drink. Watch More Things To Do in DC Advice for New and Future Hoyas More Tips for Hoyas The Top 6 Ways Students Get Around the City A Bucket List for a First-Year Hoya in DC In the world of Washington D.C., there is infinite opportunities and adventures. Before I graduate, I want to be able to explore and experience the many… 5 Pieces of Advice I Wish I Got as a Freshman Now that I am well into my sophomore year at Georgetown, I often take time to reflect on my time here so far and where I see myself developing. Although… Play Youtube Video Get Involved Getting involved in one of Georgetown’s 300+ student-run cultural, performance, athletic and professional groups means learning outside the classroom, having fun and forming life-long friendships. What will you do on the Hilltop? Watch More About Clubs at Georgetown Play Youtube Video Intern, Work, Volunteer DC is an international hub for diplomacy, business, art, service and more. Apply your classroom knowledge to real-world opportunities that make a difference. Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog