Skip to main content Skip to main navigation College of Arts & Sciences Menu About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give Baylor>Arts & Sciences>About>James Vardaman Endowed Professorship James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Fund Photo by Louis Muldrow Who is James Vardaman? During his 33-year teaching career at Baylor University, Dr. James W. Vardaman instilled a love of history in thousands of students and in the process he became one of the most beloved faculty members on campus. Many students would echo the sentiments of film director Kevin Reynolds, who recalled his time at Baylor by saying, "It is one of the greatest treasures of my life to be able to say, 'I took history with Jim Vardaman.'" Born on the eve of the Great Depression in Dallas, Texas, Dr. Vardaman grew up listening to the sermons of legendary pastor George W. Truett while attending the First Baptist Church of Dallas. After leaving high school and serving four years in the Marine Corps during the late 1940s, Dr. Vardaman fulfilled a dream by attending Dr. Truett’s alma mater, Baylor University, and earning a BA in history in 1951. He added an MA degree from the University of Minnesota in 1952 and a PhD from Vanderbilt University in 1957. After holding faculty positions at TCU and then the Virginia Military Institute, in 1967 Dr. Vardaman accepted a faculty position at Baylor University, where his sister -- the beloved English professor Ann Miller -- was teaching. Over the next 33 years until his retirement in 2000, Dr. Vardaman received numerous honors including the Professor of the Year Award for 1968-1969, the Baylor University Outstanding Professor Award in 1986 and the designation of Master Teacher in 1993. He was named an Outstanding Contributor to the Honors Program in 1999, and was elected to Baylor’s chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in 2011. The men and women who were fortunate enough to take one of Dr. Vardaman’s classes in British, French, German, European and world history retain warm memories of the experience, and of their professor. "I took [his] history class as a freshman…I remember writing a note at the end of my final exam blue book saying that [he was] the most incredible teacher I had ever studied with," said David Kent, who won a national debate championship while at Baylor. "[He] had the deepest, most lasting influence on me of anyone outside my own family," said Mike Horner. "More than anyone else, [he] instilled in me the joy of learning and the love of history, priceless possessions every day of my life." "[He] always saw more in me than I saw in myself. [He] always inspired me to try to be a better person," said Marianne Sawyer Stambaugh. Dr. Vardaman has also played a part in inspiring and influencing future teachers. "When I became a teacher, [he was] the standard by which I judged myself," said Dr. William English, now a professor of communication at Baylor. "I am certain of two things: I never reached the standard [he] set for me, and because of [his] example I am a much better teacher than I ever would have been." “The time with Vardaman was an intellectual turning point in my life," said Dr. Timothy Fehler, a professor of history at Furman University who won a meritorious teaching award there. "I still think about Vardaman every day when I go in the classroom. His impact on me has been enormous. I hope that I can someday impact a student’s life in the same way." In addition to his work in the classroom, Dr. Vardaman broadened the historical knowledge of hundreds of Baylor students and alumni through the many overseas tours and study abroad programs he not only taught in but often directed. He began the Baylor in the British Isles program in 1981 and served as its director for 11 years, and also initiated and taught in the Baylor in Maastricht study abroad program from 1995-1997. He served as a professor in exchange and extension programs in China, Europe and the Middle East, and has led Baylor alumni and administrators on travel programs in more than 40 countries on five continents. Dr. Vardaman also served four years as Baylor’s Director of International Programs, as well as the Jo Murphy Chair in International Education. He passed away Jan. 31, 2018, at age 89. Why create the Vardaman Fund? To honor Dr. Vardaman’s legacy of teaching and service to the University, a number of funds have been established over the past 30 years by his friends and former students to provide scholarships to deserving students. The James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Fund, established by a friend and generous donor, builds on these previous efforts to provide a permanent endowment that will attract and retain a professor in the Department of History within the College of Arts & Sciences. The funds may be used for, but are not limited to, the support of salary, research needs, scholarship and travel expenses. To support the James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Fund today, visit our secure online giving site or contact one of these Baylor College of Arts & Sciences development officers: David Cortes David_Cortes@baylor.edu (254) 230-2311 Clayton Ellis Clayton_Ellis@baylor.edu (254) 710-8525 Jim Shepelwich Jim_Shepelwich@baylor.edu (254) 710-8538 ------------------------------------- Other James Vardaman resources Fall 2015 Baylor Arts & Sciences magazine profile: The Life-changing Legacy of James Vardaman Oral memoirs of James Vardaman (from Baylor Institute for Oral History) James W. Vardaman resume (PDF) Dr. Vardaman's list of significant texts (PDF) Essay: Texans, Texas and Me (PDF) Charge to Phi Beta Kappa initiates (PDF) Wacoan magazine profile: Book Junkies Letter from Dr. Corbett Schimming (PDF) George W. Truett remembered (PDF) James Vardaman video interviews by the Baylor Line Foundation About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences One Bear Place #97344 Waco, TX 76798-7344 (254) 710-3361 Facebook Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give