Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics Conservation Energy People News Graduate Degree Programs in Charleston Clemson University now offers graduate programs in the Charleston area for full-time students as well as working engineers and scientists. Classes are held at the Zucker Family Graduate Education Center in North Charleston. More information about these programs is available below or you can contact the Student Services Manager, Rob Seay, at raseay@clemson.edu Apply now for Summer/Fall 2022: APPLY NOW Master's Degrees Doctorate Degrees Certificates Computer Engineering, Master of Science The master’s degree builds on a strong undergraduate background in electrical or computer engineering. Subject areas covered include communication systems and networks, digital signal processing, computer systems architecture, and intelligent systems. More info Computer Engineering MS, Cybersecurity Emphasis Prerequisites for this degree are a BS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and some coursework or professional experience with networking and operating systems. Foundational classes cover Security and Distributed Denial of Service. More info Computer Science MS Prerequisites for this degree are a BS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and some coursework or professional experience with networking and operating systems. . More info Computer Science MS, Cybersecurity Emphasis Prerequisites for this degree are a BS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and some coursework or professional experience with networking and operating systems. Foundational classes cover Security and Distributed Denial of Service. More info Digital Production Arts, Master of Fine Arts The Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in Digital Production Arts (DPA) is aimed at producing technically savvy, artistically talented graduates who are sought after by the growing electronic arts industry, including the film, and gaming industries. More info Digital Production Arts, Master of Science The Master of Science (MS) in Digital Production Arts (DPA) Program is a technical professional degree aimed at producing graduates who seek employment in the software development of the electronic arts industry. More info Electrical Engineering, Master of Engineering The Master of Engineering degree is designed to provide an advanced electrical engineering education to working engineering professionals. Subject areas include power systems engineering, power electronics, and communications and networking. More info Electrical Engineering MEng. - Cybersecurity Emphasis Prerequisites for this degree are a BS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and some coursework or professional experience with networking and operating systems. Foundational classes cover Security and Distributed Denial of Service. More info Electrical Engineering, Master of Science The master’s degree builds on a strong undergraduate background in electrical or computer engineering. Subject areas covered include power systems engineering, power electronics, and communications and networking. More info Electrical Engineering MS, Cybersecurity Emphasis Prerequisites for this degree are a BS in Computer Science, Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering and some coursework or professional experience with networking and operating systems. Foundational classes cover Security and Distributed Denial of Service. More info Mechanical Engineering, Master of Science This degree builds upon a strong background in mechanical engineering. Topics range from manufacturing systems to material processing; mechanics of materials to thermodynamics; dynamic systems and controls to engineering design practice and methods. More info Computer Engineering, PhD This doctoral degree builds on a strong background in electrical or computer engineering. Subject areas include circuits, controls, computer hardware and architecture, computer system structures, probability and random variables, programming systems and software engineering, signals, and systems. More info Computer Science, PhD The Ph.D. in computer science prepares individuals for research careers in industry or academia. Students will graduate with a strong foundation in computer science, practical experience in implementing software systems and the ability to perform original research. More info Electrical Engineering, PhD This doctoral degree builds on a strong background in electrical or computer engineering. Subject areas covered will initially include circuits, controls, electronics, electromagnetics, power & energy systems, probability and random variables, signals, and systems. More info Mechanical Engineering, PhD Ph.D. students enrolled in this program will have the opportunity to undertake research projects at Clemson University's SCE&G Energy Innovation Center in Charleston, which is among the world's most advanced energy testing and research facilities. More info Advanced Power Systems This certificate program is intended for students who already possess a working knowledge of modern power systems. A prerequisite for entering this program is a BS degree in Electrical Engineering. Classes cover power systems protection, dynamics/stability, transients, and distribution. More info Graduate Programs Advanced Power Systems Engineering Certificate Computer Engineering Computer Science Digital Production Arts Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Graduate Overview Undergraduate Opportunities The Zucker Center Zucker Help Desk Course Offerings Faculty Resources Student Resources TIGE Agreement Prospective Student Tour Request Success Stories Copyright © Clemson University Clemson in Charleston | 1240 Supply Street | North Charleston, SC 29405 843-730-5113 | Email Us