By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Facts, Figures and Rankings More from this Section The Office of University Counsel Our Powerful Network Lifetime of Impact Now Needs You Community Engagement Brand University Ombuds Vision & Mission Campus Store Consumer Information Help & Contacts Social Media News Work at Syracuse Partnerships Leadership Campus Shuttle Plan Your Visit Campus Map History Facts, Figures and Rankings With a gorgeous campus in the heart of New York State, a global footprint and 150 years of history, Syracuse University is made for those who want a quintessential college experience. Under the leadership of Kent Syverud, our 12th Chancellor and President, Syracuse is recognized as a student-focused global research university renowned for its academic rigor, richly diverse learning experiences and spirit of discovery. Request information Find out more about: Key Facts Reputation Research Profile Syracuse People Tuition and Financial Aid Key Facts Founded in 1870, Syracuse University is a private, coeducational research institution located in the heart of Central New York. Students can choose from more than 200 majors, 100 minors, and 200 advanced degree programs across the University's 13 academic units. Founded 1870 Accreditation Middle States Commission on Higher Education Color Orange Mascot Otto the Orange Motto Suos Cultores Scientia Coronat Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Is Syracuse University public or private? Syracuse University is a private research university located in Syracuse, New York. The University was incorporated on March 24, 1870 and grew rapidly, establishing programs in architecture and fine arts that were among the nation’s earliest. By 1934, the University’s academic divisions had grown to comprise 13 schools and colleges . At the end of fiscal year 2019, the University’s endowment fund was valued at approximately $1.4 billion. Where is Syracuse University located? Our main campus sits atop a hill overlooking the city of Syracuse, New York. Additional centers are located in New York City, Washington D.C., and Los Angeles, and study abroad programs are available in 60 countries throughout the world, enabling students to gain a global perspective as they pursue their studies. How does Syracuse support its commitment to veterans? Our commitment to veteran and military-connected students dates back more than 100 years, garnering recognition by Military Times as the No. 1 private school and No. 5 school overall in its annual Best for Vets rankings. The Office of Veteran and Military Affairs supports veteran and military-connected students on campus. In spring 2020, the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello building opened as home to the National Veterans Resource Center , a first-of-its-kind facility dedicated to serving the social, economic and wellness concerns of the nation’s veterans and their families. Reputation Syracuse is a university of national stature and international opportunity, known for its professional programs, investment in research and innovation, and undeniable school spirit. Latest Rankings Ranked #58 among the Best National Universities by U.S News & WR, Syracuse offers many highly-ranked programs and co-curricular opportunities, including: #1 Best College Newspaper, 2020 Princeton Review #1 Public Management and Leadership, 2021 U.S. News & World Report #2 Information Science, 2021 College Factual #3 Entrepreneurial Studies, 2021 College Factual #4 Best Human Development & Family Studies Colleges in the U.S., 2020 College Factual #4 Entrepreneurial Studies, 2020 College Factual #5 Architecture, 2020 DesignIntelligence #5 Best Colleges Offering Degrees in Communications and Journalism, 2021 College Factual #10 Study Abroad, 2021 U.S. News & World Report #10 Most Represented Colleges on Broadway in the 2018-19 Season, 2018 Playbill #11 Social Work, 2020 College Factual #13 Entrepreneurship, 2017 U.S. News & World Report #16 Best School for Education Majors by Salary Potential, 2020 Payscale College Salary Report #16 Top American Film Schools, 2020 The Hollywood Reporter #17 Top Marketing Colleges in the U.S., 2020 College Factual Marketing Degree Buying Guide #21 Top Music Schools, 2016 The Hollywood Reporter #23 Best Schools for Art Majors by Salary Potential, 2017-18 Payscale College Salary Report #23 Best Undergraduate Business School, 2016 Bloomberg Businessweek Graduate Schools and Programs #1 Best Graduate Schools for Public Affairs, 2021 U.S. News & World Report #5 Information Systems, 2021 U.S. News & World Report #6 Library and Information Studies, 2021 U.S. News & World Report #7 Best Postgraduate Architecture Program in the U.S., 2019 Best Architecture Masters Veterans and Military-Connected Students #1 Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises Program for Veterans, 2018 College Factual #1 Cybersecurity Program, 2018 Military Times #5 Best Colleges for Veterans, 2020 Military Times Gold-Tier Top 10 Military-Friendly School, 2021 Military Friendly® Schools Research Profile Centers and Institutes Infused with a strong entrepreneurial culture, the University is home to over 40 research centers and institutes spanning disciplines from performance, design, fine arts and humanities to information, health, social sciences and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields. Sponsored Programs Designated as a Research 1 institution, Syracuse University was awarded a total of $78.9 million in fiscal year 2021. Library Holdings Featuring quiet study spaces, group meeting rooms, wireless access, 24/7 assistance and 4.8 million items, Syracuse University Libraries support research and scholarship throughout campus and beyond. Total items (excluding e-books) 4.8 million All titles (excluding e-books) 3.9 million Journal titles (print and electronic) 187,343 E-book titles 697,448 Syracuse People Enrollment and Demographics Syracuse University’s total enrollment for Fall 2020 was 21,322, including both full- and part-time students in undergraduate, graduate and law programs. This student population represented all 50 U.S. states and 120 countries. Total Students Male Female Undergraduate Total Students 14,479 Male 46.3% Female 53.7% Graduate Total Students 6,193 Male 50.1% Female 49.9% Law Total Students 650 Male 47.2% Female 52.8% All University Total Total Students 21,322 Male 47.4% Female 52.6% Fall 2020 Census For further details on race, ethnicity, Pell status, and graduation rates, visit the Office of Institutional Research and Assessment . Faculty and Staff More than half of Syracuse University’s undergraduate classes have fewer than 20 students, allowing for close mentoring and support from our dedicated faculty and staff. Tenured and tenure-track faculty 935 Non-tenure-track faculty 829 Student to Faculty Ratio 15-to-1 Staff 3,769 Alumni Syracuse University has more than a quarter of a million alumni in 171 countries . It’s a tight-knit and well-connected community eager to help students with internships and other learning opportunities, as well as job placement. Alumni 264,542 Region of origin 50 U.S. states, 171 countries and territories Tuition and Financial Aid During the 2020-21 academic year, 83% of Syracuse University undergraduate students received some form of financial support totaling more than $411 million , including assistance from institutional, federal, state and private sources. The single largest form of that financial aid was the more than $282 million awarded to students in the form of Syracuse University grants and scholarships. Also of Interest Link Research Link Research at Syracuse seeks to address pressing global needs, and strives to involve students at every opportunity. History Link The history of Syracuse University may date back to 1870, but that doesn’t mean we’re caught in the past. Campus Map Link Here you’ll find comprehensive campus maps to academic buildings, residence halls, parking, directions, and more. Traditions Link Along with our 150-year history comes a number of beloved traditions that are passed down from student to student, year after year. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy