Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress » New Concentration Ideas Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies New Concentration Ideas You cannot wish yourself into concentration. You need to have an environment and mindset that will allow you to sit down and focus on your task at hand. These tips promote the balance and mental stamina that will help you in your studies. Approximately 1% of the world’s population will attend college. You have an important opportunity while at UC, and it’s up to you to take advantage of that during your time here. Regardless of the challenges you might face, trying to focus on the positive aspects of your life will allow you to continue to find motivation. Pay Attention This applies to your classes, but also to your surroundings as a whole. You won’t be able to enjoy college if you spend all four years over a book, but you won’t be able to finish college if you go out every night. Find a balance and focus on each task as you complete it. If you cannot study because you’re worried about your finances, family, or other personal issue, talk to someone, go for a walk, or write it down; then get to studying. If you cannot enjoy your time with friends because you’re worried about your grades, schedule time to prepare, turn off your phone, and focus on your target. Whatever you’re doing, pay attention. Prepare Do you have all your notes to study? Have you read all the necessary chapters? Gone to class? Do you have basic preparation items like a pen and food. Preparing for success includes not only studying, but having the tools and time to study. Make sure that you know what books and school supplies you need to stay organized, but also think about those everyday items that you will need to stay functioning. Write it Down Forget about appointments and assignments? Which subjects you need to review? Regardless of how great your memory is, it’s not as reliable as a calendar, checklist, or planner. Make it digitally or use old-fashioned pen and paper. Whatever you do, start writing down assignments, appointments, and important dates now. This will assure that nothing slips off your radar and get you in the habit of solidifying and recording your obligations. Be Pragmatic and Realistic Don’t plan to change your habits overnight. If you haven’t been studying and attending classes, it’s unlikely that your 6 hour cram session will earn you an A+. Instead, choose to make gradual, accomplishable changes that will lead to a more organized and successful you. Make your goals concrete. Instead of planning to “study,” mark out the exact chapters and notes you will review, for how long, and where you will do so. This kind of detail will allow you to keep track of you progress and allow you to focus on content, rather than feeling overwhelmed by the task at hand. You Don't Have to Succeed Alone It’s hard to commit to unpleasant tasks, or to hold ourselves accountable. Try to build supports into your work to make it easier. Have a study-buddy. Make tutoring appointments to force yourself to attend and review material. Make a schedule that will tell you when to study, rather than depending on yourself to decide to study. Let your friends and family know about your goals and upcoming tasks to make yourself accountable. Enjoy Yourself! If you hate your major, then reconsider your future career in it. If you’re always studying, ask yourself whether you could be more efficient. Your time at UC will fly by if you’re working and giving yourself time to explore new ideas and grow as a person, but if you’re constantly stressed, overwhelmed, and unhappy, then you might burnout before you achieve your degree. Instead, find a balance, find good friends, and find a subject and career that motivate and inspire you! Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top