About Message from the Director Our Team Advisory Board Faculty Why NYC? Contact Us News Students Courses Frequently Asked Questions Healthcare Industry Association Careers HPM Student Voices Hiring Alumni Alumni Profiles Alumni News Alumni Perspectives Get Involved & Stay Connected Research Case Studies Faculty Events CBS Annual Healthcare Conference Support Us Directory Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program About Message from the Director Our Team Advisory Board Faculty Why NYC? Contact Us News Students Courses Frequently Asked Questions Healthcare Industry Association Careers HPM Student Voices Hiring Alumni Alumni Profiles Alumni News Alumni Perspectives Get Involved & Stay Connected Research Case Studies Faculty Events CBS Annual Healthcare Conference Support Us Healthcare-Website-Photo-vs7_Web.jpg Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program (HPM) HPM is the home base at Columbia Business School for the healthcare industry curriculum, recruiting, alumni engagement, industry partnerships and cross-university collaborations. Watch our new video about the program here. healthcare-crossroads-055.jpg The Gabelli Funds - Columbia Business School Healthcare Symposium On Friday, November 19, 2021 Gabelli Funds and HPM hosted a virtual healthcare symposium with changemakers and leaders from across industries to discuss the most pressing healthcare issues of today. The symposium featured panel topics include 1) The Future of Alzheimer's Care and Treatment 2) New Technologies in Biopharma 3) Data Mining and Artificial Intelligence in Patient Care. To watch the video please click here. healthcare-crossroads-018.jpg Healthcare Business Students The Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program's (HPM) students are eager to tackle the myriad issues and challenges facing the healthcare industry. Wherever you are on the journey, you'll find support from HPM leadership and kindred spirits by connecting with the student-led Healthcare Industry Association (HCIA). 190110_columbia_event149_For-Web.jpg Our First Endowed Gift We are delighted to share the exciting news that Tom DeRosa ’88, CEO of Welltower, a member of the School’s Board of Overseers and HPM Advisory Board, has created an endowed fund to support the Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program at Columbia Business School. Learn More → Spotlight On: Healthcare Webinar Quicklinks: Share a Job Posting | In The Media | Youtube Videos | Healthcare Podcast Columbia Business School Mailing List Subscribe to the Healthcare and Pharmaceutical Management Program mailing list. Sign up → Prospective Students FAQs Healthcare Webinar for Prospective Students Inside the CBS Class: Improving Healthcare during COVID-19 through Analytics HPM YouTube Channel Current Students Join the Healthcare Industry Association (HCIA) HCIA Website HCIA Twitter Student Video Why Healthcare @ CBS? Watch our new video and hear why students think Columbia Business School is the perfect program for those with a passion for healthcare. Healthcare Features Healthcare Features February 8, 2021 The Importance of Team Agility in Uncertain Times: Karen Wish ’94, VP and CMO of Mount Sinai Hospital Group and Network During the COVID-19 pandemic, physicians and scientists quickly became the world’s most trusted sources of information on the pandemic. In this talk at the Future of Marketing Leadership Conference, learn how Karen Wish ’94 (VP and CMO, Mount Sinai Hospital Group and Network) led her team at Mount Sinai to get the truth and consistent messaging across to patients, staff, and the general public when they needed it most. October 20, 2020 Can Pharma Find Reputation Redemption? Experts discuss how the COVID-19 pandemic has given the pharmaceutical industry a unique moment to transform decades of public trust issues. May 14, 2020 How To Get COVID-19 Testing Right Professors Carri Chan, Assaf Zeevi, and Daniel Russo analyze how testing 300 people in New York City for COVID-19 antibodies could help stem a second wave of the pandemic. May 13, 2020 Harnessing Healthcare Data to Find Lifesaving Cures Sunny Grewal ’13 founded OMNY to help life sciences companies acquire the data they need to develop life-saving cures and let healthcare systems open new revenue streams. April 22, 2020 Himalaya Capital Founder and Columbia University Trustee Li Lu Donates $1.5 Million to Aid Healthcare Workers “We do what we are uniquely positioned to do best,” Li says April 8, 2020 Hospitals and Supply Chains in View of COVID-19 Health experts discuss ways to improve hospital management, the best tactics for resource allocation, and the drastic systemic changes occurring amidst the COVID-19 health crisis. April 1, 2020 Providing Mental Wellbeing From a Distance Mantra Health, co-founded by Matt Kennedy '17, is at the forefront of remote medicine. March 23, 2020 Hospital Operations Expert Carri Chan on Freeing Up Beds During the COVID-19 Crisis How hospitals are addressing capacity issues and how the public can help. March 23, 2020 The Value of a Vaccine A COVID-19 vaccine would be worth trillions. November 19, 2019 This Startup Wants to Save Lives by Reinventing Medical Imaging Butterfly's handheld ulstrasounds bring this diagnostic tool to every corner of the globe. News Healthcare News April 12, 2022 | Supply Chain Dive COVID-19 Tests at Times Have Been Notoriously Hard to Find. Here's Why. March 31, 2022 | CBS News Airlines Want to Drop COVID-19 Travel Precautions. Is Now the Right Time? February 22, 2022 | The New York Times To Fill Empty Retail Space, Landlords Tap Doctors and Dentists February 18, 2022 | Marketplace Radio WHO Plan Will Help Ramp Up COVID Vaccine Production in Africa January 13, 2022 | CBS News How Will I Be Reimbursed for Rapid COVID Tests? And Other FAQs January 13, 2022 | USA Today Supreme Court Blocks Biden COVID Mandate Requiring Vaccine, Testing at Work. Here’s What We Know. January 8, 2022 | The Financial Times America’s Covid Testing System Buckles under Weight of Omicron Surge January 7, 2022 | Reuters No Jab, No Job: Citigroup to Fire Unvaccinated Staff This Month - Memo December 24, 2021 | Marketplace Radio The U.S. Health Care System Isn’t Set up Great for COVID-19 Testing October 29, 2021 | USA Today As Biden Vaccine Mandates Loom, Protests for Personal Freedoms Swell. What Happens Next? Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top