Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Areas of Study Advertising Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Admissions B.A. in Advertising - Creative Specialization B.A. in Advertising - Digital Media Strategy Specialization B.A. in Advertising - Strategic Brand Management Specialization Minor in Advertising Minor in Graphic Design Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Schedule a Visit With consumers seeing millions of messages throughout each day, advertisers must use creativity, skill and strategy to make an impact on their audiences. The Temerlin Advertising Institute for Education and Research (TAI) trains students to search for unique solutions in advertising, preparing them for work in advertising agencies, media firms, corporate marketing departments, design studios and more. TAI is located in a top-five media market that affords many opportunities for industry experience through internships and guest lectures, industry field visits, directed study, and an annual lecture series. Students may also choose to study abroad, through advertising classes offered at SMU-in-London and other SMU-approved programs. Small classes ensure personal attention from the advertising professors, all of whom are prominent scholars and industry leaders. In-depth projects and internships prepare students for careers as account executives, account planners, media planners, art directors, copywriters and brand managers. The Temerlin Advertising Institute was endowed by the Dallas advertising community through a pledge to augment scholarships, faculty salaries and public programs that enrich student learning and practical experience in advertising. Established in 2001, it is one of the nation's first endowed advertising institutes. Major in Advertising The B.A. in Advertising allows students to major in advertising and specialize their knowledge in one of three areas: Creative Digital Media Strategy Strategic Brand Management Students must apply for admission to the major and a specialization simultaneously. Read more about the admissions process here. Minor in Advertising The minor in advertising offers the student a cogent overview of the social, economic, legal and marketing environments in which advertising functions. Courses offered in the minor are designed to satisfy the needs of the consumer of advertising messages, as well as those of a person who might choose advertising as a valuable adjunct to another career choice. View Minor in Advertising details Minor in Graphic Design The graphic design minor provides a basic understanding and development of skills necessary for message design across various media. Topics and skill sets include identity (logos, branding collateral material, packaging), digital (social, mobile, online media), publication (magazines, newspapers, books), and other areas of design. The minor is designed for students who wish to incorporate an interest in graphic design into their major coursework or to pursue further study in a variety of design disciplines. View Minor in Graphic Design details 27nNBc-Zb58 Video Why Temerlin? Willie Baronet, Stan Richards Professor in Creative Advertising and former advertising agency owner, discusses the advantages at TAI. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search