Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Tatiana Terry of Campbell Law School Wins the 2019 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition June 14, 2019 Tatiana Terry of Campbell Law School Wins the 2019 Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition Tatiana Terry of Campbell Law School makes a passionate appeal to the jury during the final round of Top Gun X. WACO - Tatiana Terry of Campbell University's Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law was declared the winner of "Top Gun X," Baylor Law's special tenth anniversary edition of the Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition. Terry persuaded an all-star jury of experienced trial attorneys and former Top Gun champions to return a verdict in her favor in the intense final round, narrowly beating out runner-up Craig Shirley of Samford University's Cumberland School of Law. In addition to bragging rights as 'Top Gun,' Terry takes home the grand prize of $10,000. Terry reviews a document with expert witness Professor Joe Donndelinger of Baylor University's School of Engineering. Presiding judge, the Honorable Barbara M.G. Lynn, Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, in the background. "This competition is tremendous… there's a lot of sacrifice that goes into this moment. I've been wishing it, hoping it, praying about it for two years," stated the 2019 Top Gun Tatiana Terry, who attended Baylor Law's Academy of the Advocate in St Andrews Scotland in 2018. "I've always envisioned myself as a trial lawyer and this competition is made for people like me." Celebrating its tenth year, Baylor Law's Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition is the most challenging invitation-only mock trial tournament in the country. The best advocates from the nation's top sixteen trial advocacy schools compete head-to-head in the winner-take-all tournament.As the host, Baylor Law School does not compete. As part of the special "Top Gun X," this year's tenth-year anniversary event, Baylor Law worked with Baylor University Museum Studies Graduate Students on "An Exhibit of Exhibits" - museum-quality displays of important facts, photos, and exhibits of each of the previous nine competitions. "We started Top Gun in 2010 to be an exceptional competition that uniquely challenges the most successful mock trial competitors in the country," said Gerald Powell, Master Teacher and The Abner V. McCall Professor of Evidence at Baylor Law. "Top Gun gives law student advocates a chance to not only compete against the very best and most talented of their peers," continued Powell. "But thanks to our great friends at Naman, Howell Smith & Lee, the Top Gun, the best advocate at the competition will also leave with a $10,000 prize." View Additional Photos of the Competition Here The Top Gun competition distinguishes itself from other mock trials with its innovative rules and challenging surprise changes and additions over the course of the competition. Unlike most mock trial competitions, participants cannot prepare for the case prior to the start of the competition. Upon arriving at Baylor Law, the advocates are given a brief video introduction, a case file, and only 24 hours to prepare both sides of the case before the first rounds begin. Case packets contain carefully prepared depositions, records, photographs, and videos. Witnesses are played by Baylor Law students, faculty, and friends, and the competitors have only a short period of time to prepare them for each round. The presiding judges in the semi-final round of the competition were Magistrate Judge Christine A. Nowak of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and Magistrate Judge Christopher H. Steger of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee. The presiding judge in the final round was the honorable Barbara M.G. Lynn, Chief Judge in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas. Product Liability - A Real World Situation This year's fictitious case, with facts created by faculty and staff at Baylor Law and faculty from Baylor University's School of Engineering, was titled SARAH GWYNETH DAY, Plaintiff v. AMERICAN TRIATHLON ASSOCIATION, INC. AND TEIXEIRA CYCLING CORPORATION, Defendants. Finalist Craig Shirley of Samford University's Cumberland School of Law with Professor of Law Laura Hernández, playing the role of Teixeira Cycling Corporation's CEO. Sarah Day, expertly played by Baylor Law's Dean Leah Teague, filed a products liability suit against Teixeira Cycling Corporation and American Triathlon Association, Inc. Ms. Day was a competitive triathlete. While competing in the Doris Miller Memorial Xtremis Triathlon in Waco, Texas, Day successfully completed the swimming and running portions. However, she was injured shortly after beginning the biking portion, the final portion of the triathlon. Day alleged that Teixeira defectively designed, manufactured, and sold the bike she used for the triathlon. Specifically, she alleged that the use of an open fork design on her bike was defective and that this defective design caused her to fall from the bike and sustain serious injuries. Teixeira asserted that Sarah Day's accident was caused by her own negligence and the negligent course design of the American Triathlon Association (ATA). ATA and Sarah Day settled out of court. In the final round, on Sunday, June 9th, Tatiana Terry of Campbell Law School represented the plaintiff, Sarah Day, and Craig Shirley of Cumberland Law represented the defendant, Teixeira Cycling Corp. Another unique aspect of the Top Gun Competition is the use of real-world partners and contributors in the case. In this year's fictitious case, Clinical Associate Professor at Baylor University's School of Engineering, and experienced mechanical engineer, Joe Donndelinger, utilized his extensive design experience to create a realistic engineering analysis of the design of the front fork of the bike in question. Access to the School of Engineering's 3D printers allowed Prof. Donndelinger to produce 3D printed versions of the front fork in question – and that of an 'improved' design – for use by advocates throughout the competition. Cycling experts from Bicycle World in Waco made appearances at Baylor Law as well – volunteering their time to inform the case file drafters and the competitors of the ins-and-outs of cycling and to discuss how the bikes in the case work. Bicycle World also lent Baylor Law several bikes for testing and provided a bike for the final round. The Top Gun X National Mock Trial Competition was underwritten by Naman, Howell, Smith & Lee, PLLC, and sponsored by Weinberg Wheeler Hudgins Gunn & Dial. Thank you to LitSoftware's TrialPad for their support during the competition. Top Gun X Champion and Recognized Advocates Champion Tatiana Terry, Campbell University's Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law Finalist Craig Shirley, Samford University's Cumberland School of Law Semifinalists Kyle Decamp, UCLA School of Law Imokhai Okolo, University of Akron School of Law Professionalism Award Winner Greg Dachko, Temple University Beasley School of Law Technology Award Winner Kian Khajooei, UCLA School of Law Top Gun X Final Round Jurors (Competition Judges) The jurors for each round of Top Gun are practicing trial lawyers and justices. During Top Gun they act as competition judges. The Jurors for the final round of Top Gun X were: • Roy Barrett (J.D. '69), Chairman of the Board at Naman Howell Smith & Lee • Sarah Chervinsky (Yale Law School '11), Associate at NFC Law, 2011 Top Gun Champion • Jerry Clements (J.D. '81), Chair Emeritus at Locke Lord LLP • Mark Mann (J.D. '81), Partner at MT2 Law Group • Collin Tierney (University of California Berkeley School of Law '14), Assistant Public Defender in Hennepin County, MN, 2014 Top Gun Champion • Ben Wallace (Yale Law School '16), U.S. Dept. of Justice Office of Legal Counsel, 2016 Top Gun Champion Top Gun X Livestream Expert Commentary The final round of Top Gun X was streamed live with expert commentary from some of the leading advocates and mock trial coaches in the country. A recording of the livestream with commentary can be viewed, here. Anchor: Liz Fraley (J.D. '88), Associate Professor of Law at Baylor Law, Principal of The Fraley Firm, PLLC. Professor Elizabeth (Liz) Lippy, Associate Director of Trial Advocacy, American University, Washington College of Law Spencer Pahlke, Director of Trial Competition Teams, University of California Berkeley School of Law Julia Metts, Director of Trial Programs, Stetson College of Law Sara Jacobson, Associate Professor and Director of Trial Advocacy Programs, Temple University Beasley School of Law Susan Poehls, Professor of Law and Director of Trial Advocacy, Loyola Law School – Los Angeles The Top Gun X National Mock Trial Competitors Taylor Arri – University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Law Brian Baloun – Loyola University Chicago School of Law Megi Belegu – Fordham University School of Law Greg Dachko – Temple University Beasley School of Law Kyle DeCamp – UCLA School of Law Ashley DiMuzio – Wake Forest University School of Law Abigail Hudson – Loyola Law School, Los Angeles Evan Larson – University of California, Berkeley School of Law Simone Leighty – University of the Pacific, McGeorge School of Law Savannah McDonald – American University Washington College of Law LaMark McGreen – Stetson University College of Law Imokhai Okolo – University of Akron School of Law Dennis Scanlon – Syracuse University College of Law Craig Shirley – Samford University Cumberland School of Law Vania Smith – Catholic University of America Columbus School of Law Tatiana Terry – Campbell University Norman Adrian Wiggins School of Law MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,500 living alumni. Accredited by the American Bar Association and a member of the Association of American Law Schools, Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. Baylor Law boasts among its notable alumni two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as among the best in the nation at No. 2. Baylor Law School also is ranked No. 48 in the magazine's 2020 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training" and No. 4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since its inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School