Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Safety Measures Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Campus Safety Measures In implementing UC’s Return to Campus plan, these safety protocols will remain in effect until further notice. The UC COVID Check app provides a simple way to report a positive COVID test or any COVID symptoms to UC's COVID Response Team. Students are required to report via the UC COVID Check App if they develop viral symptoms or test positive for COVID. See guidance and protocols related to indoor masking on campus. See guidance and protocols related to social distancing on campus. Reviews are required ahead of international travel. Faculty and staff at higher risk for serious complications from COVID-19 due to a health condition that rises to the level of disability under the ADAAA may request an accommodation. All students with questions related to COVID-19 and risk factors should contact University Health Services via COVIDHelp@uc.edu High-risk populations Faculty and staff Faculty and staff at higher risk for serious complications from COVID-19 due to a health condition that rises to the level of disability under the ADAAA may request an accommodation. Students Students at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 as defined by the CDC guidelines may be at greater risk if physically coming to campus and/or residing in UC Housing. Students at higher risk or students who are otherwise concerned about their medical risks related to COVID-19 should reach out to University Health Services (UHS) via COVIDHelp@uc.edu in order to obtain additional health information regarding reporting requirements and monitoring. For assistance with academic or housing accommodations, visit the Accessibility Resources web site or email at accessresources@uc.edu. Good health practices The same precautions that will protect you from the common cold and the flu will protect you from COVID-19: Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available. Avoid touching your mouth, nose, or eyes. Cover coughs/sneezes with your arm or a tissue. Avoid exposure to others who are sick. Stay home if you are ill (except to visit a health care professional) and avoid close contact with others. See CDC guidelines on when to quarantine. Get adequate sleep and eat well-balanced meals to ensure a healthy immune system. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces. We continue to closely monitor the guidelines from local, state and federal agencies. The university works closely with and maintains coordination with local and state departments of health. As always, the health and safety of our students, faculty, staff, patients and visitors is our top priority. We will continue to keep our community informed — and we encourage everyone to practice routine hygiene etiquette as this is the best way to prevent the spread of infection. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top