Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Microbiology (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Influenza! Plague! Ebola! Anthrax! You've seen them in the movies and on TV — microbes are everywhere. But did you also know that microbes helped in the Gulf oil spill? That one day your car may run on gas produced by microbes? That fungi produces antibiotics that may one day save your life? Microbiology majors take a closer look at all these issues and more. Are you interested in infectious disease? At Clemson, you can pursue a general microbiology degree or you can choose to do a major concentration in biomedicine. If you choose to follow the general microbiology curriculum, you'll take one class in each of these three areas — biomedicine, environmental, food and industrial microbiology. Microbiologists seek to describe and characterize organisms in structure, function and processes of reproduction, growth and death at cellular and molecular levels. They are also interested in the ecology of microbes and the interaction with higher-level organisms. FAST FACTS Clemson is home to a world-class advanced light imaging facility that supports education and research. Undergraduate research opportunities are available in medicine, biofuels, bioremediation and more. Our graduates go on to medical, dental and pharmacy school as well as graduate school for their Ph.D. We offer a concentration in biomedicine, which is great for students planning to pursue a career in the medical field. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Bachelor of Science in Microbiology: With a wide choice of electives, the microbiology curriculum allows you the flexibility to take courses for a minor in a different discipline, which will help you prepare for a career in your specific interest area. The general microbiology degree requires a course from a select list in each of the following areas: biomedicine, environmental, and food safety, industrial and technology microbiology. Bachelor of Science in Microbiology-Biomedicine Concentration: Suited for students planning postgraduate studies, especially in infectious disease. This concentration allows students to take more courses related to human health and disease. In addition, you'll be required to take additional biomedical courses that you'll choose from a predetermined list. Curriculum Microbiology, B.S. Microbiology: Biomedicine Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Chemistry Biochemistry Food Science Genetics Legal Studies Modern Languages Philosophy Psychology Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Outside the classroom, microbiology majors participate in various clubs, conduct independent research projects, gain experience in internship positions, and find time to study abroad. Research You'll have a chance to conduct research through a wide offering of Creative Inquiry teams. These student teams take on research under the guidance of faculty mentors and often present their findings at conferences or in publications.Learn More » Study Abroad Each year students travel to Costa Rica to work under the supervision of physicians and dentists. Students gain hands-on medical and/or dental experience and learn about tropical diseases and the country's health care system. Microscopy The Clemson Light Imaging Facility is a state-of-the-art light-imaging suite that houses advanced light microscopes equipment from Leica, Nikon and Zeiss.Learn More » Service Learning Gain teaching experience by serving as an undergraduate teaching assistant in laboratories offered by the Department of Biological Sciences. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS COSMIC Alpha Epsilon Delta Food Science and Human Nutrition Club Microbiology Society AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Associate Scientist Pfizer Technical Associate Milliken & Company Microbiologist S.C. Department of Health and Environmental Control Environmental Microbiologist Bausch & Lomb RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Neuroscience Johns Hopkins School of Medicine Pharm.D. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill MD Medical University of South Carolina J.D. University of South Carolina COMMON CAREER AREAS Research and Development Basic and Applied Quality Control Administration Grant Writing Health Care Medicine Dentistry Optometry Podiatry Pharmacy Veterinary Medicine Allied Health Occupational Therapy Physical Therapy Medical Technology Nuclear Medicine Organismal Biology Botany and Plant Sciences Zoology, Ecology and Wildlife Marine and Aquatic Systematic and Taxonomy Entomology Genetics Education Formal Classroom Teaching Informal Teaching and Outreach Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sharetta Bufford Recruiter 864-656-3296 Email Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Microbiology (B.S.) Animal and Veterinary Sciences (B.S.) Biochemistry (B.S.) Bioengineering (B.S.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Food Science and Human Nutrition (B.S.) Genetics (B.S.) Health Science (B.S.)