Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Management, BSBA Become a Multifaceted Leader Who Drives Success in Business Markets Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Business Department(s) Management 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Help Organizations and Teams Thrive in Today’s Complex Business World The Management, BSBA program combines theory and application, with a focus on problem solving, group projects and case analysis. If you possess strong quantitative skills, enjoy problem solving and embrace working with people, then this program is for you. A management degree covers a broad range of topics which gives you an opportunity to tailor your studies to your personal and professional goals. Your courses will prepare you for leadership roles in a variety of organizations, including large and small, public and private, for-profit and non-for-profit. The program also provides the required knowledge and skills needed to embark on your own entrepreneurial venture. You’ll gain first-hand experience in what it takes to be an effective manager and decision-maker, as well as affect organizational efficiency and effectiveness by considering the impact of environment, technology, administrative structure, information and human resources. Management majors also have the opportunity to earn either a Human Resources or Entrepreneurship Certificate as part of the bachelor’s degree (no additional credit hours required). Plus, UCF’s Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership helps students, recent alumni, faculty and staff become successful entrepreneurial leaders. Upon graduation, apply for management and leadership roles at different companies and organizations. Joining professional organizations and pursuing certifications in your respective area of interest will also keep you ahead of the competition. You may also consider earning your MBA to advance your career further and reach the highest levels of business management. Please note that the management degree is not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Highlights UCF was ranked as one of the Best Undergraduate Business Programs by U.S. News & World Report in 2021. The management program at UCF is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The job outlook for management occupations is projected to grow 5% through 2029. The average salary for a business management graduate is $66K. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Leadership Development Gain a foundation on the leadership development process and the impact leaders can have on individuals, groups and organizations. Strategic Management Assume a strategic view of organizations and integrate and apply material learned in your business courses to modern organizational problems and opportunities. Conflict Resolution and Negotiation Learn about conflict resolution and negotiation theories and processes applied to human resource management practices and other management activities in work organizations. Strategic Human Resource Management Get a complete, comprehensive review of the strategic importance of the essential human resource management concepts and techniques for any student majoring in Management. Organizations: Theory and Behavior Explore a micro/macro approach to the study of organizations by integrating organizational theory and organizational behavioral science concepts. Creativity and Entrepreneurship This course portrays entrepreneurship as a creative problem solving process emphasizing opportunity recognition, resourcefulness, and leadership that results in startup, social, government and corporate ventures. Project Management Foundations of project management in assorted organizations and industries. Covers the project environment, the project manager's role, and project phases from initiation to closing. View All Management Courses You’ll Take Management Skills You’ll Learn Demonstrate an acceptable level of management knowledge and skills, which includes management terminology, practices and policies. Understand ethical decision-making processes and social responsibility related to management situations. Utilize critical thinking skills by analyzing and evaluating management specific problems, including those related to interpersonal issues, and using the results to make appropriate recommendations. Apply teamwork processes and practices by working collaboratively to accomplish management related tasks. Career Opportunities Business Analyst Entrepreneur Project Manager Client Services Manager Business Consultant Operations Manager Human Resources Manager College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Bachelors Management (BSBA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The management major combines theory and application, with a focus on problem solving, group projects, and case analysis. The curriculum prepares students for leadership roles in a variety of organizations, including: large and small, public and private, for profit and non-for-profit. The program can also accommodate students who wish to embark on their own entrepreneurial ventures. Students majoring in management should possess strong quantitative skills, enjoy problem solving, and embrace working with people. Not eligible for a double degree with another College of Business Administration major. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students wanting to major in Management must meet admission requirements for the major. Any student receiving a business degree must complete a minimum of 30 of the 60 upper level business credit hours for their degree program in the UCF College of Business Administration. Additionally, 12 of the 30 credit hours completed at UCF must be from the department or school in which the student majors. For students seeking a double major within the College of Business, a maximum of 6 hours of Required Courses for the Major or Restricted Electives may count towards another business major. A maximum of 6 hours of Core Requirements or Restricted Electives may count towards another degree program or minor. Students in the Management major must maintain a 2.75 or higher cumulative Grade Point Average in all 3000 level or higher Management (MAN) and Entrepreneurship (ENT) courses taken at UCF. Students must also maintain a 2.0 or higher cumulative GPA in all College of Business courses taken at UCF. Failure to maintain the required GPAs will result in the student being placed on Lack of Progress in the major and/or College. If a student on Lack of Progress fails to achieve the minimum required GPA in the subsequent term of enrollment, the student will be dismissed from the Management major and/or College of Business. A student who is dismissed may seek consideration for readmittance into the College or major by submitting a letter indicating the reasons for academic difficulties and positive plans for achieving the required GPA. Readmission is not automatic or guaranteed and as an exception to College policy is rarely granted. Students must earn a "B" or higher in MAN 3025. In addition, only grades of "C" or higher transfer into the program and students must earn a minimum of "C" or higher in all business courses. This includes all courses under requirements Common Program Prerequisites (CPP), Core Requirements: Basic Level, Core Requirements: Advanced Level (Primary Core and Secondary Core), Required Courses for Major, Restricted Electives and Capstone Requirements below. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 Total Credits Complete all of the following Primary Core Complete the following: ACG3173 - Accounting for Decision-Makers (3) QMB3200 - Quantitative Business Tools II (3) FIN3403 - Business Finance (3) MAN3025 - Management of Organizations (3) MAR3023 - Marketing (3) Secondary Core Complete the following: GEB3006 - Introduction to Career Development and Financial Plannings (3) GEB3005 - Career Search Strategy (1) BUL3130 - Legal and Ethical Environment of Business (3) MAR3203 - Supply Chain and Operations Management (3) GEB4223 - Business Interviewing Techniques (1) GEB4004 - Executing Your Career Plan (1) QMB3602 - Business Research for Decision Making (3) Required Courses for Major 18 Total Credits Complete the following: MAN4143 - Leadership Development (3) MAN4240 - Organizations: Theory and Behavior (3) MAN4441 - Conflict Resolution and Negotiation (3) ENT3613 - Creativity and Entrepreneurship (3) MAN3301 - Strategic Human Resource Management (3) MAN4583 - Project Management (3) Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Select either Entrepreneurship Certificate or Human Resources Certificate for a total of 9 credit hours, or 9 credit hours of any ENT/MAN prefix course. Please note, will not earn Human Resources or Entrepreneurship Certificate. Entrepreneurship Certificate (9 Credit Hours) Complete the following: ENT 4013 - New Venture Design Credit Hours: 3 ENT 4014 - New Venture Implementation Credit Hours: 3 Select one of the following sequences of courses: ENT 4183 - Technological Entrepreneurship Credit Hours: 3 ENT 4503 - Social Entrepreneurship Credit Hours: 3 ENT 4942 - Entrepreneurial Internship Credit Hours: 3 Human Resources Certificate (9 Credit Hours) Complete the following: MAN 4320 - Human Resources Recruitment and Selection Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4330 - Compensation Administration Credit Hours: 3 Select one of the following sequences of courses: MAN 4350 - Performance Management Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4329 - Business Analytics in Human Resource Management Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4701 - Business Ethics and Society Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4600 - International Management Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4941 - Management Internship Credit Hours: 3 Select Three: (9 Credit Hours) Minimum of 3 courses required: GEB 4435 - Moral Foundations of Business Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4209 - Designing Dynamic Organizations Credit Hours: 3 MAN 3301 - Strategic Human Resource Management Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4320 - Human Resources Recruitment and Selection Credit Hours: 3 MAN 4329 - Business Analytics in Human Resource Management Credit Hours: 3 Any MAN or ENT course Credit Hours: 3 Capstone Requirement 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MAN4720 - Strategic Management (3) Admitted to a Business major, senior standing, and completion of MAN 3025, MAR 3023, FIN 3403, QMB 3200, and ACG 3173 or ACG 3131 are required to register for MAN 4720. Grand Total Credits: 60 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida