Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Bookstore> Purchase of Books - Version 1 Purchase of Books Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG07.10.03 Title Purchase of Books Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Bookstore Authority Chancellor History Updated Regulation combined from material removed from Faculty Manual and Business Manual; Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, March 25, 2013. Contact Director of ECU Dowdy Student Stores, (252) 328-6731. Store email:studentstores@ecu.edu Related Policies Also relates to: Acquiring Publishers Complimentary Textbook Copies Additional References Student Store website 1. Purpose: The purpose of this regulation is to regulate the purchasing of books by faculty and university departments. 1.1. It is University requirement for faculty and departments to purchase textbooks and related books through Dowdy Student Stores. Dowdy Student Stores receives special dealer prices from most major publishing houses. (Note: This regulation does not apply to desk copies. See PRR #___ Acquiring a Publisher Complimentary Textbook.) 1.2. Should Dowdy Student Stores be unable to procure a specific textbook or book; or relinquish first right of refusal, faculty member or department must follow appropriate purchasing guidelines established through ECU Materials Management. 1.3. Books purchased with department funds are the property of the University and, thus, must be retained in departmental libraries; 1.4. Personal desk copies shall not be purchased with University funds. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier