Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Gun violence is a public health crisis Our Experts Respond to Mass Shootings >> News All News May 26 Our Experts Help Explain the Monkeypox Outbreak May 24 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin Chowkwanyun May 19 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic Leadership The Mailman Difference Learn more about our School and what makes us special. Request more information DISCOVERY & IMPACT We advance research and solutions to improve health for all. Explore our work to address COVID-19 Seeking Answers on Gun Violence Epidemiology chair Charles Branas weighed-in on gun violence, including what research says about where it happens and how to stop it. State Gun Laws May Help Curb Violence Across State Lines Mailman researchers found that strong state firearm laws are associated with fewer firearm homicides. Research Supports Tighter Gun Laws to Reduce Mass Shooting Violence U.S. states with more restrictive gun laws experience mass shootings at a significantly lower rate than states with more permissive gun laws. New Gun Subculture Emerges Around Defense of Second Amendment A Second Amendment-activism-oriented culture has grown in states that have strengthened their gun laws to the greatest degree. About Us Founded 1922 as the DeLamar Institute of Public Health Ranked # 4 among national Public Health Schools More than 16,000 graduates worldwide in our alumni community After graduation 97 % of students are employed or continuing studies Our Community Keep up with our inspiring students and alumni. My Friends and I Started a Campaign to Communicate Facts on the Pandemic. Here’s What I Learned. Tahmid Hasib Khan saw an opportunity to bridge the gap in Bangladesh with a public health campaign that delivered critically important news about COVID-19. The ROI of Storytelling in Healthcare Management Beyond using data to drive positive health outcomes, what can public health practitioners do to truly help those in need? Varna Kodoth believes the answer lies in storytelling. Events All Events June 1 episummer@columbia 12:00 pm 11:45 pm June 6 Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Online 10:00 am 5:00 pm June 9 PI Crash Course Online 10:00 am 6:00 pm FORWARD Taking action to become an anti-racist institution. Read more Join the Conversation Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers