Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ SMU Sexual Harassment Report Options for reporting sexual harassment Students can choose to report sexual harassment to police and to SMU. Students also can choose to report either to police or to SMU, or can choose not to report. The SMU process and the criminal process are independent of each other and can be pursued at the same time. To report to police and pursue criminal charges Students can report sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking to the police and pursue a criminal process. To reach SMU Police, call 214-768-3333 or pick up a blue-light phone on campus at any time of day or night. Those who wish to anonymously provide information regarding suspicious or criminal activity to SMU Police may call 214-768-2TIP (2847) or submit information online at smu.edu/2TIP. The form may be submitted anonymously or with a name and contact information. Learn more about reporting to police and pursuing criminal charges. To report to SMU and pursue an internal grievance process Students can report all forms of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, to SMU’s Title IX Coordinator and can pursue an SMU internal grievance process. To reach the SMU Title IX Coordinator, call 214-768-3601 or email accessequity@smu.edu. To file a complaint of Title IX sexual harassment including all forms of sexual harassment and sexual violence, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Complaint Form. To make a third-party report of Title IX sexual harassment, please complete the Title IX Sexual Harassment Third-Party Report Form. The form can be emailed to accessequity@smu.edu; submitted in Perkins Administration Building, Room 204; or mailed to the SMU Title IX Coordinator, P.O. Box 750200, Dallas, TX 75275-0200. Learn more about reporting to SMU's Title IX Coordinator and pursuing an internal grievance process. Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share