By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Graduate International Equivalence of U.S. Degree More from this Section Requirements Funding Equivalence of a U.S. Bachelor’s Degree As an applicant to a Syracuse graduate program, you’ll need to provide official documentation of having earned at least a U.S. bachelor’s degree (or its equivalent) in another country. Some Syracuse programs require a master’s degree, and this must be officially documented before enrollment as well. Students interested in pursuing a doctoral degree are required by some programs to demonstrate a minimum of three years of study beyond the B.S. degree. It’s best to check what documents you’ll need with the staff in your individual program of interest . In all cases, you must have graduated from a college or university that is recognized by the national educational authorities of that country. You may also use World Education Services (WES) to verify that your degree is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree. A WES credential evaluation makes it easier for admissions officers to understand your degrees, courses, and grades in U.S. terms. General Equivalents to a U.S. Bachelor's Degree (by Country/Region) Canada A three-year bachelor’s degree from Quebec or a four-year bachelor’s degree from the other provinces Latin America A university degree requiring four years of study United Kingdom and Countries Following the British Pattern A bachelor’s degree with honors France and Countries Following the French Pattern A licence if earned under the terms of the Bologna Declaration, otherwise a degree or diploma requiring four years of study after the baccalaureate, usually the Maitrise Germany A Bakkalaureus degree if earned under the terms of the Bologna Declaration, otherwise completion of the diploma Other European Countries A university degree requiring a minimum of three years of study, if earned under the terms of the Bologna Declaration, otherwise a university degree requiring a minimum of four years of study India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal A bachelor’s degree in engineering/technology or a master’s degree in any other field Other Asian Countries A university degree requiring four years of study Next Funding Requirements Related Pages Connect with Us Contact Graduate Admissions with your general questions or contact the specific school or college with questions regarding your program of interest. Request More Information Tell us a little about yourself and we’ll provide you with more information about attending Syracuse University. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy