Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > Student Life Commencement Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles From the School of Engineering Class Day celebration to the University-wide commencement ceremony where your degree is conferred, Commencement Week ceremonies are a special part of your Columbia Engineering experience. The music and procession. The speeches. The receptions and festivities. All are elements of a venerable tradition that pays tribute to your outstanding efforts in earning your degree. We look forward to recognizing this important milestone in your life and celebrating with you, your friends, and family. Class Day Columbia Engineering Class Day celebrates and acknowledges your hard work and academic achievement. Join your classmates on South Lawn, and cheer on your peers as you receive your class pin and hear from student leaders, respected faculty and an inspiring alumni speaker. Our beautiful campus makes an excellent backdrop for photos with family and friends to commemorate your time at Columbia University. Commencement University-wide commencement is the ceremony when your degree is officially conferred. Join all graduating students in academic regalia to hear from the Columbia President Lee Bollinger, hear from those who receive honorary degrees, and watch as awards are presented to outstanding faculty. As the Columbia University campus transforms into a sea of blue, you’ll participate in a time-honored tradition and take your place as a proud Columbia alum. GradZone From how to order your cap and gown to registering for guests and learning when and where to show up, everything you need to know about Columbia Engineering graduation is available online at GradZone. Go to Gradzone Commencement 2022 Class Day for Columbia Engineering: Monday, May 16, 2022, at 12:15 p.m. Read more Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebrations We are thrilled to announce a combined Columbia Engineering celebration to recognize the graduates of 2020 and 2021! This event will be held on Thursday, May 19, from 12:30-3:00 p.m. on the South Lawns of the Morningside campus (untented; rain or shine). This will follow the University ceremony for all 2021 and 2020 graduates earlier in the day, scheduled for 9:00–10:30 a.m. on the Morningside campus. More Information 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact