Skip to main content Skip to main content Quick Links Canvas Email my.SMU Box HPC Canvas Email My.SMU Box HPC Skip to main content Need help? Follow Us Follow Us Blog Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content OIT Help Help AV Design/Installation Event Services Classroom Technology OIT Knowledge Base IT Training Web Support Instructional Technology Instructional Technology Academic Technology's Instructional & Teaching Technology Guides Academic Technologies Training Academic Research Academic Technology Service Staff Additional Support Academic Technology Governance Council Classroom Technology Research Research Data Science Support Internet of Things Instructional Technology People Academic Technology Governance Council Other Research Tools Security Security About Our Program Reporting Security Incidents Digital Rights Management IT Procedures Passwords Policies Research Security Security Resouces Security Awareness Security Services Governance & Projects Governance & Projects Proposal Development & Review IT Governance Approval IT Governance Councils IT Governance Schedules IT Project Management Current IT Projects Project Resources Have an Idea for a Project? Services Services Accounts and Access Business Applications Business Intelligence & Reporting Communication and Collaboration Computer Labs Consulting and Development CylancePROTECT Data Science Computers and Printers Email and Calendaring ManeFrame II Inventory and Software Management High Performance Computing MATLAB & Simulink Networks and Servers Security STABLE Support and Training Teaching and Learning Web Development and Hosting Stay Informed Stay Informed Metrics IT Connect blog Change Management Planned Outages OIT on Twitter Technology News Archive Quick Links Quick Links About Us Account Activations Apps.SMU Blogs Box Canvas LMS Changes and Outages (Planned) Digital Signage SMU365 (Sharepoint Online) IT Training Mailing Lists (Lyris) my.SMU Open a Support Ticket Password Reset Tool Qualtrics STABLE Technology Purchases VPN Webmail Wiki A Z Service Index ☰ Office of Information Technology Office of Information Technology Services Office 365 Microsoft 365 Formerly Office 365 Sign In Microsoft 365 is a line of Microsoft services which adds to and includes the Microsoft Office product line. Getting Started Accessing Microsoft 365 Obtaining the Microsoft 365 software Open a web browser on the device that you wish to install Office Click Sign In Enter your SMU email address using the @smu.edu format. For example cuser@smu.edu You will automatically be redirected to the SMU Microsoft 365 login page Enter your SMU ID number and password Click Sign In Select Install Office in the top right corner Follow on-screen prompts If you are prompted at anytime during the installation process to enter a license key or sign in using an existing Microsoft or Office 365 account, log in using your SMU e-mail address and SMU password. ** Students will retain access to OneDrive for a minimum of 365 days after they leave the University. After that, students have the option to purchase the subscription for that service through Microsoft. Availability of Microsoft 365 by Role Availability of Microsoft 365 by Role Microsoft 365 is a suite of online tools and services provided by Microsoft, including Microsoft 365 Apps. Microsoft 365 Apps is a version of Office that's available through our Microsoft 365 plan. It includes the applications that you're familiar with, including Access, Excel, OneDrive, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, Skype for Business, Teams, and Word. You can use these applications to connect with Microsoft 365 services such as SharePoint Online, Exchange Online, and Skype for Business Online. Microsoft 365 Apps are not available to all members of the SMU community. Please use the table below to verify your eligibility. License Exchange Online OneDrive * Office Online Microsoft 365 Apps Power BI Active Students Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Admitted Students Yes N/A N/A N/A Yes Aramark N/A Yes Yes N/A Yes Contractors N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Employees N/A Yes Yes Yes Yes Former Students Yes N/A N/A N/A N/A Instructor Sponsored N/A Yes Yes N/A Yes Kelly Services N/A Yes Yes N/A N/A Matriculated Students Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Retirees N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A * Please Note: Students will retain access to OneDrive for a minimum of 365 days after they leave the University. After that, students have the option to purchase a subscription for that service through Microsoft. Office Online Office Online Office Online provides browser-based, online versions of the Office applications. You can create Word, Excel, and PowerPoint files from any device using just a web browser, though some functions are only available using the full application suite. Using the online app, you can quickly switch to the desktop version with just one click. If your device doesn't have the Office applications installed, you can still create and edit files using the online applications. To use Office Online, sign in to your Microsoft 365 account. Then click the desired service on the top right corner of the menu bar. Microsoft 365 Apps Microsoft 365 Apps Microsoft 365 Apps, formerly Office 365 ProPlus, is a full version of Office. It includes the applications you're familiar with, including Access, Excel, OneDrive, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, Skype for Business, Teams, and Word. You can use these applications to connect with Microsoft 365 services such as SharePoint Online. Microsoft 365 Apps is not a web-based version of Office—It runs locally on your computer, and you don't need to be connected to the internet all the time to use it. Microsoft 365 Apps allows for the installation on up to 10 devices. Students are licensed for Microsoft 365 Apps as soon as they are matriculated and remain licensed as long as they are active students. Following graduation or withdrawal from the University, the license will be removed, converting the applications to read-only mode. Former students will have the option to purchase licensing directly through Microsoft to restore functionality. The applications are available for various devices, including smartphones, tablets, and computers running macOS and Windows operating systems. Microsoft 365 Apps Introduction Microsoft 365 Apps, formerly Office 365 ProPlus, is the most productive and most secure Office experience for enterprises, allowing your teams to work together seamlessly from anywhere, anytime. Documentation and Training Documentation OIT Knowledge Base for Microsoft 365 Microsoft 365 help & learning Training Microsoft 365 basics video training Getting started with Office 365 and Windows (Microsoft Learning Path) Microsoft 365 Alumni Contractors Faculty Researchers Staff Students Temporary Staff Need Help? 214-768-HELP help@smu.edu smu.edu/itchat help.smu.edu Check Service Status Related Services Box OneDrive SMU 365 Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share