Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Give Publications Contact Us Search for: Search C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health About Us Meet the Team Jobs Our Work Research Programs 2021 Annual Report News and Events News Events The Climate Optimist Educational Programs Patient-Centered Climate Resilient Clinics Climate shocks, in the form of more intense heatwaves, wildfires, hurricanes and downpours, disrupt healthcare delivery through destroyed infrastructure, power outages, and interrupted supply chains. The primary response to these risks has been to strengthen buildings and install backup power generators and flood barriers. Fortifying facilities can promote resilience and maintain operations around extreme events, but it can miss one important part of delivering care: the people who need it. When climate shocks occur, people whose health is most at risk may never make it to a healthcare facility or a big urban hospital where most investments have been made. Our program puts patients at the center of climate resilience. We are working with frontline health clinics that serve predominantly low-wealth people who often have limited access to care to safeguard health. When disasters strike, these clinics often serve as a safety net, stepping up to provide whatever is needed in their communities. Our program creates a pathway to reach frontline communities in the right way at the right time to do everything possible to prevent foreseeable harms from the climate crisis. Climate Health Equity for Community Clinics Program Working with providers and staff at over 100 frontline health clinics, our program with Americares will focus on patients and the clinics that serve them in communities where climate change disproportionately impacts the health of vulnerable communities. We are partnering with providers and staff to design tailored interventions that meet their needs and their patients’ needs given resource constraints and limited time, to promote health equity and keep people safe before disasters strike. Learn more. Climate Resilience Toolkit We are developing a first- of- its- kind toolkit for safety-net health clinics based on our groundbreaking survey with Americares of over 450 clinic staff from 47 U.S. states and territories. The toolkit will provide resources for addressing risks to frontline communities related to extreme heat, wildfires, hurricanes, droughts and floods. Guided by input from clinic staff, it will include educational materials in several formats and languages, as well as extreme weather screening and alert protocols for staff, providers and patients. Learn more. An Innovative Health-Based Heat Ranking System to Protect Patients Most at Risk We are working with The National Association of Community Health Centers and the Adrienne Arsht-Rockefeller Foundation Resilience Center to pilot the use of a novel health-based heat ranking system with Federally Qualified Health Centers. This system carries the potential to enable interventions targeted to at-risk individuals based on health-based temperature thresholds. Project Team Dr. Aaron Bernstein, Interim Director, Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Liz Purchia, Communications Director Anna Miller, Senior Communications Coordinator 401 Park Drive 4th Fl. West, Suite 415 Boston, MA 02215 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Directions Subscribe to The Climate Optimist for stories of climate hope and action. Submit Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College Email * What area of work are you in? * Select list(s) to subscribe toNewsletter Example: Yes, I would like to receive emails from C-CHANGE | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. (You can unsubscribe anytime) Constant Contact Use. Please leave this field blank. By submitting this form, you are consenting to receive marketing emails from: Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment (Harvard Chan C-CHANGE), The Landmark Center, Boston, MA, 02215, http://hsph.harvard.edu/c-change/. You can revoke your consent to receive emails at any time by using the SafeUnsubscribe® link, found at the bottom of every email. Emails are serviced by Constant Contact