Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > About Us > History Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications 100 Years of Excellence: A CDM Timeline 1898 William J. Gies, PhD, Joins Columbia University William J. Gies, PhD, the future guiding light for the Columbia University Dental School, joins the Columbia University faculty. He is 26 years old. At Columbia, his research on the causes of dental caries leads him to meet leading dental practitioners in New York, who he will work with to found the Columbia University Dental School. 1916 Founding Document is Prepared Columbia University publishes a proposal for the establishment of a dental school, submitted by a group of prominent New York dentists, physicians, and scientists. "A Dental School on University Lines" sets forth the enduring principles that general health and oral health are closely related and that the school of dentistry should have close ties with the medical school. 1917 Columbia University Dental School is Established College of Physicians & Surgeons Columbia University trustees establish the Columbia University Dental School retroactively to September 17, 1916. The school is co-located with the College of Physicians and Surgeons on 59th Street. Two students enroll. Later that year the New York Post-graduate School of Dentistry and the New York School of Dental Hygiene are merged into the dental school. 1919 Dental School Entry Requirements Change Henriette Ofner The Columbia University Dental School becomes the first dental school in the nation to require two years of prerequisite college preparation as an entry requirement. This requirement affects enrollment of women in particular, because few women attend college at this time. 1919 William J. Gies, PhD, Establishes the Journal of Dental Research The journal enhances the research mission of dental schools across the nation. 1920 Anna Hughes, DMD, Becomes Director of Dental Hygiene Document from 1920 by Dr. Hughes Dr. Hughes is a champion of preventive dentistry: "The value of a clean mouth as a vital factor in maintaining a healthy body is now universally recognized, and as a result regular and thorough prophylactic treatments have become of constantly increasing importance..." 1922 First DDS Degree Awarded Joseph Schroff, MD, DDS Joseph Schroff becomes the first recipient of a Columbia DDS degree. He has also earned an MD degree from the College of Physicians and Surgeons. He goes on to serve on the dental school faculty for many years. 1922 American Association of Dental Schools is Formed William J. Gies, PhD, proposes the formation of the American Association of Dental Schools by bringing together several separate entities. It endures as the voice of dental education and is now known as the American Dental Education Association (ADEA), with a foundation named for William J. Gies, PhD. 1923 School Merges With the College of Dental and Oral Surgery of New York Archive photo of faculty in 1923 The Columbia University Dental School changes its name to the School of Dental and Oral Surgery (SDOS) as a result of a merger with the College of Dental and Oral Surgery of New York (established 1892). The two buildings the College occupies on East 34th and 35th Street become Columbia University property. Students take basic science classes in the morning on 59th Street and then walk down to 34th and 35th Street for dental technique classes. 1926 William J. Gies, PhD, Publishes Landmark Report Dental Education in the United States and Canada is published by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. It contains 250 pages of text and more than 400 pages of appendices, including descriptions and evaluations of existing dental schools, each of which Dr. Gies visited during 5 years of research. He uses the Columbia school as the model for the future of all dental schools.Dental Education in the United States and Canada remains a seminal piece of research within dentistry. 1927 Alfred Owre, DMD, MD, Becomes Dean Dr. Owre is recruited from the University of Minnesota. He brings 17 faculty members from Minnesota to join him at Columbia. Dr. Owre's vision of rigorous education fits in well with the School of Dental and Oral Surgery, but many of his ideas regarding the structure of dentistry as a profession are considered controversial. Resistance to his ideas grows, leading to a leave of absence in 1933. 1927 Seymour Lipton Graduates Seymour Lipton goes on to become a leading American abstract sculptor. His work is represented by many New York galleries and he receives major corporate commissions. His sculptures are exhibited in museums, including the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. 1928 The School of Dental and Oral Surgery Moves to 168th Street SDOS moves into the top three floors of the Vanderbilt Clinic Building on 168th Street. The College of Physicians and Surgeons and the Presbyterian Hospital also move uptown, forming the first complete medical center in the country. 1930 Herbert Ferber Graduates Herbert Ferber sculpture Herbert Ferber, known in the dental world as Dr. Herbert Silvers, goes on to become a world renowned abstract expressionist sculptor. He is credited with creating one of the first environmental sculptures, in 1960, that viewers experience by walking through it. His work is exhibited in many museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum. In the early 1970's, the American Dental Association commissions a sculpture for its headquarters, which it later donates to the City of Chicago. 1933 Willard Rappleye, MD, Becomes Dean Dr. Rappleye, Dean of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, takes on the additional role of Dean of the dental school. He serves as Dean of both schools for the next 25 years. Dr. Rappleye appoints Dr. Arthur T. Rowe, the head of Prosthetics, as Associate Dean to carry out day-to-day operations. He successively appoints Houghton Holiday, Bion East, Maurice Hickey, and Gilbert Smith (who later becomes dean) as associate deans throughout his tenure. 1935 2 Faculty Members Are Murdered Columbia Spectator frontage with article about the murder committed by Victor Koussow Victor Koussow, a quarrelsome school laboratory technician, fatally shoots Associate Dean Arthur Rowe and Dr. Paul Wiberg, and injures one other faculty member. He commits suicide as police arrive at the Medical Center. 1945 School Formally Merges Into the Faculty of Medicine Photo of the merger signing in 1945 The school becomes part of the Faculty of Medicine. This leads to controversy with the Council on Dental Education, the accrediting agency. 1947 First Postdoctoral Candidates Graduate Clinic shot from 1947 SDOS issues postdoctoral certificates in four specialty areas: oral surgery, general dentistry, periodontics (one of the first such programs in the U.S.), and orthodontics, a program that dates back to 1917. 1947 Frances Stoll, RDH, BS, Becomes Director of Dental Hygiene The Bachelor of Science degree is approved by the University for the graduates of the dental hygiene program. 1950 Pedodontics Postdoctoral Specialty Program is Established Pediatric teaching facilities from the 1950's Now called Pediatric Dentistry, the postdoctoral Pedodontics program is established by Ewing Cleveland McBeath, DDS, MD. It is one of the earliest such programs in the world. 1953 Master of Science in Dental Hygiene Degree is Approved by the University A dental hygiene class from the 1940's Frances Stoll, Director of the Dental Hygiene program, proposes and the University approves, the Master of Science in Dental Hygiene program for graduates who wish to pursue a career in academia. 1959 SDOS Separates From the Faculty of Medicine Gilbert Smith, DDS The University approves a separate faculty, the Faculty of Dental and Oral Surgery. The associate dean’s position under the former arrangement is restored to dean. Gilbert Smith becomes the Dean of SDOS. 1965 Patricia McLean, RDH, MA, Becomes Director of the Dental Hygiene Program She serves for 10 years and retires as an assistant dean. 1968 Melvin Moss, DDS, PhD, Becomes Dean A professor in the department of anatomy, he recruits new full time faculty and strengthens the research mission of the school. 1970 New DDS Curriculum is Introduced Shot of a teaching clinic in 1970 The DDS curriculum is revised to include clinic observation in the second year, small group modes of instruction, and electives in the fourth year. Coursework and research in periodontics, growth and development, and prevention is strengthened through new faculty appointments. 1973 Edward Zegarelli, DDS, Becomes Dean Dr. Zegarelli, an eminent oral pathologist and SDOS graduate in 1941, serves as Dean from 1973 until he retires in 1978. By the time he retires, he will have spent his entire professional career on the faculty of SDOS. 1977 Vanderbilt Clinic is Renovated Interior of clinic renovation from the 1970 SDOS facilities on Vanderbilt Clinic floors 7, 8, and 9 undergo a total renovation with modern operatories and new equipment. 1977 Dona Wayman, BS, MS, EdD, Becomes Director of the Dental Hygiene Program Dr. Wayman comes to the position after completing 3 degrees at Columbia, including a doctorate in education in conjunction with Teachers College. 1978 Allan J. Formicola, DDS, MS, Becomes Dean Dr. Formicola is the first dean in 50 years to be appointed from outside the faculty. He has previously served as Acting Dean at the New Jersey Dental School and on the faculties of the University of Alabama and Georgetown University. He serves as Dean of SDOS for 23 years. 1982 MD-Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Program is Established Steven Roser, DMD, MD (left) Steven Roser, DMD, MD (left in photo) is appointed director of the Division of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery. He establishes the joint MD-Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery program. It is the 7th such program in the nation and is established between the SDOS, the College of Physicians and Surgeons, and the Presbyterian Hospital. 1982 Dental Hygiene Program Closes Dental Hygiene 1981 class photo As community colleges across the country establish 2-year dental hygiene programs, enrollment of students in university programs drops precipitously. Columbia decides to close its program. 1985 Irwin Mandel, DDS, is Awarded the ADA Gold Medal For Research Excellence Dr. Mandel, Professor of Dentistry and Associate Dean for Research, is the first person to receive this American Dental Association award. He is known for establishing the first Division of Preventive Dentistry at Columbia, and he is world-renowned for his research on saliva. 1986 SDOS Receives $1 Million Grant An Article clipping discussing the grant award from 1986 The Pew Charitable Trusts awards SDOS $1 million to implement far-reaching changes in curriculum. Students gain opportunities for electives and joint degrees with School of Public Health and the School of Business. 1988 Harlem Hospital-SDOS Special Postdoctoral Residency Program is Established Exterior shot of the Harlem Hospital The program is established to educate underrepresented minority residents in the dental specialties. 23 residents from Harlem Hospital complete specialty programs in fields such as periodontics, endodontics, orthodontics and pediatric dentistry. Graduates become faculty members at Columbia, staff at Harlem Hospital, and practitioners in their specialty fields. 1993 Alumna Publishes Best Selling Book, Having Our Say Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, a graduate of SDOS in 1923, publishes a book of life stories with her sister Sarah (Sadie) Delany, a graduate of Teachers College. The book recounts stories from the lives of these two extraordinary African-American women who grew up in post-Reconstruction South and lived in New York City during the Harlem Renaissance. The book includes Bessie's stories of breaking barriers to become a dentist. 1995 Community DentCare is Launched DentCare mobile Dental Service van SDOS establishes the Community DentCare network to provide care in public schools and Head Start centers. A grant of $1 million is provided by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation to assist the effort. 1998 Northern Manhattan Community Voices Collaborative is Established Book cover of mobilizing the community for better health SDOS is funded with a $4.5 million grant by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation to establish the Northern Manhattan Community Voices Collaborative, forming a collaborative of 35 community-based organizations and the Columbia University Medical Center to build health promotion and disease prevention programs. 2000 SDOS becomes National Program Office for $26 Million Project SDOS is selected by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation as the National Program Office for the Pipeline, Profession & Practice: Community-Based Dental Education demonstration project, the largest foundation initiative in dentistry ever funded. The W.K. Kellogg Foundation and the California Endowment also provide funds for this project. The ten-year project funds 23 dental schools to implement programs for students to study and treat patients in community clinics and encourages schools to increase underrepresented minority student applications and enrollment. 2001 Ira Lamster, DMD, MMSc, Becomes Dean Formerly Vice Dean of SDOS and Director of the Division of Periodontics, Dr. Lamster serves as dean from 2001 to 2013. Dr. Lamster proposes to change the name of the school from the School of Dental and Oral Surgery (SDOS) to the College of Dental Medicine (CDM) to reflect changes in the way dentistry is practiced. 2004 ElderSmile Program is Launched SDOS establishes the ElderSmile program to bring attention to the oral health needs of the elderly. Care is provided at the Washington Houses for the Elderly and the Isabella Geriatric Center. 2006 SDOS Becomes the College of Dental Medicine The Board of Trustees approves the school's name change to the College of Dental Medicine. The new name better reflects its comprehensive biomedical approach in its missions. 2009 School receives prestigious ADEA Gies Award The College of Dental Medicine receives the American Dental Education Association William J. Gies Foundation award for Outstanding Vision by an Academic Dental Institution. 2009 Dental Research Complex Constructed A major new research complex is constructed on the 12th Floor of the Vanderbilt Clinic building, permitting the dental school to recruit new research faculty and expand its research program. 2010 DDS-MA Program With Teachers College is Established Roseanna Graham, DDS, becomes the first graduate of this dual degree program. She goes on to earn a PhD in science education, also a first. Dr. Graham joins the College of Dental Medicine faculty full time. 2013 Christian Stohler, DMD, DrMedDent, Becomes Dean Dr. Stohler comes from the University of Maryland School of Dentistry, where he served as Dean for 10 years before arriving at Columbia. Dean Stohler oversees the expansion of the dental school's clinic space onto the Vanderbilt Clinic building's 5th floor, increasing clinic space by 25%. 2014 School Receives Its Second William J. Gies Foundation Award Picture from a school clinic opening in 2014 The College of Dental Medicine is awarded a second American Dental Education Gies Foundation Award for Outstanding Achievement by an Academic Dental Institution for its Community DentCare program. (Photo shows opening of a public school clinic site.) 2014 School Receives HEED Award Dr. Dennis Mitchell The College of Dental Medicine is awarded a Higher Education Excellence in Diversity Award (HEED) for outstanding commitment to diversity and inclusion. It is the first dental school in the nation to win such an award. It is Dr. Dennis Mitchell who established the Office of Diversity Affairs at the College of Dental Medicine, and he was appointed the Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion for Columbia University. 2016 School Celebrates Its 100th Anniversary The College of Dental Medicine celebrates its first 100 years. A comprehensive history book is written by Allan J. Formicola, Dean Emeritus, and is published by Columbia University Press. The College anticipates moving forward in an electronic age. 2017 Center For Precision Dental Medicine is Officially Dedicated Columbia Center for Precision Dental Medicine The College of Dental Medicine welcomes 150 donors, alumni, local leaders, and other members of the community on December 5 to dedicate the Center for Precision Dental Medicine, a new addition to the college designed to help transform the field of dentistry.The new dental education and patient care suite has 48 new dental operatories outfitted with first-of-its-kind technology developed specifically for Columbia’s vision of stretching the boundaries of dentistry as it is practiced and taught. Read more Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top