Jump to Navigation Penn Calendar Penn A-Z School of Arts & Sciences University of Pennsylvania Italian Studies Search this site: Academic Programs People Faculty Grad Group Graduate Students Language Program Undergraduate Graduate Courses Penn-in-Florence News and Events Current News News Archive Upcoming Events Events Archive Calendar Events at French Events at Hisp Center for Italian Studies New website! Salvatori Fund Vittorini Prize CILS Links and Resources Contact The University of Pennsylvania, strong in its interdisciplinary and international dimensions, supports a flourishing Italian Studies Program. Students can choose a traditional concentration in language and literature or shape more individualized curriculums that connect to sister programs. The Graduate Program in Italian offers students a range of interdisciplinary options that provide a broad academic base in Italian literature, philosophy, film, music, theatre, art, cultural studies, and critical theory, as well as the most current pedagogical theory and practice. Our program in Florence allows students to improve their language skills while enjoying an immersive experience in Italian history and culture. Florence offers a wide array of resources for students, including world-renowned libraries and museums, culinary traditions, and fashion hubs. It is also a very livable city, with accommodations and places of interest all in walking distance. The Center for Italian Studies at the University of Pennsylvania was created in 1978 by President Martin Meyerson and School of Arts and Sciences’ Dean Vartan Gregorian with the endorsement of the Republic of Italy. It has the distinction of being the first such center in the United States. Congratulations to our graduate students! The semester might be over, but it is time to celebrate our students! Please join us in congratulating our graduate students who were honored with awards for their work during this past academic year. Juliette Bellacosa got a Dissertation Research Award. Lourdes Contreras has been selected to participate in the Newberry’s Center for Renaissance Studies (CRS) Italian Paleography Institute. Read more Dr. Samantha Gillen Congratulations, Dr. Samantha Gillen! We celebrate Dr. Gillen's dissertation defense "Narrating the Industrial Space: Intellectuals and the Italian Economic Boom (1955-1965)" Congratulazioni! Alessandro Mulieri, Global Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow The Center for Italian Studies is delighted to announce that in the next few months will welcome a Global Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow, Dr. Alessandro Mulieri. Dr. Mulieri will be at Penn for two years, working on a project entitled Othering the Renaissance. Conceptualizing Foreigners, Slaves, and Infidels in Early Modern Political Thought (ca. 1520-1610), under the supervision of prof. Eva Del Soldato. Read more Join us in Florence with Penn-in-Florence! The Italian Studies section at the University of Pennsylvania is proud to announce the beginning of Penn-in-Florence, our Summer program! Our program in Florence allows students to improve their language skills while enjoying an immersive experience in Italian history and culture. Florence offers a wide array of resources for students, including world-renowned libraries and museums, culinary traditions, and fashion hubs. It is also a very livable city, with accommodations and places of interest all in walking distance. The Applications open on November 15, 2021! Read more MIL@P and Lo cunto de li cunti The graduate students in Italian Studies are proud to announce the fourth year of “Masterpiece of Italian Literature @ Penn,” a graduate-led group that aims to read literary texts that have played a pivotal role in global literature. Read more more Calendar « May » S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 Visit CIS on Facebook! /italian.at.penn FOLLOW THE CIS AND THE DEPARTMENT ALSO ON: INSTAGRAM: https://www.instagram.com/upennitalian TWITTER: @PennItalian Donate Support Italian Studies at Penn with a donation. Italian Studies @ Penn Italian Studies at Penn embraces research and teaching concerning agents, people and institutions--with related linguistic, intellectual and artistic objects and media--mostly originating from Italian-speaking geographical areas and featuring relationships with the Italian language, its dialects, and the Latinate tradition, from the Medieval period to today. Italian Studies considers itself as both autonomous and in relationship with a constellation of other disciplines and scholars located in a variety of Penn departments (including English, Classical Studies, History, Music, History of Art, and Political Science among others), programs (e.g., Cinema and Media Studies, Comparative Literature, Jewish Studies, Global Medieval and Renaissance Studies), centers (e.g., Gender Sexuality & Women, Africana Studies, Wolf Humanities), schools (e.g., Wharton, Design), and libraries (esp. the Kislak Center). Research and teaching areas currently developed by the Italian Studies Unit, in collaboration with the Center for Italian Studies, include a) the tre corone (Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio), b) the Renaissance and early modern periods, c) book and manuscript studies, d) performance and media studies, e) race and migration issues, and f) Mediterranean studies. Please find here a description of our graduate program, and here one of our undergraduate degree. © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Center for Italian Studies 549 Williams Hall, 255 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305 215-898-6040 / italians@sas.upenn.edu