Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High School Freshmen Transfer International Online (UofM Global) Readmits Graduate Law School Non-Degree Seeking Parents & Families HS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics High School Students Request Info > Visit > Apply > Start Your Me + Memphis Journey Now This is the one time in your life when you should find the place that speaks to you. Not to anyone else. Memphis is alive with creativity and innovation – where you can’t help but become your best self. At the University of Memphis, you can choose from more than 250 program areas in 12 colleges and schools. Location is key as well, so you can choose to attend on-ground in Memphis, at the UofM Lambuth campus in Jackson, TN, or anywhere you'd like through our fully-online and nationally ranked program, UofM Global. Dual Enrollment Did you know the UofM hosts the most robust dual enrollment program in the state? Our participants meet higher than average eligibility standards, making them prime candidates for admission to the university. Any high school senior who enrolls in a UofM dual enrollment course will be granted admission to the university as a degree-seeking student for the semester immediately following graduation. The student must still apply for admission and necessary documents to complete their enrollment. Learn more > Seniors It's not too early to start preparing for college. It's go time! Apply early to be eligible for scholarships. Time to Apply > About UofM Explore housing, academics, student life and more. Explore Campus > Juniors See the steps you need to take this year to start your college search. Start Your Search > Meet Your Admissions Counselor Your counselor can help with all questions related to UofM admissions. Find Counselor > Sophomores It's not too early to start preparing for college. Get Started > Applying to UofM Review requirements, directions to apply and next steps. Application Process > Get Connected Follow @uofmemphis on social media to connect with fellow Tigers and stay up-to-date on news. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/7/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.