Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Industry Internships In the USA, Georgia Tech has been ranked by the Wall Street Journal as the #1 school in terms of engineering by top-rated companies recruiting new hires. This is attributed to Georgia Tech’s rigorous curriculum, practical education, and strong ties to industry. GT-Shenzhen is constantly identifying, building, and maintaining strong relationships with multiple organizations. We host industry seminars and invite alumni and leaders from the industry to give interactive Tech talks. Our students have performed internships in companies like SF Express, UBTech, PingAn Technology, etc. We also have collaborations with local startups and VCs to promote innovation and entrepreneurship education. Thanks to our excellent location close to various high-tech clusters in Shenzhen, GT-Shenzhen students will have ample opportunities to pursue internships. GT-Shenzhen students who are Chinese citizens can work part-time on internships during a semester when taking classes. International students wishing to gain industry experience while taking classes can only do so with an unpaid internship. GT-Shenzhen students can take a semester off to engage in a full-time internship in Shenzhen, but only after completing a semester of full-time study at GT-Shenzhen. Those who work full-time on internships should complete the internship application, prior to registering for INTN 6012 – SHZ “Graduate Internship Program”, a 12-credit hour non-tuition bearing course to maintain full-time student status. Upon satisfactory completion of the internship, a grade of “V” will appear on the student’s transcript. This grade will not enter into the student’s GT GPA calculation, and the credits earned will not contribute to the degree requirements. All graduate internships must also be related to the student’s major. At the end of the work semester, each student will download a blank performance evaluation for the supervisor to complete and return to the GT graduate internship advisor. Finally, each student will log into GT’s CareerBuzz to complete the required work forms. Students who only engage in part-time internships should not register for this course. Companies offering internships will hold face-to-face interviews with prospective interns. The program cannot assist with internship arrangements before the student has enrolled in the GT-Shenzhen program. The decision to hire an intern resides with the company and is strongly correlated with the student’s academic record and interview performance. GT-Shenzhen cannot guarantee internship placement for every student who desires an internship experience. Note: Spring and fall are regular semesters. Students cannot work for more than 20 hours per week on an internship or other employment during the spring or fall semester. An exception to the above is for students who have completed at least 2 semesters and 18 credit hours at GT-Shenzhen and wish to engage in a full-time internship by registering for INTN 6012. INTN 6012 course is not applicable for the following situations: (1) Students who take at least one GT class in a semester. (2) Students who engage in a (full-time) internship during the summer semester. (3) Students who graduate in the same term. International (non-Chinese) students cannot engage in an internship outside of Shenzhen any time of the year. Application and Docusign Approvals: Line 1: Tschnadia Robinson on the first line for Dept/Grad Coordinator approval and all “MAJOR SCHOOL” questions Line 2: Chelcea Warren as an additional signature (required for GT-Shenzhen) Save Save Save Save Save Save Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology