By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Santiago More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Santiago, Chile Come study abroad in Santiago, the capital of Chile, where gleaming high-rises stand tall against the breathtaking backdrop of the Andes Mountains. This thriving, modern city offers museums and historic plazas, open-air concerts and spectacular street art, contemporary cuisine and bustling, colorful markets. Syracuse Santiago is a full language and cultural immersion opportunity. While in Santiago, take courses toward your major and unique classes that tap into the rich cultural resources of the city. At least three semesters of college-level Spanish (or the equivalent) are required for acceptance to the program. Begin Your Application Syracuse Santiago Courses The Syracuse Santiago program is embedded within our partner institution, Pontificia Universidad Católica, named the best university in Latin America. The majority of students start the program with four weeks of focused language study in Cuenca, Ecuador. Courses at our partner institutions have been thoroughly vetted and approved by Syracuse University. You can expect a curriculum that is rigorous, innovative and distinguished by the same exceptional standards that apply in every other aspect of a Syracuse University academic experience. Syracuse Santiago courses may fulfill curricular requirements so you can stay on track to graduate on time. Explore a range of topics across disciplines at the center. Study in Depth Each Syracuse Abroad center offers depth in particular areas of study. At Syracuse Santiago, these include: Spanish language Spanish and Latin American literature Latin American politics, history and indigenous cultures Business and economics Environment and development International relations Human rights Science, technology, engineering and math Visual arts Wondering if Syracuse Santiago is the right fit for you? Refine your Syracuse Abroad options to discover the program that best fits your academic goals. Semester Programs Link In Santiago, you will enroll in your choice of courses at our partner institutions. Your studies will include field trips and hands-on study, and you’ll have the opportunity to explore the unique natural areas and diverse communities of the region. Travel with Purpose Link Before your regular courses begin, you’ll participate in an 11-day traveling signature seminar, visiting urban and rural areas in Chile, Argentina and Uruguay, and delve into important political, sociological and environmental issues of the Southern Cone of South America. At Home in Cuenca and Santiago Link In Santiago, you have the chance to participate fully in Spanish-speaking daily life. Your experience is enhanced through your housing options. In both Cuenca and Santiago, you’ll live with host families, and you’ll receive three home-cooked meals every day. (P.S. Remember, in the Southern hemisphere the seasons are the opposite of what you experience in the United States—December is summertime and June is mid-winter.) World Ready. Career Ready. Link Professional development internships in Santiago are available to graduate students and advanced undergraduates. The program features challenging internships and research projects with NGOs, government agencies, and private-sector offices involved in international trade, gender and minority issues, social work, sociology, journalism, commerce and banking. Can I Afford to Study Abroad? Link Yes! We work with you to make studying abroad within reach. Your financial aid package may apply, plus there are other assistance options, including scholarships, grants and awards. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Featured Stories Navigating the Unknown in Santiago Cafui Awasu reflects on the challenges, discoveries and personal growth of her study abroad experience. Related Pages Why Syracuse Abroad? Students from all over the world choose Syracuse Abroad for its academic excellence, unique programming and dedicated faculty and staff. Syracuse Abroad offers flexible study options and generous financial aid so you can build the knowledge and skills that will help you succeed anywhere. Requirements and Deadlines Ready to apply? Learn more about requirements, deadlines and what you need to begin your application. Information for Accepted Students Have you already been accepted into a study abroad program? Learn what steps you need to take next! Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy