Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Acupuncture Acupuncture Medical Services offers acupuncture in partnership with the Pacific College of Health and Science (PCHS). Columbia students who have paid the full Columbia Health and Related Services Fee may receive up to five sessions at Medical Services. Referrals are not required for this service. Acupuncture services are administered by PCHS interns who are supervised by a licensed acupuncturist. The first visit will include a comprehensive evaluation and may take up to one hour. Each additional session is typically one hour. During the pandemic, we also offer virtual acupressure sessions that can be scheduled via the Patient Portal. Expand all Collapse all Frequently Asked Questions What to expect during your visit? Typically, an acupuncturist will begin by taking a complete history, asking numerous questions about your primary complaint as well as more general health issues. An acupuncturist physical exam may resemble a more conventional exam, including measuring vital signs such as weight, temperature, and blood pressure. It is also likely to include a more detailed examination and analysis of the pulse and tongue as well as abdominal palpation and facial diagnosis. After arriving at a working diagnosis, the acupuncturist will place you in a comfortable position to insert needles. You may be seated although it is more common to lie down. Ten to 20 needles may be inserted although more or less is not uncommon. Once you are comfortable, you will relax in the treatment room for 15 to 20 minutes, with the acupuncturist checking on you periodically. How many treatments will it take to resolve my problem? Most health problems take more than one treatment to resolve. Expect to have four treatments before reassessment or an outside referral is given. What is acupuncture? Acupuncture consists of the gentle insertion and stimulation of thin, disposable, sterile needles in strategic points near the body surface. Are the needles like the ones I get from a vaccination? Acupuncture needles are much finer than the familiar hypodermic needle. Will this hurt? Some acupuncture patients are initially wary of the claim that acupuncture doesn't hurt, but they soon discover that the experience is quite pleasurable. Acupuncture Resources National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine Mayo Clinic: What is Acupuncture? Go Ask Alice! Holistic & Integrative Health Q&As Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Clinical Specialty Physical Health and Wellbeing Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close