Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Connect Connect Visit Visit Apply Apply Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Admission Connect Connect Request Information Meet the Team Visit Campus Visit Campus Virtual Visits Perkins Comes to You Apply Apply Application Steps Application Submission Dates Degrees at a Glance International Students Affording Seminary Affording Seminary Scholarships Financial Literacy Bursar's Office Cost Summary Admit Portal ☰ Perkins School of Theology Perkins Admission Apply Apply Ready to begin? Start an application today! Apply now Solicitud Application Process We’re thrilled that you’ve decided to apply to Perkins School of Theology. Before you start your application, keep in mind that: You must complete each section of the application. The sections do not have to be completed in order. You can save your application and come back later to add or change information. Once you’ve submitted your application, you can no longer make changes. Your application must include a resumè, writing samples, transcripts and recommendations. Review the applications steps before you get started to be sure you’ll have all the information and documents you need to complete the online forms. You may also want to look at our degrees at a glance before you begin. If you are an international student, be sure to learn about some requirements and considerations that may affect you. Applications are reviewed throughout the year, but we encourage you to apply early to ensure your materials are received in a timely manner and to have the best opportunity to win one of our merit-based scholarships. (Learn more about financial aid options.) See more submission dates Get more information about applying to Perkins Application steps Submission dates Degrees at a glance International students Admission Requirements by Degree M.Div., M.A.M., and M.T.S. Applicants Applicants for the above degree programs must have completed an undergraduate Bachelor of Arts degree or equivalent from an accredited college or university with a minimum GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale in a well-balanced, pre-theological curriculum. Other considerations include seriousness of purpose, potential for growth in the preparation for the profession of ministry (M.Div. and M.A.M only), emotional stability, and likelihood of satisfactory performance in the degree program. M.S.M. Applicants A cumulative G.P.A. of at least 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale) is required for admission to the Master of Sacred Music program. The concentration in Liturgical Musicology requires a cumulative G.P.A. of at least 3.5 for admittance and that the student maintain at least a 3.5 for all graduate work. Although one application is made through Perkins School of Theology, successful applicants for the M.S.M. program are accepted by both the Division of Music in the School of the Arts and the School of Theology. Applied Concentrations •Choral Conducting: Submit a 20 minute video link(s) and writing sample •Composition and Arranging: Submit links to recordings, PDF of scores, and goal statement •Keyboards: Register for an audition on campus or submit a recorded audition •Organ: Register for an audition on campus or submit a recorded audition Academic Concentrations • Music Education: Submit a 20 minute video link(s), writing sample and schedule interview with sarahallen@smu.edu •Worship Arts: Register and submit a writing sample •Liturgical Musicology: Register and submit a writing sample Further instructions for application materials for each concentration may be found by clicking here. From this link you may select “Audition Requirements” and “Academic Concentration Requirement.” Th.M. Applicants for the Th.M. degree program must have successfully completed an Association of Theological Schools - accredited degree at the master's level requiring at least 2 years of full-time study or the equivalent credential from an institution outside the U.S. and Canada. Academic ability, as shown by a minimum GPA of 3.00 (on a 4.00 scale) in a previous master's-level program, is required. Maestría en Teología (Th.M.) Los postulantes al programa de Maestría en Teología (Th.M.) deben haber completado una Asociación de Escuelas Teológicas: un título acreditado a nivel de maestría que requiera al menos 2 años de estudio a tiempo completo o una credencial equivalente de una institución fuera de los EE. UU. y Canadá. Se requiere habilidad académica, comprobable con un GPA (promedio general) mínimo de 3.00 (en una escala de 4.00) en un programa de maestría anterior. Other Academic Degree Applicants (non-degree programs) (non-degree programs) Applicants must have a B.A. or equivalent degree and who wish to take courses for credit but who do not wish to enter a degree program may seek admission to Perkins as non-degree student. Application, official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate academic work, two letters of reference and an explanation of the proposed plan of study indicating the courses desired is required. Questions? Contact Stephen Bagby, Director of Admission Operations, at 214-768-2139 or sbagby@smu.edu. “My Perkins classmates are not only members of the United Methodist Church. They’re Pentecostal, Episcopal, Lutheran, Church of God, Catholic — and I learn from all these traditions. I think God sent me to this university to open my mind and my eyes and my theology. Not to change my doctrines or my beliefs, but to understand more when I meet someone who’s not in my faith, to understand that we are still children of God, all worshiping the same God, but from different perspectives.” —Maxwell Urbina (Master of Divinity, Student 2018-2019) An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share