Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Finance and Operations Division CU-LEAN Training Programs Clemson offers four training programs geared toward enabling individuals to lead and participate in process improvement projects. The Lean Office provides training opportunities for all interested employees, including those wanting to participate in a Lean project and those simply wanting to understand Lean concepts for Higher Education. Executive Level Training This level of training provides an overview of the entire Lean program. It has been designed specifically for executives, deans and other high level management. This brief presentation describes what Lean is and how the Lean office intends to deploy Lean across campus. The purpose of this training is to inform on-campus leadership and encourage its support on process improvement projects across campus. Executive Level Training is a one-hour training course. White Belt This level of training is the first step to becoming a Clemson Lean employee. White Belt training introduces the basic concepts of Lean, the importance of change and improvement, and the goals of the CU-LEAN program. The purpose is to show all levels of employees the role they can play as a part of larger processes and to encourage them to seek out improvement possibilities continuously. The following must be completed in order to become white belt certified: in-class Training (three-hour course), participate in a Lean event and serve as a team member and pass certification test. Sign up for White Belt Training here. Purple Belt This level of training introduces a more in-depth understanding of Lean tools and the PDCA methodology used in Kaizen events. Purple Belts have been members of project teams and have earned their White Belt. The purpose of this training is to provide team members with the tools and knowledge they need to lead teams as the Value Stream Manager. Purple Belts must be selected by both the Lean Council and their supervisor prior to enrollment in the Lean training. This training allows employees to lead a process improvement project team, with the support of their mentor and the Lean Office. The following must be completed in order to become Purple Belt certified: in-class training (three-hour course), participate in a Lean event and serve as a Value Stream Manager and pass certification test Orange Belt Orange Belts have been members of project teams, led at minimum two projects as a Value Stream Manager and have earned their Purple Belt. Orange Belts must be selected by both the Lean Council and their supervisor prior to enrollment in the Lean training. These individuals show dedication to the Lean initiative through their consistent leadership in process improvement projects. There is no additional classroom training for Orange Belts. The following must be completed: lead and implement, at minimum, two project teams as a Value Stream Manager and pass certification test. Senior Orange Belt Senior Orange Belts have been members of project teams, led at minimum 2 projects as a Value Stream Manager and have earned their Orange Belt. This level of training is the first step to becoming a Lean facilitator and mentor. Senior Orange Belt training introduces the process for facilitating Value Stream Mapping and Kaizen events and helps individuals understand the right questions to ask teams to lead them toward an improved future state. Individuals will watch how events are facilitated, have the opportunity to co-facilitate events and upon the completion of the training, be able to successfully facilitate events on their own. The following must be completed in order to become Senior Orange Belt certified: serve as Value Stream Manager for multiple projects in preparation for total project facilitation and pass certification test. Senior Orange Belt Roles Senior Orange Belt facilitators play the roles of project analyst, manager and facilitator within each of their projects. A goal of CU-Lean is to develop Senior Orange Belts within each department who can independently cycle through the above process. Our Senior Orange Belts: Stephanie Barker, Cash and Treasury Services Kayla Cleveland, Division of Student Affairs Allison Patton, Procurement Tom Jones, Facilities Erin Thomas, Budget Office If you are interested in receiving training, please email Lisa Knox. Home Structure Methodology Training Lean Events Contact Us Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Accounting for Related Organizations Budget Office Office of Strategy & Analytics Cash and Treasury Services Controller's Office Human Resources Land and Capital Asset Stewardship Lean Office Payroll Procurement Services Student Financial Services University Facilities Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram