Search Domains Pulmonary CUMC PACC Rounds | Conferences | Contact | Make A Gift | Intranet Primary links HOME ABOUT US FACULTY RESEARCH CLINICAL CENTERS FELLOWSHIP FOR PATIENTS Clinical Centers Price Family Center for Comprehensive Chest Care Chest Disease & Respiratory Failure Cystic Fibrosis Lung Transplantation Interstitial Lung Disease Advanced Diagnostic Bronchoscopy Asthma Pulmonary Diagnostics Pulmonary Rehabilitation Bronchiectasis Center General Pulmonary Medicine Acute Respiratory Failure Critical Care Medicine Sleep Disorders Cystic Fibrosis The Gunnar Esiason Adult Cystic Fibrosis and Lung Program Director Emily DiMango M.D. Associate Director Claire Keating, M.D. For Appointments Eladia Goris P: (212) 305-0631 For More Information Amy C. McLaughlin, ANP-BC Nurse Practitioner/Clinical Coordinator Email: am4769@cumc.columbia.edu P: (212) 305-0686 F: (212) 342-4785 Emily DiMango, MD (CV) Claire Keating, MD (CV) In 2009, with a generous grant from the Boomer Esiason Foundation, and under the directorship of Dr. Emily DiMango, The Gunnar Esiason Adult Cystic Fibrosis and Lung Program was established, making it the premier site for adult cystic fibrosis care and research in the New York Metropolitan area. We offer a comprehensive approach to diagnosis and treatment of cystic fibrosis in adults, with specific attention to transition of patients from the pediatric to adult health care system. In addition, the program pursues innovative clinical and basic research, trains future experts in the care and study of adult CF, and provides patient education and outreach programs. As one of the CFF Therapeutics Development Network (TDN) Centers, we are one of the busiest clinical trial sites in the US. Through our clinical research program, we are able to enroll patients in studies of state of the art medications for CF. Cystic Fibrosis is an inherited disease that affects the respiratory and digestive systems. Columbia University has a long tradition in the diagnosis and treatment of cystic fibrosis. The disease was first described in 1938 at this institution by Dr. Dorothy Andersen. The sweat test was developed in 1953 by Dr. Paul di Sant’Agnese when he recognized salt loss as the cause of death in CF patients during a heat wave in NYC. Several renowned scientists from the institution have laboratories dedicated to the further understanding of the disease. Specifically, investigators from Columbia have made major contributions to understanding the electrolyte abnormalities in CF, the mechanisms of lung inflammation in this disease, and development of infection control guidelines. To learn more about CF, visit CFF.org. Technological advances have been made in both disease diagnosis and treatment over the past several decades, resulting in longer, healthier lives for people living with CF. Medical, social, and nutritional needs of patients with CF often change as they mature. Fertility issues also become important to some individuals as they get older. In response to these changing needs, the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program at Columbia University Medical Center works closely with specialists from several different disciplines within our institution, including Gastrenterology (Dr. Julian Abrams), ENT (Dr. David Gudis), Diabetes (Dr. Jacqueline Salas-Spiegel), Ob/Gyn (Dr. Anita Lasala) and Urology (Dr. Peter Stahl). Clinical Trials Participation in clinical trials is a critical part of the culture of care at our Center. We are very excited about recent advances in treatment and future promising agents. To learn more about clinical trials, please visit the cystic fibrosis clinical trials page. If you are interested in learning more, please contact us at ead3@columbia.edu. Patient Care The adult Cystic Fibrosis Program offers state of the art clinical care for patients 18 years of age and older with cystic fibrosis, Kartegener’s disease, bronchiectasis, and related respiratory disorders. The multi-disciplinary team includes two full time physicians dedicated to CF, a full time nurse coordinator, a full time social worker, a full time nutritionist and a part time physical therapist. Patients are seen in the Adult clinic setting, with meticulous attention to infection control issues; the staff is well-trained regarding infection control in CF and follow strict guidelines to prevent spread of bacteria between patients. The team assists patients with issues such as airway clearance techniques, home IV therapy, home equipment, short and long term disability, exercise and work related restrictions. Furthermore, the Center participates in clinical trials to offer state of the art medications to all patients. Patients also benefit from the strong Pulmonary Rehabilitation program at Columbia. The Adult CF Center works closely with the Lung Transplant Center at Columbia to facilitate referral when that is deemed necessary. Following lung transplantation, physicians from the transplant and the cystic fibrosis teams work closely together in the continued care of patients. Staff Our staff members include: Nurse Practitioner: Amy C. McLaughlin, ANP-BC (am4769@cumc.columbia.edu) Administrator Assistant: Eladia Goris (eg242@cumc.columbia.edu) CF Nutritionist: Kimberly Altman MS, RD, CSP, CDN (kia9007@nyp.org) Social Worker: Madeline Pincus, LCSW,PhD (map9009@nyp.org) Physical Therapist: Margot Fein (maf9115@nyp.org) Pharmacist, Olga Marshall (olm9036@nyp.org) Research Coordinators: Kristina Rivera, BS (klr2142@columbia.edu) Miguel Brito: (mb877@columbia.edu) Hugo Camarena, BS (hc2849@cumc.columbia.edu) Sarah Fracasso Francis, BS (smf2218@cumc.columbia.edu) Mya Pugh, BS (mmp2215@cumc.columbia.edu) Jotti Saroya, BS (tks2127@cumc.columbia.edu) 622 West 168 Street | PH 8 East, Room 101 New York, NY 10032 Fax: (212) 305-8464 © 2015 Columbia University | Contact Webmaster