Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Support & Resources » Responding to Disclosures Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Responding to Disclosures First, the Don'ts... Don't decide what's best for them, although you can recommend options. More details about what this means for mandatory reporters is below. Don't pass judgement or cast doubt on their story. Chances are they just need someone to listen. Don't minimize what happened. If something seems small to you it doesn't mean that the person telling you about it feels the same way. What You Can Say "It's not your fault." "You are not alone." "I'm sorry this happened." Additional Support The options below are adapted from the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network. Avoid Judgement Avoid questioning their behavior or actions unless you are seeing destructive behavior. Everyone deals with difficult events in their own way. Check In Reaching out to see how someone is doing can go along way. A friendly text message, inviting them out to coffee, or cooking dinner together are all ways that you can show them you care and are thinking about them. Provide Resources Knowing your resources in advance helps when someone comes to you to disclose their experience. We recommend becoming familiar with the Support & Resources materials on our site and also looking around the broader community. As a Mandatory Reporter Below are some suggested responses based on possible scenarios: "It's brave of you to talk about this, and I respect you reaching out for help. You should know before we talk more that I must report any sexual violence to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. However, I can also point you towards some confidential resources if you'd like." "I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I am a mandatory reporter and I want to let you know that there are a number of situations where I am required to report what you tell me to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. I am happy to talk to you, but if you'd like to first explore options with a confidential resource here are a few options." "I'm glad you want to talk to me about this and that you feel comfortable speaking with me about something that might be hard to discuss. I want to make sure that you understand my role here. I will do everything I can to protect your privacy, but depending on what you tell me I may need to inform another administrator at the university." University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top