Skip to main content Visit iastate.edu Go to ISU University Museums homepage Expand mobile menu art Exhibitions Search the Collections Publications Image Rights & Reproduction visit Brunnier Art Museum Christian Petersen Art Museum Farm House Museum Anderson Sculpture Garden Art On Campus Collection Tours virtual Blog Art on Campus Fact Sheets Art on Campus Digital Map Collections Database Coloring Book Digital Puzzles Zoom Backgrounds Past Virtual Programs About Faces of Iowa State 2021 Digital Publications calendar learn ISU Curriculum Programs Public Programs Lynette L. Pohlman Museum Fellowship K-12 Program Offerings Guided Tours Internship & Student Employee support Become a Member Society Level Giving Ways to Give Corporate Support and Sponsorship Docent Program Volunteer about Mission & Goals Hours & Locations Staff News History Advisory Committee Facility Rental Request Form Frequently Asked Questions art Exhibitions All the Evils... Christian Petersen and the Art of War Arts and Craftsman: Simplicity, Honesty, and Truth to Materials Collecting Craft: Studio and Contemporary Makers Ginnever: Transforming Perspectives Julie W Chang: Vibrant Matter Mythical Bounty: Glass Sculpture by Amber Cowan Studio to Contemporary Glass: 1960s to Today From Time Immemorial: Art as Commemoration Upcoming Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Propose an Exhibition form Search the Collections Publications Image Rights & Reproduction Form visit Brunnier Art Museum Christian Petersen Art Museum About Christian Petersen Christian Petersen's Panthers Farm House Museum Anderson Sculpture Garden Art On Campus Collection Art on Campus Digital Map Tours virtual Blog Art on Campus Fact Sheets Art on Campus Digital Map Collections Database Coloring Book Digital Puzzles Zoom Backgrounds Past Virtual Programs About Faces of Iowa State 2021 Digital Publications calendar learn ISU Curriculum Programs Faculty Resources Student Resources Public Programs Virtual Programs Calendar of Events Lynette L. Pohlman Museum Fellowship K-12 Program Offerings Tour Request Education Kits Guided Tours Tour Request Form Internship & Student Employee Intern & Student Employee Application Lynette L. Pohlman Museum Fellowship support Become a Member Society Level Giving Ways to Give Corporate Support and Sponsorship Docent Program Docent Application Form Volunteer about Mission & Goals Hours & Locations Staff Hiring: Curator III Hiring: Business Administrator II Hiring: Director of Development News History Advisory Committee Facility Rental Request Form Frequently Asked Questions Main Content Brunnier Art Museum Christian Petersen Art Museum About Christian Petersen Farm House Museum Anderson Sculpture Garden Art On Campus Collection Tours Home Visit Christian Petersen Art Museum Christian Petersen Art Museum The Christian Petersen Art Museum was opened in a renovated Morrill Hall in 2007. The museum is named after the nation’s first permanent campus artist-in-residence, Christian Petersen, who sculpted and taught at Iowa State University from 1934 through 1955, and is considered the founder of the Art on Campus Collection. University Museums strives to preserve his legacy and continue his tradition of art on the Iowa State University campus through exhibitions and educational programs. The Christian Petersen Art Museum exhibits works of art by Christian Petersen in addition to a rotating schedule of exhibitions that includes contemporary art, public art, and exhibitions that engage a diverse group of departments across campus. The Christian Petersen Art Museum is the home of the Christian Petersen Art Collection, the Art on Campus Program, the University Museums’ Visual Literacy and Learning Program, and contemporary changing art exhibitions. The two main art galleries are the Lyle and Nancy Campbell Art Gallery on the main floor and the Roy and Bobbi Reiman Public Art Studio Gallery on the lower level of Morrill Hall. Click here for current exhibitions. Cost The cost is free, with a suggested donation of $8. Hours Campbell Gallery Hours: (first floor - 1017): Monday - Friday, 10:00 am - 4:00 pm Closed Saturday & Sunday and University holidays & breaks Reiman Gallery Hours: (lower level - 0003) Monday - Friday, 10:00 am - 4:00 pm Closed Saturday & Sunday and University holidays & breaks Petersen Gallery: (lower level - 003 hallway) - Accessible during Morrill Hall open hours Address 0003 and 1017 Morrill Hall 603 Morrill Road Ames, Iowa 50011 Parking Memorial Union Parking Ramp 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, Iowa 50011 Schedule a Tour Also located within Morrill Hall is the Mary Alice Gallery - Textile and Clothing Museum. 515-294-3342 515-294-3342 Contact Us Join our Mailing List Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Donate Now 1805 Center Drive, Ames, IA 50011 © 2022 University Museums, Iowa State University. All rights reserved. Sitemap WEB DEVELOPMENT BY GLOBAL REACH © 2022 University Museums, Iowa State University. All rights reserved.