Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Related Links The Institute for the Liberal Arts The Core Curriculum Undergraduate Admission Why Morrissey College? Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate The Liberal Arts Advantage Undergraduate The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center The Liberal Arts Advantage Critical thinking, ethical reasoning, intellectual dexterity, creative imagination, cultural competency, direct and effective communication—these are the skills employers value most. They’re what students learn through Boston College's approach to a liberal arts education of the whole person. A Boston College liberal arts education compels students to think and learn across disciplines, prepares graduates for a range of rewarding careers, and helps them discern who they want to be—and why. By exploring enduring questions and complex problems, like human nature and climate change, liberal arts students acquire the knowledge, skills, and habits of mind and heart they will need to thrive as well-rounded, reflective people in a diverse, global society. The Liberal Arts at Boston College The liberal arts have always been at the center of the Jesuit, Catholic intellectual tradition: They promote integration of students' intellectual, spiritual, social, and affective lives, inspiring them to reflect on who they are and how they want to engage the world. The Boston College Core Curriculum is rooted in this liberal arts tradition. The University's Institute for the Liberal Arts is dedicated to fostering innovative interdisciplinary programs that enhance the intellectual life of the community and encourage new ways of experiencing the world. Related Links The Institute for the Liberal Arts The Core Curriculum Undergraduate Admission Why Morrissey College? Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Core Curriculum Careers Formation Core Curriculum Through our Core Curriculum, undergraduates study the forces that have shaped history while learning how to think across disciplines and communicate effectively in an increasingly complex world. Learn more Play Play Learn more about Endeavor, a three-day career exploration program that brings together sophomores pursuing degrees in the liberal arts with alumni, faculty, and friends. Careers Astrophysicist, educator, economist, politician—these are just some of the careers for which a Boston College liberal arts education prepares students. Career Center Web Site Formation Boston College is committed to the formation of the whole person. We connect the foundations of the liberal arts to enduring questions of self exploration and discovery. Formation at BC Play Video: Power of a Jesuit Education | Hear from our faculty, administrators, and students about what makes Boston College distinctive. The Liberal Arts in Action Institute for the Liberal Arts As Boston College’s home for the liberal arts, the ILA organizes symposia and seminars and supports pioneering programs that bridge disciplines and approach education in inventive ways. The Lowell Humanities Series Through the Lowell Humanities Series, distinguished authors, artists, and scholars come to campus to discuss their work and lives. Past guests include Maya Angelou, Zadie Smith, Susan Sontag, Robert Frost, and T.S. Eliot. Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Boston College’s new institute fosters interdisciplinary faculty collaboration in three research areas such as energy, health, and the environment. Morrissey College Class of '18, after graduation “At Boston College, we hope our students become women and men of depth of thought and creative imagination, who are ready to engage the needs of our world and well-prepared for meaningful lives of leadership, scholarship, and service.” GREGORY KALSCHEUR, S.J., Dean, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Exploring a Meaningful Life Cornerstone Programs Through these special courses, first-year students consider who they are and their experiences at Boston College while they build relationships with academic advisers. Perspectives Program This four-year, interdisciplinary course of study integrates the humanities and natural sciences and prompts students to examine how historical movements continue to shape contemporary life. PULSE Program PULSE provides special opportunities for students to use their knowledge in service to others. During the program, students help marginalized populations and discuss social justice, philosophy, and theology with their peers. Capstone Program Capstone courses conclude the undergraduate experience and feature small class sizes, guided reflection, and rigorous study. Stokes Hall, a Home for the Humanities at Boston College Stokes Hall, completed in 2013, is a 183,000-square-foot building devoted to the liberal arts at Boston College. Stokes Hall, completed in 2013, is a 183,000-square-foot building devoted to the liberal arts at Boston College. The building contains 36 classrooms and houses the classical studies, English, history, philosophy, and theology departments, the Arts and Sciences Honors Program, a coffee shop, and the offices of First Year Experience, PULSE, and the Academic Advising Center. The building contains 36 classrooms and houses the classical studies, English, history, philosophy, and theology departments, the Arts and Sciences Honors Program, a coffee shop, and the offices of First Year Experience, PULSE, and the Academic Advising Center. The Chocolate Bar in Stokes Hall serves coffee and tea, pastries, breakfast and lunch, as well as everything chocolate. The Chocolate Bar in Stokes Hall serves coffee and tea, pastries, breakfast and lunch, as well as everything chocolate. The Chocolate Bar is also a popular place for faculty and students to meet before and after class. The Chocolate Bar is also a popular place for faculty and students to meet before and after class. Stokes Hall has several common lounge spaces where students can work on group projects or hold club meetings. Stokes Hall has several common lounge spaces where students can work on group projects or hold club meetings. One of Boston College's newest buildings, Stokes Hall is designed to reflect the University's traditional collegiate gothic style. One of Boston College's newest buildings, Stokes Hall is designed to reflect the University's traditional collegiate gothic style. The bridge that connects the building's two wings has become a popular place for students to study and relax. The bridge that connects the building's two wings has become a popular place for students to study and relax. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College