By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Schools & Colleges More from this Section Commencement Online Programs Libraries, Collections & Galleries Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Majors & Minors Academic Administration Centers & Institutes Research Syracuse Abroad Calendars Opportunities & Support Departments Syracuse University Global Schools and Colleges Within Syracuse's 13 schools and colleges, you'll find over 200 majors and 100 minors, more than 200 advanced degree programs, hundreds of the world's top researchers and scholars and almost infinite opportunity. Maybe the School of Architecture is where you will hone your passion for design and talent for precision. Or if you love getting the word out, our Newhouse School is where you can master the art of communication. No matter what your craft may be, this is where you'll transform your curiosity and interests into expertise. School of Architecture As the fourth oldest architecture school in the country, Syracuse's School of Architecture offers a professional curriculum that stresses creativity, research and problem solving. The five-year program leads to a Bachelor of Architecture degree. The College of Arts and Sciences The founding college of Syracuse University remains at the center of undergraduate learning. The College is divided into the natural sciences and mathematics, the humanities, and the social sciences, with the lattermost offered in partnership with the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. School of Education The School of Education is a national leader in enhancing educational practice. A pioneer in the inclusion movement, the School of Education continues that tradition through its work to improve urban education. The College of Engineering and Computer Science Future engineers and computer scientists learn to create new knowledge and technologies through ten undergraduate majors. Students have access to nationally regarded research centers, state-of-the-art lab spaces, and challenging internships. The David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Social justice principles are at the foundation of programs in exercise science, food studies, human development and family science, marriage and family therapy, public health, nutrition, social work, sport analytics and sport management. Academics, service learning projects, internships, research opportunities, immersion travel and clubs connected to our majors prepare students for careers to make a difference in the communities where they will live and work. School of Information Studies As the nation's original Information School, Syracuse's iSchool continues to be a leader in preparing students for a fast-paced digital future by teaching the technological, communication, management and design skills necessary to develop solutions for any industry or to launch your own startup. College of Law At Syracuse Law, you’ll learn in small classes where you’ll actually get to know the thought leaders who will teach and mentor you. You’ll be part of Syracuse Law’s rich history—one that dates back to 1895—yet you’ll be learning in Dineen Hall , the College of Law’s new home, which is listed among the 50 most impressive law buildings in the world. The Martin J. Whitman School of Management The Whitman School develops entrepreneurial managers who will become leaders in an era of global competitiveness. Programs are built around the major driving forces in business today: entrepreneurial management, globalization, use of technology and leadership. Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs The Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs is Syracuse University’s home for innovative, interdisciplinary teaching and research in the social sciences, public policy, public administration and international relations. It includes America’s #1 ranked graduate program in public affairs, offering highly regarded professional degrees alongside advanced scholarly degrees in the social sciences, and it is home to undergraduate programs across the full spectrum of social sciences. S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Long recognized as one of the elite schools of mass communication, Newhouse embraces virtually every known form of information dissemination. Programs are rooted in the liberal arts while you learn how to manage and produce for the mass media and other areas of public communications. College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) Home to the visual and performing arts at Syracuse, VPA supports the creative process and professional development. The College is divided into seven areas: the School of Art; the Department of Communication and Rhetorical Studies; the School of Design; the Department of Drama; the Rose, Jules R. and Stanford S. Setnor School of Music; the Department of Film and Media Arts; and the Department of Creative Arts Therapy. College of Professional Studies The College of Professional Studies is a global, inclusive and future-facing college that provides access to a diverse population of students and learners who seek a Syracuse University degree, credential, certificate or educational experience from anywhere in the world. Part-time, online and on-campus programs with flexible formats allow students to excel in a way that best suits their lives. Graduate School The Graduate School oversees Syracuse's academic policy, graduate degree and certificate program modification and development and the professional development programs for graduate study at Syracuse University. Related Pages Academic Departments Check out each department and learn what we have to offer, then discover what you have to offer the world. Undergraduate Majors and Minors Choose from more than 200 majors and over 100 minors and embrace the interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse University’s academic options. Graduate Degree Programs Choose from more than 200 advanced degree programs from across Syracuse's 13 schools and colleges, then customize your education with a rich selection of courses, internships, and research projects. College-Specific Admissions Requirements Prospective students of the School of Architecture, some programs in the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Engineering and Computer Sciences, and the College of Visual and Performing Arts, have additional application requirements to be aware of. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy