Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Horizons Brown Horizons Seminar Horizons is a seminar organized by members of the math department with the following goals: to discuss issues of gender, racial, and sexual inclusivity in STEM fields; to provide career advancement and job placement advice to graduate students; and to promote the research and work of traditionally under-represented mathematicians by hosting several colloquium-style mathematics talks. Horizons is supported by the Mathematics Department, ICERM, the C. V. Starr Foundation Lectureship Fund, and Professor Melody Chan’s NSF CAREER Award. Upcoming Seminars Moira Chas, Stony Brook University Date: 3/16/22 Time: 12:00-1:00pm Location: Foxboro Auditorium and Via Zoom Title: Diversity in three and four dimensions. Abstract: It is a truth universally acknowledged that a random snapshot of a mathematical conference in the US will show a surprising lack of variation in the gender and ethnicity of the participants. In the first part of this talk we will explore some possible reasons - impostor syndrome, fixed mindsets, gender harassment, feeling of not belonging, expectations of brilliance, accumulation of disadvantage, gender schemes,…. We will discuss with the audience ideas of how to improve all of this. The second part will be devoted to the extraordinaire mathematician Alicia Boole Stott, and her path to mathematics with emphasis on studying what allowed her to make remarkable discoveries in an age and time when women were rarely seen at higher educational institutions. Alicia (1860-1940), the middle of five daughters of George Boole, without any formal mathematical training, rediscovered the six convex regular four dimensional polytopes (these are the four dimensional analogues of the five Platonic solids in dimension three and the infinitude of regular polygons in dimension two) and studied their sections, that is, their intersections with three dimensional planes. In dimension four, the six convex regular polytopes are the simplex (whose faces are tetrahedra), the 4D-cube, the 16-cell (dual of the 4D cube, whose faces are tetrahedra), the 24-cell (self-dual, whose faces are octahedra), the 120-cell (whose faces are dodecahedra) and the 600-cell (dual of the 120-cell, faces are tetrahedra). She also devised a method to construct semi-regular polytopes in all dimensions, starting with regular ones. This method was later used by geometers such as Coxeter and Conway. Seminar Slides Adriana Salerno - "Rehumanizing a Math Department" Rochelle Gutierrez - “Rehumanizing Mathematics: Why it matters for Students and Society” Edray Goins - “A Dream Deferred: 50 Years of Blacks in Mathematics" Dagan Karp - "Critical Theory in Postsecondary Mathematics Education" Organizers Thomas Goodwillie, Professor of Mathematics Jordan Kostiuk, Lecturer Madeline Brandt, Tamarkin Assistant Professor Samuel Freedman, Graduate Student Shiyue Li, Graduate Student Lori Nascimento, Staff Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat