Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Ecology and Conservation Biology are becoming increasingly important fields of study as we learn more about the influences of human activities on ecosystems and seek to build a more sustainable society. The world is blessed with an abundance of natural resources, but the problems associated with their conservation are immense. Protecting rare and endangered species, preventing and controlling invasions of exotics, preserving old growth forests, restoring degraded ecosystems, and balancing the resource demands of industry and the public are just some of the environmental issues you'll face. Many of these issues are also enmeshed in politicized environments. As an environmental and natural resources major, you'll learn methods for confronting some of the world's most pressing problems. FAST FACTS Within walking distance of campus are 17,500 acres of Experimental Forest dedicated to education, research, demonstration and recreation. Next to campus is the 56,000-acre Hartwell Lake, and the mountains are just a short drive away. Our University has a strong Solid Green mission and environmental sustainability campaign. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY What fun is it to learn about the natural world when you're surrounded by four walls? Clemson students have an amazing opportunity to explore the natural beauty that is abundant both on and off campus. Quickly shed the classroom walls and surround yourself instead with trees, streams and wildlife. The program offers three diverse concentrations for you to choose a curriculum that fits with your specific interests. Conservation Biology Concentration: The conservation biology concentration is oriented toward students who desire a greater exposure to taxa, their habitats and their interrelationships. Natural Resource and Economic Policy Concentration: Take a more in-depth study of economics and policy application with our natural resource and economic policy concentration. Natural Resources Management Concentration: With a focus in natural resources management, you'll study management practices for various natural resource subcategories. Curriculum Environmental and Natural Resources: Conservation Biology Concentration, B.S. Environmental and Natural Resources: Natural Resource and Economic Policy Concentration, B.S. Popular Minors Park and Protected Area Management Plant and Environmental Sciences Political Science Wildlife and Fisheries Biology Similar Majors Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Forest Resource Management (B.S.) Geology (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Whether for academics or recreation, there are opportunities for students in environmental and natural resources to be outdoors! Clemson is home to more than 17,500 acres of forestland and 56,000 acres of freshwater. South Africa This amazing faculty-led study abroad opportunity jets students off to Kimberley, South Africa. You'll study the ecology of three distinct regions, visit Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park and see hundreds of species of wildlife. RESEARCH Creative Inquiry teams take on projects like one that is exploring the effects of climate change and land use on the organisms in the Appalachian Mountains.Learn More » Museum Clemson's Campbell Museum of Natural History contains an extensive vertebrate collection as well as a herbarium. Learn More » Solid Green Solid Green is all about pride in Clemson's campus and taking action to help sustain the environment for a better future. This initiative is supported by local and national partnerships.Learn More » SUSTAINABLE DEMO An on-campus garden was designed and implemented to demonstrate sustainable garden practices using native plantings, innovative installation and maintenance practices.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Forestry Club The American Fisheries Society The Wildlife Society AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Field Technician Natural Resources Conservation Service Assistant Education Coordinator Piedmont Park Conservancy Consultant Agcore Technologies GIS Intern Ducks Unlimited Equipment Operator Santee Cooper RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Master of Forest Resources Clemson University M.S. Agricultural and Resource Economics University of Connecticut J.D. Emory University M.S. Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management Clemson University COMMON CAREER AREAS Fish and Wildlife Management Scientist Biologist Technician Parks, Recreation and Tourism Recreation Specialist Environmental Educator Park Administrator, Naturalist or Superintendent Management and Conservation Consulting Land Use Analytics Research and Conservation Real Estate Policy and Planning Administration Planning Compliance Policy and Law Lobbyist Economist Environmental Science and Technology GIS Technician Analytics Air and Water Quality Toxicology Environmental Health or Safety Science and Biotechnology Research and Development Regulatory Toxicology Field, Lab or Research Technician Communication and Education Technical Writing Public Relations and Journalism Tourism Political Action and Lobbying Teaching (Traditional and Non-Traditional) Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Madison Cutts Coordinator of Student Recruitment mcutts@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Environmental and Natural Resources (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.) Forest Resource Management (B.S.) Geology (B.S.) Parks, Recreation and Tourism Management (B.S.) Wildlife and Fisheries Biology (B.S.)