Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Technology Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to Technology Search College of Technology About Us A Message from the Dean Giving to the College of Technology Our Mission Our History Explore Our College College Facilities Research Facilities Research Labs Student Organizations Assessment & Accreditation Faculty Governance Instructional Design Marketing and Communications Technical Support Web Technologies Contact Us Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Admissions Transfer Students Veteran Students Advising Advising Forms Financial Aid and Scholarships College of Technology Scholarships Student Ambassadors First Year Technology Experience (FYTE) Career Services Graduation Petitions FAQs Departments Construction Management Engineering Technology Human Development and Consumer Sciences Information and Logistics Technology Programs Undergraduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Minors Graduate Degree Programs Professional & Certificate Programs Online Programs UH Extend Career Services Career Fair For Recruiters For Students Job Listings Post a Job to TechConnect Career Resources News & Events News Articles Event Calendar Graduation Guide Research Meet the Team Frequently Asked Questions Research Support and Resources Research Projects Research Facilities People Faculty & Staff Administrative Staff Boards of Advisors Alumni For Faculty and Staff Staff Council COT Transition to UH at Sugar land UH Home College of Technology News and Events News and Events Cougar Proud Competition News Archive Calendar News Contact Shandolyn Arline-Johnson UH College of Technology 713-743-9732 Media Contact Sally Strong UH Marketing & Communication 713-743-1530 Top Stories ‘Considerate and Accommodating’ Profs Credited for First-Gen’s Successful Road to Graduation First-generation college students frequently have a more challenging experience acclimating to college than students whose parents have college degrees, but a University of Houston Class of 2022 graduate says his professors made the process easier. May 23, 2022 Executive Masters in HRD Launches Podcast to Celebrate 10-Year Anniversary The Executive Masters in Human Resource Development (HRD) is celebrating its 10-year anniversary by launching a new podcast series. May 2, 2022 New Algorithm Could Simplify Decisions for Ship Channel Dredging A new decision-support tool could become a game changer in the dredging of ship channels. Millions of dollars are at stake every time a major ship channel is cleaned up. Delays in dredging can cost even more by triggering increased risks, repeated maintenance and lost revenue. In either case, the task cannot be put off indefinitely. May 2, 2022 Digital Media Students Find Success at Digifest Over 50 digital media students showed up to showcase some of their most noteworthy projects at this semester’s Digifest. Many students look forward to this event, as it is a great way seniors to show off their portfolios and network with alumni, faculty, and industry professionals. This semester’s Digifest was held March 23 at the University of Houston’s College of Technology at Sugar Land. April 13, 2022 STEM Designation for Supply Chain Program Beginning fall 2022 the University of Houston Supply Chain & Logistics Technology Degree Plan will join an elite group of supply chain programs in Texas that are STEM related as determined by the U.S. Department of Education’s Classification of Instructional Program (CIP), U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) STEM Designated Program List, and the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. April 5, 2022 The Growing Presence of Women in Construction As part of Women in Construction Week (March 7-11), the College of Technology’s Cougars for Women in Construction partnered with the National Association of Women in Construction to host their first Mentoring Friday; an event that connected current female leaders in construction to students in our construction management program. March 30, 2022 User Experience Lab at UH Teaches Students New Skills for the New Hot Job Many of us have experienced the frustration of buying a product that is hard to operate, like a digital alarm clock that comes with a confusing manual to explain how to set the alarm. Now, students from the UH College of Technology are learning how to discover flaws in products before they go to market, how to improve products that never worked as intended, and how to be part of a new in-demand workforce February 15, 2022 UH Professors Named Senior Members of National Academy of Inventors Six University of Houston professors have been named Senior Members of the National Academy of Inventors (NAI), the most UH faculty members to earn the honor in a single election year. February 15, 2022 50-in-5 Faculty Honored for Major Grant Awards and Patents The University of Houston hosted its second 50-in-5 celebration event at the Wortham House on Monday, Feb. 7, honoring faculty members with major grant award and patent achievements. February 14, 2022 UH Prof leads Facebook-funded Study on Social Media & Physical Activity of Black and LatinX Women University of Houston College of Technology Asst. Professor Olivia Johnson received a $50,000 grant to study how social media can influence physical activity among young women of color. “It's exhilarating and very nerve-wracking,” Johnson said. “The study is looking at 18- to 25-year-old Black and Latinx women.” January 27, 2022 Better Together: Lisa and Victoria Lopez Many parents dream of the day when their child graduates from college. Lisa Lopez will not only get to witness her daughter, Victoria Lopez, walk across the commencement stage but the proud mom will be right there beside Victoria when both of their names are called. December 21, 2021 Dr.Malki Speaking at the Invent Conference December 13, 2021 Dr. Carole Goodson Retires from UH College of Technology After 50 Years The University of Houston (UH) College of Technology salutes Dr. Carole E. Goodson as she retires from more than 50 years of professorial service to the University. December 2, 2021 Faculty Celebrated for 50-in-5 Achievements At the first in-person 50-in-5 celebration event, 116 faculty members were honored at the Wortham House on Monday, Nov. 29. President Renu Khator, Provost Paula Myrick Short, and Vice President for Research Amr Elnashai recognized faculty achievements in Year 2 and Year 3 of UH’s 50-in-5 Program. December 1, 2021 4230 MLK Blvd. #300 Houston, TX 77204-4021 Phone: 713-743-4100 Phone(Sugar Land): 832-842-3054 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Social Media Title IX — Sexual Misconduct Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies