Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home Celebrating the Classes of 2020, 2021, and 2022 Congratulations to our graduates! On Monday, May 16, the Columbia Engineering Class of 2022 gathered on the South Lawn of Columbia’s campus to celebrate Class Day. Keynote speaker Sunita Williams addressed the students and shared her journey to becoming a NASA astronaut at a time when it was rare for navy pilots, and especially women, to become astronauts. She challenged students to take a cue from marathon runners and “get to the starting line.” “I could have quit there and never tried, but, like a marathon, you do everything you need to do and make it to the starting line,” she said. “I realized that the notion that helo [helicopter] pilots weren’t astronauts, was the barrier in my head that I needed to erase. I just had to do everything I needed to do to make myself competitive for the job, and then put my application in—I got to the starting line and then the race would be the race.” Shih-Fu Chang, recently named the new dean of Columbia Engineering, joked that like the students, he was also preparing for a new chapter and encouraged students to adopt a “Day One Mindset”: “It’s a mindset the embraces new opportunities and thinks like a beginner, bringing our knowledge and experience—but with a fresh and open perspective, ready to keep growing and keep learning.” Students were also addressed by Columbia University President Lee Bollinger, Senior Class President Estevan Mesa, Valedictorian Ahmet Cem Karadeniz, and graduate student speakers Katrina Li and Sai Mali Ananthanarayanan. On Wednesday, May 18, students gathered for the University Commencement ceremony. President Bollinger expressed faith in the graduates’ ability to change the future for the better. Columbia Engineering graduates from the Class of 2020 and 2021 held their ceremony on Thursday, May 19. The graduates, whose original ceremonies had been remote due to Covid-19, were addressed by President Bollinger at a morning ceremony, then attended a special Class Day ceremony in the afternoon. The event featured alumni speakers Olubunmi Fariyike BS’20, now a Knight-Hennessy Scholar at Stanford, and Jeremy Yao MS’20, creator of an app to help consumers make more sustainable fashion choices. Dean Shih-Fu Chang and Provost Mary C. Boyce also spoke to the crowd. Provost Boyce, who was the former dean of the engineering school, stressed how the creativity of engineers could help bring practical, real-world solutions to the challenges facing society. Highlights from the ceremonies View the full album of Class Day photos here. View the full album of Commencement photos here. View the full album of Classes of 2020 and 2021 Celebration photos here. Student Spotlights Student Award Winners Valedictorian and Illig Prize Ahmet Cem Karadeniz Salutatorian Maya Venkatraman Campbell Award Sai Mali Ananthanarayanan George Vincent Wendell Memorial Medal Alexander Yu-sing Liebeskind Morton B. Friedman Memorial Prize for Excellence Kaveri Anil Thakoor Graduate Student Life Leadership Awards Xun Wang Kristen Lawlor Faculty Award Winners Presidential Teaching Award Yevgeniy Yesilevskiy Faculty Service Award Christine P. Hendon Edward and Carole Kim Award for Faculty Involvement Kyle Bishop Janette and Armen Avanessians Diversity Award Gil Zussman CEAA Distinguished Faculty Teaching Awards Kui Ren Allie Obermeyer Alumni Award Winners Columbia Alumni Medalist Vijay B. Samant 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact