Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Tickets Box-office Info Forward Arrow Box-office Info Back Arrow Back Education Forward Arrow Education Tri-ART Back Arrow Back Host Your Event Forward Arrow Host Your Event Back Arrow Back Support Forward Arrow Support Back Arrow Back About Forward Arrow About People Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Box Office Tickets Box-office Info Education show submenu for Education Tri-ART Host Your Event Support About show submenu for About People Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Current: Box-office Info The box office is open Monday-Friday from 1-5 p.m. and 90 minutes before performances. You may call 864-645-7787 or visit in person. If you are purchasing tickets in person, please park in one of the two spots labeled "Box Office" in front of the main entrance or in the metered spots in front of the main entrance. Season Tickets Season tickets are a benefit available to Friends of the Brooks Center starting at the $100 level. Orders may be placed online or by ticket order form. With season ticket benefits patrons receive early access, 10% off your order and no ticket fees. Donors at the University Club level and above (250+) receive preferential seating. Important Dates Thursday, June 30, 2022 Final day to make your gift to the Friends of the Brooks Center. Thursday, June 30, 2022 Season ticket orders due for University Club level donors and above. Sunday, July 31, 2022 Season ticket orders due for Century Club level donors. Season Ticket Order Form How to Purchase Season Tickets Choose your giving level and make your gift by June 30 Choose your Friends of the Brooks Center membership level using the guide on the support page. Make a gift by visiting https://iamatiger.clemson.edu/giving/brooks-center. Donations must be made by June 30 to receive access to season tickets and other benefits. Complete your season ticket order by the due date Season ticket orders are processed according to donation level. Choose your donation level below for more information. University Club Level and Above ($250+) All season ticket orders due by June 30. Patrons making a gift at $250 and above receive preferred seating in the Brooks Theatre according to donation level. Patrons also receive 10% off their order and ticket fees are waived. Season ticket buyers at the University Club level and above must complete a ticket order form. Orders cannot be processed online to receive preferential seating. Century Club Level ($100-$249) All season ticket orders due by July 31. Patrons making a gift at the Century Club level receive early access to season tickets before the box office opens to the general public. Patrons also receive 10% off their order and ticket fees are waived. Season ticket buyers may complete a ticket order form. Orders will be processed beginning July 11. Online access is available from July 11- July 31. Plan Your Visit Directions and Parking The Brooks Center is located at the intersection of Perimeter and Cherry roads on the Clemson University campus at 141 Jersey Lane, Clemson, SC 29634. Get Directions to the Brooks Center Parking: Visitors to the Brooks Center may park in the lot directly east of the building. Orange painted parking spaces are available for all visitors, beginning at 6 p.m. Orange painted parking spaces with white Brooks Center logos (Patrons' Row) are reserved for donors who annually give at the $500-level or above. Please note that towing begins at 6 p.m. for each event for any unauthorized vehicle parked in an orange space with a Brooks Center logo. Towing Schedule: Towing begins at 6 p.m. in orange spaces with Brooks Center logos on the evening of certain performances. Tri-ART Parking: If you are attending a Tri-ART performance, visit the Tri-Art page to learn more about our shuttle service and bus parking. Handling & Online Fees There are no additional fees for tickets purchased at the box office window or by phone. A $4 per ticket fee is added to all online purchases. A $1 per order fee is charged for mailing tickets. Tickets may be held in will call without a fee. Fees DO NOT apply to Tri-ART orders. No Refunds or Exchanges Brooks Center policy prohibits refunds and exchanges on tickets. You are encouraged to return tickets for events you cannot attend. Your donated tickets will be distributed the evening of the performance. Cancellations In the event a performance is canceled, we will refund all credit card purchases made within six months of the event. Credit card purchases made more than six months prior to the event will receive a Brooks Center gift card. Those who paid by cash or check will receive a Brook Center gift card in the mail. The gift card will not expire. The Box Office will begin processing these refunds the business day after the canceled performance. Questions regarding refunds should be directed to the Box Office at nmartin@clemson.edu. Inclement Weather When Clemson University is closed, the Brooks Center cannot remain open to present performances. While some facilities around campus maintain "auxiliary" status and therefore may remain open, our facility does NOT have this status and MUST close. We are required to cancel scheduled performances if the university closes for any reason. Clemson follows Pickens county offices for closings and delays. Visit the South Carolina Emergency Management Division's website to view closings and delays for Pickens county. Clemson Players Wait List In the event of a sold out Clemson Players production, the wait list begins ninety minutes prior to performance. Tickets will be disbursed per availability, first come first serve. Wait list seating is NOT guaranteed. Groups and Discounts Groups If you would like to book tickets as a group of 10 or more, please contact the box office at 864-656-7787 for more information. Discounts Current Clemson faculty and staff and Emeritus faculty receive a 10% discount on all ticket purchases with CUID. Military veterans and active duty service members receive a 10% discount on all ticket purchases. Anyone with a current student ID or who is 18 years of age and younger may purchase tickets at the reduced student rate. Clemson students can participate in the FREE with CUID program for any Boni Belle Series performance. Clemson students can arrive up to 30 minutes before the performance to receive a free ticket. Students will receive one ticket per CUID and cannot choose the seat location. These tickets are subject to availability. *Discounts cannot be combined and do not apply to season ticket packages. Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Copyright © Clemson University Brooks Center for the Performing Arts | 221 Brooks Center, Box 340525, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3048 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook YouTube Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson