Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift School of Health Research Welcome to the Clemson University School of Health Research Health Sciences Center at Prisma Health awards Clemson grants for research on cancer treatment, genetics, patient care and more The Clemson University School of Health Research is a multidisciplinary unit facilitating health research and scholarship. Since 2013, the Clemson University School of Health Research has been a key entity for health-related scholarship and collaboration, with more than 160 Clemson faculty engaged in health research impacting the community with local and national impact. Clemson FORWARD, Clemson University’s strategic plan, has an emphasis on six innovation clusters, one of which is health innovation. The work by CUSHR researchers is critical to meeting the health innovation goals of Clemson’s strategic plan, and CUSHR is proud to support health-related scholarship at Clemson and with our partners. Health Research News Health Sciences Center at Prisma Health awards Clemson grants for research on cancer treatment, genetics, patient care and more Know how to manage your diabetes through Clemson, Extension, Prisma Health education programs Newest cohort of Roy Professors to focus on health care provider wellbeing, opioid addiction, microbial infections Clemson School of Health Research appoints new Faculty Scholars Better Together That’s the hallmark of a bold partnership between Clemson University and health care systems that has created the Clemson University School of Health Research (CUSHR), a multidisciplinary unit of Clemson that facilitates health research and scholarship. Clemson has collaborated with Furman University, the Greenwood Genetic Center, the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC), Prisma Health, and the University of South Carolina School of Medicine Greenville. Through these partnerships, Clemson brings a wealth of research and educational expertise, and the health care systems offer the clinical opportunities students and researchers need to put their ideas into action. The result? Breakthroughs in health care delivery, access and affordability that make a difference in the doctor’s office, the operating room, and beyond. Become a CUSHR Faculty Fellow The Clemson University School of Health Research is looking for its next cohort of Faculty Fellows. These fellows are tenure-track faculty members who are embedded in a Prisma Health department for a spring semester and summer in order to produce health-related scholarship. Through this opportunity, the Fellow shifts focus from regular teaching duties to developing a comprehensive research agenda with their host clinical department, and serving as a bridge to additional collaborative research. Applications are due to cushr@clemson.edu by July 15, 2022. Downlaod the application. Faculty members with inquiries should contact Thomas Britt at TWbritt@clemson.edu, with any questions. HSC Seed Grants Awarded Congratulations to the researchers who were awarded HSC Seed Grants. Click here to see a complete list of recipients and their projects. Events AVS One Health Research Group Dr. Jeryl Jones, Professor of Animal and Veterinary Sciences and CUSHR Scholar, is leading an AVS One Health Research Group. Zoom meetings are currently scheduled on the second Friday of every month at 10 a.m. One Health has been defined by the CDC as collaborative, multisectoral, and transdisciplinary approaches—working at the local, regional, national, and global levels—with the goal of achieving optimal health outcomes recognizing the interconnection between people, animals, plants, and their shared environment. Here is a link to see the AVS One Health Research Group objectives and team members, many of whom are current CUSHR Faculty Scholars and health researchers. This group is currently co-sponsored by the SC TRIMH and SC BioCRAFT Centers, applying this One Health approach in the following areas: Antimicrobial resistance mitigation Comparative Medicine/Translational Research Zoonotic Diseases Disaster preparedness and response Food Safety and Security Human - Animal bond Education and training of the next generation of One Health professionals Welfare/Well-being of animals Should you be interested in collaborating on this multidisciplinary team, please reach out to Dr. Jones (jerylj@clemson.edu). For more information regarding local health research events, check out our Events page. COVID-19 Research Resources Click here for Clemson University research resources during the COVID-19 outbreak. Click here to view a list of Clemson researchers and their expertise to assist others in finding collaborators and building teams to apply for the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act and other funding. Catch up on the latest news in the CUSHR Updates and Announcements. Home Leadership CUSHR Faculty CU-Prisma Health Partnership COVID-19 Research Events In The News Healthy SC Make a Gift Contact Us Related Links CU-MUSC Partnership CU-HSSC Partnership Clemson University Center for Human Genetics College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Prisma Health–Upstate Research SC-TRIMH Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram