Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Real Estate Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Real Estate Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Real Estate Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Real Estate Develop an in-depth understanding of the real estate market from both inside and outside the classroom with the Graduate Certificate in Real Estate in Temple’s Fox School of Business and Management. This 12-credit graduate certificate—offered entirely online—will prepare you to become a leader in the industry through understanding asset management, development and development impact, optimization, and valuation. A virtual program that attracts professionals from around the world, the Graduate Certificate in Real Estate will not only aid you in acquiring skills in the use of current and future technologies, it will help you create a pathway to obtaining a master’s degree. The Real Estate Graduate Certificate is intended to develop the next generation of real estate professionals who are passionate about building more diversity and inclusion into our communities. Learn how real estate can optimize human capital and deliver social impact through development, environmental stewardship and sustainability, finance, infrastructure, innovation, place-making, shared wealth creation, and valuation. The online delivery and flexible nature of this certificate also makes it ideal for working professionals as well as business and government leaders seeking to expand their skill sets and gain access to networking opportunities. Program Format & Curriculum The Real Estate Graduate Certificate’s curriculum is composed of four three-credit courses and is offered completely online. Courses are five-week modules, completed alongside students in the Master of Science in Real Estate and MBA programs. Courses you may take as part of the Real Estate Certificate (Graduate) program include Affordable Housing Development and Finance, Enterprise Real Estate Asset Optimization, and Real Estate Law and Practice. For questions regarding the program’s curriculum, please contact David Wilk, assistant professor of practice in the Department of Finance. Email: david.wilk@temple.edu Experiential Learning and Translational Research Students in the program will be joining an experiential learning environment focused on the core values of community engagement, social impact and transformation. Current research initiatives and experiential learning opportunities within both our Bachelor of Business Administration in Real Estate and Graduate Certificate in Real Estate include the following. “Acres of Diamonds” innovation district CityLab, social entrepreneurship and infrastructure programs Enterprise real estate asset optimization app Placemaking North Philly through a “market story” of social equity and inclusion Temple Fox RE Investment Fund Due to the nature of the Real Estate Graduate Certificate’s online delivery, students are also encouraged to explore real estate solutions and research initiatives in their own geographic area. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Business Analytics MS Financial Analysis MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Graduate Certificate in Real Estate, please contact David Wilk, assistant professor of practice in the Department of Finance. Email: david.wilk@temple.edu Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-RE-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. School/College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Real Estate Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info