Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research DEI Initiatives Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate PhD in Clinical Psychology About the Program Welcoming Diversity Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Program Announcements Clinical Alumni News PhD in Experimental Psychology About the ProgramExperimental FacultyCognitiveBehavioral NeuroscienceRequired CoursesAdmissionFinancial Support PhD in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyHistorical StatementFinancial SupportProgram Philosophy and Training ModelProgram CompetenciesSchool Psychology Doctoral HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationChild & Family Studies Research Group MA/Ed.S. in School Psychology About the ProgramsProgram OverviewSchool FacultyM.A./Ed.S. Program GoalsHistorical StatementFinancial SupportSchool Psychology MA/ED.S. HandbookSchool Psychology AssociationWhat is a School Psychologist?Child & Family Studies Research Group Masters in General Psychology About the ProgramProgram GoalsRequired CoursesAdmission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for ApplyingApply Now Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCCGSCC Concerns/ComplaintsGSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Take Action Psychology Advanced Degrees Academic Advising & Resource Center (AARC) The Psychological Services Center Teaching Take-Out Facebook Home Department of Psychology Graduate Clinical Psychology Program - Psychotherapy Research Concentration Clinical Psychology Program - Psychotherapy Research Concentration Jeffrey S. Berman Director Phone: (901) 678-2974 Office: 354 Throughout its history as a discipline, clinical psychology has been closely associated with research on psychotherapy. This tradition of the scientific study of psychological disorder and training in psychotherapy research and practice continues at the University of Memphis. A special feature of our clinical program is this designated research area involving students and faculty in the pursuit of psychotherapeutic acumen and expertise. Faculty and students in the Psychotherapy Research area collaborate to examine elements of psychotherapy that lead to a greater understanding of the workings of the personal change process. Participants in the Psychotherapy Research area are committed to improving understanding of psychotherapy process and outcome using a range of quantitative and qualitative methods. They study both the experience of psychological distress and the enhancement of human potential. Psychotherapy research projects being pursued by research teams focus on positive and negative treatment outcome, psychotherapy process, the workings of narrative processes and silence in psychotherapy, significant therapy moments for therapists and clients, differences in clients' and therapists' experiences of therapy, the role of between-session homework in improvement, and interventions for for traumatized and bereaved people, among other topics. In addition to these broad interests, a number of faculty and students share a particular focus on constructivist, experiential, and cognitive therapies, offering advanced training in these areas. Graduate students in this specialty are encouraged to develop competencies as psychotherapists as well as clinical researchers through enhanced coursework in applied as well as scientific aspects of clinical psychology. The program is structured so that students' research and clinical skills augment one another to produce clinicians who can integrate outcome research into their practice and researchers with a greater sensitivity to psychotherapy process. To this end, students are expected to establish a close mentoring relationship with a faculty member in the area as they develop their unique research interests. Meeting Schedule The Psychotherapy Research area has limited meeting space. If you are interested in attending, please contact Dr. Berman for more information. Faculty Primary Affiliates Jeffrey S. Berman, Ph.D. J. Gayle Beck, Ph.D. Meghan McDevitt-Murphy, Ph.D. Secondary Affiliates Andrew Meyers, Ph.D. (Emeritus) James G. Murphy, Ph.D. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.