COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Technology Corrective Action Strateg Section Menu Accessibility at Wichita State University The Accessibility Committee Accessibility Report 2020 Accessibility For Face To Face Instruction Accessibility for Online Instruction Accessibility Training WSU Technology Audit Request Form EIT Corrective Action Strategy WSU Technology Corrective Action Strategy PDFs At WSU Looking Ahead Report an Accessibility Problem Resources and Links Faculty Senate Statement on Accessibility Accessibility Exceptions Is this Accessible? Accessibility FAQ Aira Access Accessible Publisher Software Accessibility Review Requests Aira Access at Wichita State Accessibility and Covid-19 Accessibility Report 2020 Instructor Accessibility Checklist Wichita State University entered into an agreement with the National Federation of the Blind (NFB) in 2016. Pursuant to that agreement, the University audited all electronic and information technology (EIT) in July 2017. After the audit, the University met one-on-one with each stakeholder that had areas that needed improvement. Together, several goals were set forth, including: For externally purchased or procured EIT, the responsible campus offices will contact vendors and explain the terms of the University’s agreement with the NFB. If Vendors are not able to ensure the accessibility of their products by July 29, 2020, the University will seek vendors with products that are accessible. For internally developed EIT or any tools that the University controls, the responsible parties will update their software to fully meet the standards listed in the agreement as identified by the audit. Going forward, the University will continue to investigate multiple solutions for new and existing EIT. The EIT audit will be considered an ongoing process and technologies will continue to be reviewed as we procure them. Existing EIT will be re-audited annually in July of each year. For more information, please contact John Jones, interim Accessibility Coordinator. To report technology that should be reviewed/added to the audit if it has not already been reviewed, complete this audit request form. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©