Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Provost Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost Prospective Faculty About Lubbock Lubbock is a safe, diverse city with a population of about 320,000. Lubbock's population is projected to grow seven percent through 2022. New students at Texas Tech are told “if you can't find something to do, something that interests you, then you're just not looking.” The same is true of Lubbock. Lubbock is home to a vibrant arts and music scene. The employment and business climate is strong. The cost of living is low. Housing is affordable and a number of public school districts and private schools in Lubbock County offer excellent education opportunities. The cost of living in Lubbock is attractive. According to the Lubbock Economic Development Alliance, is well below the national average ranking 41st out of 308 urban areas int he nation and 11th out of 34 urban areas in Texas. There is no state income tax in Texas. Lubbock is a growing, dynamic city that easily mixes its western heritage and agricultural roots with high-tech education and health care. Cotton may still be king, the region around Lubbock produces 64% of the state's cotton crop, but it is the city's arts district that shines the first Friday of every month. Named for Thomas S. Lubbock, a former Texas Ranger, Lubbock was established in 1890. It is known as the Hub City for its central location, at the intersection of Interstate 27 and four major U.S. highways, making it a retail, business and medical hub for the region. Lubbock sits at 3,200 feet above sea level in the heart of the Llano Estacado on the South Plains of Texas. The city has a mild climate with predominately warm days and cool nights throughout the year. Summers are hot, but the humidity is relatively low. Winters are sunny and mostly mild, but there are periods of cold and snow. While Lubbock has only been a town since 1890, the area has been the site of continuous population for more than 12,000 years. The Lubbock Lake Landmark, a part of the Museum of Texas Tech University, is a world-renowned archeological site that provides the documented proof of constant habitation from about 4,000 B.C. <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> More about Lubbock Lubbock Chamber of Commerce Lubbock Economic Development Alliance Lubbock Arts Alliance First Friday Art Trail City of Lubbock Lubbock County History of Lubbock Lubbock at a glance Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the Provost Address 104 Administration Building, Box 42019, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.2184 Email provost.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 24, 2021 8:45 AM Office of the Provost About Office of the Provost About Back Provost Communications Leadership Office of the Provost About Leadership Back Meet the Provost Staff Directory Individual College Administration University Strategic Plan Academic Calendar Office of the Provost About Academic Calendar Back Provost Planning Calendar New Faculty Bios Academic Affairs Office of the Provost Academic Affairs Back Academic Affairs Provost Units COACHE Faculty Job Satisfaction Institutional Effectiveness Councils, Committees, Centers & Institutions Professional Licensure Faculty Resources Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Back Policies Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Policies Back Tenure & Promotion Tenure & Promotion FAQs Faculty Handbook Operating Policies & Procedures Required & Optional Language for Syllabi Curriculum Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Curriculum Back Core and Multicultural Curriculum Writing Intensive Requirement Lab Science Requirement Curricular Proposals Communication Literacy Academic Program Terminology Prospective Faculty Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Prospective Faculty Back Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Faculty Enrichment Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Faculty Enrichment Back 2020-2022 Facult Convocation Program President's Excellence in Teaching Professorship President's Excellence in Research Professorship Big XII Faculty Fellowships Faculty Award Incentives & Recognition Integrated Scholars Spring 2020 Report of the Faculty Success Task Force Faculty Success Initiative Faculty Ombudsperson For Department Chairs/School Directors Campus Climate Initiatives Office of the Provost Initiatives Back Worldwide eLearning Success & Retention Outreach & Engagement OnRamps Dual Enrollment Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Faculty Success Signature Educational Experiences Office of the Provost Signature Educational Experiences Back Pi Squared: Program in Inquiry and Investigative Thinking Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index