Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Information Science and Technology MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Information Science and Technology MS Apply Request More Info Information Science and Technology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Information Science and Technology MS Gain a foundation in current computing technology, and learn how to apply these skills to solve complex business and engineering problems through Temple’s Information Science and Technology Master of Science program. Students in this graduate program will learn how to apply advanced software systems, database technologies and networks to modeling and simulating real-world data structures and processes. Coursework exposes you to business process modelling and analysis, databases, emerging technologies, fundamental system software and networking concepts, implementation and quality assurance, and project management. Like all programs in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences at Temple, the Information Science and Technology MS emphasizes a combination of theory and practice. In addition, a blend of computing and leadership skills makes this program unique: Students develop strong communication skills as well as learning analysis and problem solving. The program has a strong interdisciplinary dimension, and students may take up to three graduate courses related to Information Science and Technology in other departments. Classes & Curriculum Classes are offered in the evening on a part- or full-time basis. Concepts covered in coursework and research include advanced software engineering methods, bioinformatics, cryptology, database technologies, digital forensics, high-performance computing, information security and assurance, robotics, and wireless sensor networks. You will also learn about process re-engineering and gather the skills to design and implement robust web and mobile applications to support these processes. Learn more about Information Science and Technology MS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Computer and Information Science PhD Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Information Science and Technology Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Chin Tan is the graduate chair and faculty advisor for the program. Phone: 215-204-6437 Email: chin.tan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-IST-MS Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Information Science and Technology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info