Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College of Business & Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty & Staff Research News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Student Services Are you considering a business degree? Need to make an appointment with your advisor? Contact the Undergraduate Student Services Office today. Executives in Residence Attention FCBE Students! Connect with accomplished, C-suite professionals for exclusive mentorship opportunities and professional training. Executive Training Workshops Seeking professional development opportunities to maximize your potential and increase your relevance in today's business environment? Sign up for our Executive Training Workshops, designed specifically for working professionals. FCBE News & Events Keep up with what’s going on at FCBE. Check out our latest news and upcoming events. Support Fogelman College Learn about the many ways that you can help to support the Fogelman College. Complete Professional Program Have you earned your stripes? Learn how through the Complete Professional Program. PreviousNext Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Apply to our Masters Programs Apply to our Doctoral Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Fogelman College of Business & Economics Business College for Your Business Career The Fogelman College of Business & Economics (FCBE) is an AACSB accredited institution comprising six departments – Crews School of Accountancy; Business Information and Technology; Economics; Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate; Management; and Marketing and Supply Chain Management. The college offers a range of academic programs at all levels – professional certificates, undergraduate, masters, and Ph.D. A Relevant Education Memphis is home to several of America's greatest companies, and the Fogelman College takes maximum advantage of the Memphis metropolitan environment. As the city's largest university with the largest business school, the University of Memphis is proud to be home to the Fogelman College of Business and Economics - the business school for the City of Memphis. Students are regularly provided opportunities to interact with the business community through real-world, relevant, and important projects and internships. The FCBE offers state-of-the-art facilities including a facsimile of a Wall Street trading firm, the Cook Analytics and Trading Lab. The Cook Lab is a cutting-edge technology and data center that provides the opportunity for students to experience pragmatic, hands-on learning in an academic environment. We also have the Customer NeuroInsights Research Lab (C-NRL), a behavioral research and teaching facility founded in 2013. C-NRL features a wide range of technologies and methods associated with consumer neuroscience, including EEG, eye tracking, automated facial expression recognition, GSR, pupilometry, heart rate and heart rate variability (HR/HRV), and implicit testing. By combining the wealth of real-world experience available at the FCBE and in Memphis with a philosophy geared toward making students more marketable to employers, the result is a group of exceptional graduates who can compete with the best and the brightest, not only in Memphis, but across the globe. At the Fogelman College we also differentiate ourselves by providing a unique Complete Professional Program that holistically prepares students to achieve both personal and professional excellence. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, the FCBE provides training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, interview skills, professionalism, philanthropic activities, and more. Students have the opportunity to earn a certificate documenting their completion of the program. An MBA can take Your Career to the Next Level We are also proud to distinguish ourselves based on the development of our MBA students. The Fogelman College offers nationally ranked MBA programs, online and on campus, suited for today's professionals who are conscious of time, money and advancing their careers. Executives in Residence Attention all business students! We are pleased to announce the launch of our Executives in Residence program. This is an extraordinary resource that will personally connect you with accomplished, seasoned industry professionals across a broad range of industries. Their contemporary perspectives will enrich your academic experience by not only expanding your career opportunities, but your business acumen and professional network. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/24/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.