Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Videos Invested in Your Education At UCF Online, we’re passionate about delivering high-quality education and support for our fully online students throughout their online educational journey. Explore interviews with past and present UCF Online students, faculty, and our success coaches through the following short UCF Online videos. Each of the following videos aims to give you a better understanding of how we work alongside our students to ensure they are ready for success during their time at UCF and beyond. Skip to Section Student and Coach Stories UCF Online: My Why “My Why” follows Tracey Watson, a young woman from a small Central Florida town who, with the help of UCF Online, was able to raise her daughter as a single mother and complete her long journey through higher education. UCF Online Coach Interview | Episode 1 What does it mean to have a success coach? UCF Online Alumna Courtney Moody speaks with UCF Online Director of Student Coaching Joanie Sather about what success coaching is and how it benefits our students. UCF Online Student Interview Series | Episode 2 What resources should every UCF Online student know about? UCF Online Alumna Courtney Moody speaks with UCF Online Success Coach Jennifer Gonzalez about how learning online can be beneficial and what success coaches do to support you throughout our journey. UCF Online Student Interview Series | Episode 3 What’s the first question a success coach would ask if they were in your shoes? UCF Online Alumna Courtney Moody speaks with UCF Online Success Coach Monique Carter about how students can benefit from connecting with their UCF Online success coach. UCF Online Student Interview Series | Episode 1 “Ever wondered what it’s like to be a fully online student? UCF Online Success Coach speaks to UCF Online student Joshua Thompson about his experience and favorite part of being a #UCFKnight! UCF Online Coach Interview Series | Episode 2 Considering earning your graduate degree fully online and want to know a bit about the experience? UCF Online Success Coach Renee Montogomery speaks to UCF Online student John Mulcahy about his journey to earning his Research Administration, MRA and being a #UCFKnight! UCF Online Coach Interview Series | Episode 3 How can you stay connected while learning fully online? UCF Online Success Coach Monique Carter speaks to UCF Alumnus Jean Robensen Pierre about his experience pursing his bachelor’s degree and what set #UCFOnline apart from other schools. UCF Online Student Interview Series | Episode 4 How can you stay connected while learning fully online? UCF Online Success Coach Jennifer Gonzalez speaks to UCF Alumnus Karen Gonzalez about their connection as student and coach. Online Learning Tips & Advice UCF Online Connect Center Wondering what the Connect Center it’s Connect Center do for you? Hear from some of our coaches about the services they offer and how they are here to help you succeed. Getting Started with Online Learning Wondering where to start with your online course? Learn about getting started with online learning. Time Management Tips From Students How often should I check my course online? The fifth video of student testimonials for the Knights Online student success project. Making Connections Looking to connect with other students and your instructor? Learn about the different ways you will intereact with your peers and faculty. Online Course Success Tips From Students Explore these great tips from other online students on how to succeed in your online courses. Resources for Online Success Learn about the resources available to help you succeed in your online courses.. Challenges in Online Courses Learn about different challenges you may face in online courses and how to overcome them. #ICYMI #ICYMI | Episode 1 Congratulations on starting your journey as a #UCFKnight! Director of Student Coaching Joanie Sather shares all of the information you need to know, in case you missed it! . #ICYMI | Episode 2 Director of Student Coaching Joanie Sather shares some tips for keeping yourself motivated, in case you missed it! Information Sessions Transfer to UCF Online Info Session Considering transferring to UCF Online to finish your bachelor’s degree? UCF Success Coaches Shannon Harmon and Johanny Santana explore the transfer options and answer questions about transferring you UCF Online. Graduate Info Session Considering a graduate degree from UCF Online? UCF Success Coaches Shannon Harmon and Johanny Santana explore the graduate admissions process and answer questions about becoming a graduate student through UCF Online. Program Highlights Meet Our MSW Program Director Interested in earning your Master of Social Work fully online? Program Director Shellene Mazany, LCSW, MSW welcomes you to learn more about the fully online program at UCF. Meet Our HCI Program Director Interested in earning your Master of Science in Healthcare Informatics? Program Director Varadraj Gurupur, Ph.D. welcomes you to learn more about the fully online program at UCF. Get the online degree you want. UCF Online has fully online programs that include bachelor’s degrees, master’s degrees, graduate certificates and doctorates, plus a talented team of student success coaches to help find what’s right for you. Or Browse By: All Programs Fastest Growing Majors* Fastest Growing Majors* Legal Studies, BA/BS Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Communication and Conflict, BA Psychology, BS Master of Public Administration, MPA Master of Social Work Online MSW Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Executive Master of Health Administration, EMHA Crime Analysis Event Management *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida