Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News Winners Announced for Baylor Law’s Second Annual National Transactional Law Competition, <i>The Closer</i> January 15, 2018 Winners Announced for Baylor Law's Second Annual National Transactional Law Competition, The Closer Rachel Ross from the University of San Diego School of Law negotiates contract terms during Baylor Law's Second Annual The Closer National Transactional Law Competition. WACO, Texas - On January 11-14, students from ten of the most accomplished transactional law programs in the country gathered at Baylor Law to participate in the 2018 Transactional Law competition: The Closer. The Nation's Most Challenging Transactional Law Competition The Closer winners Ericha Penzien from the American University, Washington College of Law and Brian K. Adams from the University of Tennessee College of Law, with Baylor Law Professor Elizabeth Miller, creator of The Closer. Ryan Genkin, Northwestern University, Pritzker School of Law Marcela Dye, University of Colorado Law School Anthony Veveakis, Indiana University Bloomington, Maurer School of Law Victoria Chang, University of Texas School of Law. Steve Zavodnick, University of Georgia School of Law. Brian K. Adams, Jr. from the University of Tennessee College of Law and Ericha Penzien from American University, Washington College of Law are this year's winners of The Closer, the nation's most challenging transactional law competition. This is the second consecutive year that a student from the University of Tennessee College of Law has taken a top spot in The Closer. The Closer is an invitation-only competition open to schools that have excelled at past National Transactional LawMeets®. Students from participating schools vied to win one of two $5,000 top prizes and bragging rights as a top closer. The annual competition, another example of Baylor Law's commitment to training practice-ready attorneys, provides hands-on exposure to one of the most important aspects of corporate law: contract markup and negotiation. The Closer competition is unique in that the details of the contract that participants will need to negotiate are only disclosed twenty-four hours prior to the first round of negotiations. The tight timeline forces competitors to identify the legal issues and devise and negotiate solutions that best serve their client's particular needs with the efficiency required of lawyers under realistic time constraints. In this year's competition, participants negotiated a hypothetical loan agreement between Waco Hippodrome, Inc. (owner of the Waco Hippodrome Theatre, a beautiful historic theater in downtown Waco that operates as a multi-purpose entertainment venue) and Theater Funding, LLC, a fictional niche lender proposing to refinance the Hippodrome Theatre's loan. During the competition, participants made a site visit to the Waco Hippodrome Theatre, held a meeting with their client, and reviewed a large client file, including digital correspondence, drafts of the loan agreement, research, phone notes, and other relevant information in an effort to reach a final contract that was agreeable to both parties. Through a series of 40-minute rounds of negotiations in front of experienced transactional lawyers, competitors are judged on their presence and professionalism, knowledge of legal and financial issues, and their efficacy in finding creative solutions to reach an agreement that satisfies their client's objectives while under strict time constraints. Keeping pressure on the competitors, breaking developments and new information from their clients are introduced to the finalists on the night before the final round. Runner-up for Waco Hippodrome was Ryan Cordsen from the University of Denver, Sturm College of Law and the runner-up for Theater Funding was Roy Smith from the University of Mississippi School of Law. Roy Smith was also chosen, by his fellow competitors, as the winner of the Professionalism Award. Runner-up Ryan Cordsen from the University of Denver, Sturm College of Law negotiates during the final round. Roy Smith from the University of Mississippi School of Law finished as a runner-up and the winner of the Professionalism Award. Closing the Deal Ericha Penzien, American University, Washington College of Law Brian K. Adams from the University of Tennessee College of Law The final round judges with Associate Dean Leah Teague, Professor Miller, and the competition winners and finalists. Brian K. Adams, Jr., was awarded the $5,000 top prize for representing the interests of Waco Hippodrome and Ericha Penzien was awarded $5,000 for representing Theater Funding. "Professor Miller and all of the organizers cared about the competitors and [made] this a very real transactional experience; something that we would experience in the real world," commented Ericha Penzien who added "I'm just so appreciative to Professor Miller and everyone here at Baylor University for this opportunity. I think I've learned a lot throughout the competition and it was a rewarding experience for me." "It's a tremendous blessing- I've been nothing but impressed with the Baylor Law staff and everybody that has contributed […] I'm really grateful for the opportunity," stated Brian K. Adams, Jr. and added, when asked what most stood out for him: "The level of competition from my peers… we had people from all over the country, I felt that all were well-deserving of the award and just the opportunity to compete with them and learn from them was a tremendous opportunity and it's something I look forward to carrying with me in my career." "I was fortunate to be able to judge for The Closer competition. The quality of the format, problem and competitors was very impressive. The problem was very "real life" in that it provided at least 5 hours of negotiating material, however the students were charged with prioritizing their discussion points within a shorter time frame. Often in the real world you are pressed on time," stated Scott Wallace, Executive Partner of the Dallas Office of Holland & Knight LLP, and one of the judges of the negotiation rounds for the 2018 competition. "The students were extremely well prepared and had learned a lot in negotiating skills. I was so impressed with the competitors and we plan to interview one of them for a summer clerkship position with our firm. The skills these students are learning and developing are what will make them more valuable in the marketplace - initially in the search for their first job and further into their career." Final Round JUDGES SCORING THE FINAL ROUNDS WERE: Steve Bolden, Shareholder, Mahomes Bolden PC Glenn Callison, Shareholder, Munsch Hardt Kopf & Harr, P.C. Janice Davis, Partner, Bracewell LLP Jennifer Lindsey, Partner, Beard Kultgen Brophy Bostwick & Dickson, PLLC Greg Looser, Co-Founder, Partner and Director of Clarion Offshore Partners, LLC, a partnership formed with The Blackstone Group BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL SINCERELY APPRECIATES THOSE WHO INVESTED IN THE CLOSER: Underwriters Kim and Bill Shaddock Munsch Hardt Kopf & Harr, P.C. Sponsors Law Office of Mark D. Foster J. Michael Tibbals/Freeman Mills PC Special thanks Waco Hippodrome Theatre Scanes & Routh, LLP Baylor Law faculty, staff, and students who contributed their time and talents to make The Closer a success 2018 PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND COMPETITORS American University, Washington College of Law - Ericha Penzien Indiana University Bloomington, Maurer School of Law - Anthony Veveakis Northwestern University, Pritzker School of Law - Ryan Genkin University of Colorado Law School - Marcela Dye University of Denver, Sturm College of Law - Ryan Cordsen University of Georgia School of Law - Steve Zavodnick University of Mississippi School of Law - Roy Smith University of San Diego School of Law - Rachel Ross University of Tennessee College of Law - Brian K. Adams, Jr. University of Texas School of Law - Victoria Chang Click here to view more photos from this year's The Closer For more information about the competition, visit The Closer on Baylor Law School's website, or contact competition coordinator Professor Elizabeth Miller. UNDERWRITTEN BY SPONSORED BY SPECIAL THANKS TO MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 PHOTOS: Nick Teixeira, Baylor Law School ABOUT BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL Established in 1857, Baylor Law School was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,400 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law School has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. The Law School boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature, among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as #3 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked #51 in the magazine's 2018 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution, characterized as having "high research activity" by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The University provides a vibrant campus community for approximately 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Baylor sponsors 19 D1 varsity athletic teams and is a founding member of the Big XII Conference. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School