Skip Navigation and Go To Content UTHealth - Houston's Health University Menu UTHealth - Houston's Health University SCHOOLS Cizik School of Nursing McGovern Medical School MD Anderson UTHealth Graduate School School of Biomedical Informatics School of Dentistry School of Public Health STUDENTS Prospective Students Academics Admissions Catalogs Degrees Offered Financial Information International Students Tuition and Fees CARES Act Compliance Life at UTHealth About Houston Mental Health Resources Recreation Facility Student Governance Texas Medical Center Transportation University Housing Current Students Academic Calendars Bursar's Office Calendar Campus Maps Campus Libraries Canvas Financial Services MyUTHSecured Page Student Portal Connect to the most sought after resources on campus! PATIENTS 713-486-4000 Find A Dentist The School of Dentistry offers a wide range of patient services through its student, graduate and faculty clinics. We welcome the opportunity to provide dental care for your entire family. 713-500-3267 Make An Appointment (UTHS) is a primary care provider and part of the faculty clinical practice of UTHealth Cizik School of Nursing. 1-888-4UT-DOCS Find Your Doctor The medical group practice of McGovern Medical School, UT Physicians has more than 2,000 clinicians certified in 80 medical specialties and subspecialties and provides multi-specialty care for the entire family. RESEARCH Overview Clinical Trials Committees Institutes and Centers Policies and Guidelines Programs and Services Professional Development New Investigator Development Program Visiting Scholars Program Research Training Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Clinical Trials Clinical trials have helped us to discover new treatments that make our lives better. Consider making an impact on health care by participating in a clinical trial. Learn more about clinical trials at UTHealth. GIVE Featured Donor We are fortunate to count on so many giving-hearted supporters, and we want to share some of their stories with you. We want to show you the courage, the determination, and the generosity of spirit that define their journeys with UTHealth. Read about our featured donor Philanthropy at UTHealth Give Now Many Faces. One Mission. Ways to Give Support Our Schools Alumni Resources Get Involved Impact Stories Connect with Us ABOUT CAREERS A-Z WEBMAIL INSIDE THE UNIVERSITYSecured Page Query Match Day 2022 Read more... Make your COVID-19 vaccine appointment today More information ... UTHealth Houston News Retired pharmacist with Huntington’s disease participates in clinical trials at UTHealth Houston Blood pressure medicine may lower frailty for older adults Resting state functional connectivity patterns as biomarkers for treatment in patients with depression School of Biomedical Informatics researchers develop AI-based COVID-19 predictive models Family raises money for Papanna’s lab after he saves their daughter’s life More News UTHealth Houston is on the front lines of COVID-19 Upcoming Events May 31 12:00 PM Webinar - Leveraging Existing Technology to Enhance Physical Activity in Inactive Predominantly Black and Latina Women Virtual Jun 05 2:00 PM Dallas Pride Parade Fair Park, Dallas TX Jun 07 4:00 PM Dissertation Proposal Defense by Sara Nofal, MD, MEd: Mammography Screening Behavior: A Machine Learning Approach Jun 14 3:00 PM Dissertation Defense by Esther Ngan, MS: Analysis Of Dynamic Changes of Stress Levels in Alzheimer’s Caregivers Using Non-homogene View Full Calendar Emergency Info Contact Us 7000 Fannin Street Houston, Texas 77030 713-500-4HSC 713-500-4472 The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston PO Box 20036 Houston, TX 77225-0036 Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Flickr Instagram Resources Open Records Site Policies Institutional Resume HUB Program Report Fraud, Waste and Abuse Report Sexual Misconduct Campus Carry CARES Act Compliance UT System State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Copyright 2008-Present The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth Houston)