Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Why the Morrissey College? About Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Why the Morrissey College? When students enter Boston College, they take the first steps on a journey of discovery—one that stimulates their intellectual, personal, ethical, and spiritual growth. Morrissey College programs ask students to learn about themselves, their communities, and the world, to search for truth wherever they go, and to use their talents to improve the lives of others. Those who seek an education that lasts a lifetime will find the challenge and support to build meaningful and fulfilling futures. Stokes Hall, completed in 2013, is a 183,000-square-foot building devoted to the humanities at Boston College. A Dynamic Liberal Arts Education Explore the range of disciplines that shape well-educated people prepared to thrive in the 21st century. A liberal arts education at Boston College develops valuable skills, including critical thinking, ethical decision-making, effective communication, and the capacity to see human experience from a range of perspectives. Intellectual Rigor Morrissey College challenges students to discover and achieve their full potential. Renowned faculty, innovative courses, and off-campus opportunities expand students’ knowledge and experience. Why Morrissey College? See for yourself The Core Curriculum The Core Curriculum provides a common intellectual foundation for undergraduates, and seeks to expand their horizons and promote the integration of knowledge, belief, and action. Learn more The Power of a Jesuit Education Boston College wants its students to connect their talents and strengths to the needs and opportunities of wider society through classes, curricula, and student formation efforts. Learn more For Boston Experience the excitement of America's college town. Boston is home to 35 institutions of higher education and more than 152,000 college students. Vibrant art, music, and sports scenes make Boston a dynamic backdrop for learning, living, and growing as a professional. An interdisciplinary approach A model of interdisciplinary education, BC's four-year Perspectives Program for undergraduates integrates the humanities and natural sciences. Perspectives Program Web site The Core Curriculum Our Core Curriculum exposes students to the works in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences that have influenced our world. Distinctive interdisciplinary core courses focus on the complex problems and enduring questions that have defined human history. Jesuit, Catholic Tradition Intellectual rigor, integrating knowledge, student formation, care for individuals, using our education in service to others—these Jesuit, Catholic values define the Boston College experience. More than 75% of students volunteer during their undergraduate years, including through the PULSE Program and a range of service opportunities. “I believe that what the world most needs from Boston College is for it to thrive as a leading research university that is distinguished by a commitment to rigorous and formative undergraduate liberal education—one that inspires depth of thought, creative imagination, and reflective discernment. Boston College should educate students who are well-prepared to live meaningful lives and vocations; men and women who are ready to take responsibility for promoting the common good and shaping a more just world.” Gregory Kalscheur, S.J., Dean, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Inquiry Across Disciplines Here, scholarly collaboration draws research and teaching beyond traditional disciplinary boundaries. The Core Curriculum, the Institute for the Liberal Arts, the upcoming Institue for Integrated Science and Society, and a variety of research projects bring together students and faculty from different areas of inquiry. The Benefits of Boston With more than 50 institutions of higher learning in metropolitan area, Boston is truly one of the preeminent college towns. It’s also a world-class city full of history, scientific and tech innovators, culture, and internship possibilities. Alumni Network Students benefit from the connections and support of the tight-knit and loyal network of nearly 180,000 Boston College alumni. The Liberal Arts Advantage A Boston College liberal arts education compels students to think and learn across disciplines, prepares graduates for a range of rewarding careers, and helps them discern who they want to be—and why. Learn more Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College