Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Current Fellows Jaqueline Contrera Avila Mentor: Jasjit Ahluwalia [email protected] Jaqueline Avila received her Ph.D. in Population Health Science from the University of Texas Medical Branch in 2020. Jaqueline’s focus is on how tobacco use and smoking cessation disparities impact health outcomes and health services utilization of vulnerable populations such as cancer survivors and racial-ethnic minorities in the U.S. using population-based studies and quantitative methods. Funded by the Center for Addiction & Disease Risk Exacerbation (CADRE) Benjamin Berey Mentors: Elizabeth Aston and Jane Metrik [email protected] Benjamin Berey received his Ph.D. in Health and Human Performance from the University of Florida in 2020. Ben’s research focuses on etiologic risk factors for substance use disorders, particularly AUD, using human laboratory alcohol administration paradigms to examine how individual differences in facets of impulsivity and subjective responses are related to heavy drinking and AUD risk. Funded by the NIAAA T32 Hannah Doucette Mentor: Nancy Barnett [email protected] Hannah Doucette received her Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from Northeastern University in 2020. Hannah’s research interests include the development of interventions for adolescents and young adults focused on substance use, dating violence, and sexual risk behavior. Funded by the NIAAA T32 Arryn Guy Mentor: Christopher Kahler [email protected] Arryn Guy received her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the Illinois Institute of Technology in 2020. Arryn’s research focuses on the translation of evidence-based behavioral health interventions from testing to implementation using community-engaged research methods, with the ultimate goal of increasing rates of HIV viral suppression and reducing HIV-related comorbidities among racial/ethnic and sexual/gender minorities. Funded by the Adolescent/Young Adult Biobehavioral HIV T32 at Rhode Island Hospital Michelle Haikalis Mentors: Nancy Barnett and Lindsay Orchowski [email protected] Michelle Haikalis received her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Nebraska – Lincoln in 2019. Michelle is dedicated to studying the intersection of alcohol use and sexual violence through the use of laboratory, naturalistic, self-report and qualitative methodologies. Funded by the NIAAA T32 Gabriela López Mentors: Jennifer Merrill and Lindsay Orchowski [email protected] Gabriela López received her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of New Mexico in 2020. Gaby’s work focuses on the intersection of alcohol use and sexual victimization among sexual and racial/ethnic minority women. Funded by the NIAAA T32 Dale Dagar Maglalang Mentor: Jasjit S. Ahluwalia [email protected] Dale Dagar Maglalang (he/they) received his PhD in Social Work from Boston College. Dale’s research examines the social, cultural, and structural factors (e.g., racism and other forms of oppression) that influence smoking among Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC), immigrant, and care worker populations. Furthermore, Dale is interested in integrating anti-racist frameworks and mobile health (mHealth) technology in health behavior interventions. Funded by the Center for Addiction & Disease Risk Exacerbation (CADRE) Kayleigh McCarty Mentor: Jane Metrik [email protected] Kayleigh McCarty received her Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Missouri-Columbia in 2021. Kayleigh’s research interests include using quantitative methods to examine the role of decision making in substance-related risk-taking behaviors. Funded by the NIDA T32 Samuel Meisel Mentor: Robert Miranda [email protected] Samuel Meisel received his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Buffalo (SUNY) in 2020. Sam’s research takes a bio-ecological approach to study the initiation, escalation, and treatment of adolescent substance use, particularly in the social relationships of youth in substance use treatment. Funded by a NIAAA F32 Jamie Parnes Mentors: Robert Miranda, Hayley Treloar-Padovano, Anthony Spirito [email protected] Jamie Parnes received his Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from Colorado State University. Jamie's research focuses on identifying treatment mechanisms and moderators for adolescent substance use concerns, particularly related to cannabis use. Additionally, he is interested in examining how identities (e.g., LGBTQ+) relate to substance use outcomes to improve treatment for underserved populations. Funded by a NIDA F32. Samantha Portis Mentor: Carolina Haass-Koffler [email protected] Samantha Portis received her Ph.D. in Medical Sciences with a concentration in Neuorscience from the University of South Florida in 2020. Samantha’s research will explore the impact of chronic alcohol misuse on neurogenesis and cognitive function in an aging population and the potential rescue effects of a nutraceutical. Funded by the NIAAA T32 L. Morgan Snell Mentor: Jennifer Tidey [email protected] L. Morgan Snell received her Ph.D. in Healthcare Policy and Research from Virginia Commonwealth University in 2020. Morgan uses behavioral economic methods to investigate tobacco and substance use disparities, and focuses on evaluating the intended and unintended effects of tobacco, substance use, and behavioral health policies. Funded by the NIDA T32 David G. Zelaya Mentor: Christopher Kahler [email protected] David Zelaya received his Ph.D. in Counseling Psychology from Georgia State University in 2019. David’s research focuses on examining health disparities, from an intersectionality and minority stress lens, among BIPOC (with an emphasis on Latinx communities) and Queer communities. Clinically, he is interested in providing culturally competent behavioral health services to vulnerable populations (e.g., Spanish-speaking Latinx people). Funded by the Alcohol Research Center on HIV (ARCH) Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top