Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research & Innovation Menu Search TTU Research Home Protected Key Research Intelligence and Funding Opportunities Most of the listed funding opportunities are shared with the Office of Research Development & Communications by Lewis-Burke Associates, LLC, TTU's federal affairs consulting firm located in Washington D.C., as a way to keep TTU up to date on opportunities relevant to TTU priorities. You will find Lewis-Burke's analysis of the opportunities in the More Information link for each opportunity. This webpage does not list all agency opportunities available. More funding opportunities can be found through the links below or by searching the agency website. Department of Commerce (DOC) NTIA Releases Connecting Minority Communities Program Solicitation The U. S. Department of Commerce (DOC) National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) released a notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) for the Connecting Minority Communities (CMC) Pilot Program. The CMC Pilot Program provides new federal funding to eligible recipients seeking to expand remote learning opportunities, stimulate economic development, create employment and entrepreneurship opportunities, and advance broadband access within eligible institutions and their surrounding communities. The CMC Pilot Program aims to directly address the lack of broadband access, connectivity, and equity that impacts Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), Minority Business Enterprises (MBEs), and the communities they operate in. Deadline: Applications must be submitted by 11:59 Pm ET on December 1,2021 More information here. Final Solicitations for American Rescue Plan Programs The U.S. Department of Commerce's (DOC) Economic Development Administration (EDA) announced six Notices of Funding Opportunity (NOFOs) under the Investing in America's Communities (IAC) program, which is supported by the $3 billion EDA received under the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). The ultimate goals of the IAC NOFOs are to create new jobs and stimulate inclusive economic growth that will revitalize regions for years to come. Deadline: varies More information here. Department of Defense (DOD) FY 2023 Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) BAA The Department of Defense (DOD) released a broad agency announcement (BAA) for the fiscal year (FY) 2023 Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI). Initiated over 25 years ago, MURI remains one of the most popular programs among researchers at institutions of higher education and stands as the benchmark for building a defense-oriented research capability on campus. With the goal of understanding and achieving revolutionary breakthroughs on behalf of the warfighter, each MURI program is managed closely by a program manager from one of the Services supporting high-risk basic research in science, economic growth, and military technology. The Army, Navy, and Air Force basic research offices have released 24 topics this year. Like previous years, the FY 2023 topics have an emphasis on materials and quantum sciences, but also a focus on issues related to climate. Deadline: White papers are due May 16, 2022. Full proposals are due on September 9, 2022 Young Faculty Award The (FY) 2022 Young Faculty Award (YFA) program. This program seeks to identify and support “rising stars in junior research positions” at higher education and non-profit institutions. DARPA especially hopes to engage with researchers who have no prior DARPA funding, to expose them to DARPA's mission and critical DOD needs. The ultimate goal of the YFA program is to train the next generation of researchers in pressing national security issues to advance the capacity of DOD to address these issues. Deadlines: Executive Summary due November 4, 2021 Full Proposals Due January 25, 2022 The full solicitation can be found at www.grants.gov under the solicitation “DARPA-RA-21-03” or on sam.gov. More information here. 2022 Young Investigator Program The ONR Young Investigator Program (YIP) seeks to support the careers of newly tenured researchers who have the potential for conducting innovative and creative research. YIP empowers scientists and engineers in their first or second tenures who have received a PhD on or after January 2014. Proposals should address ONR's research areas, which can be found here. Less than 10 percent of applicants receive a YIP award, so proposers are strongly encouraged to contact an ONR Program Officer closely aligned to their research goals to discuss their proposal before submission. A list of ONR's Program Managers and their associated research areas can be found here. Applicants may submit informal pre-proposals to facilitate these conversations, but this is not required. Deadline: October 29, 2021 FY 2021 Department of Navy (DON) Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Institutions (HBCU/MI) Program The Office of Naval Research (ONR) released a funding opportunity announcement (FOA) for the fiscal year (FY) 2021 Department of Navy (DON) Historically Black Colleges and Universities/Minority Institutions (HBCU/MI) Program. The program aims to grow the number of minority STEM professionals in the defense community through increasing the quality of STEM opportunities in HBCUs/MIs. Interested applicants must have proposals that “advance basic naval-relevant science and technology, engage faculty and students in STEM discovery, and expand the research capacity of participant institutions” as well as align with the Naval Research Development Framework, which includes key areas of interest such as: Information, Cyber, and Spectrum Superiority Undersea Battlespace and Maritime Domain Access Mission Capable, Persistent, and Survivable Sea Platforms Warfighter Performance Aviation, Force Projection, and Integrated Defense Further details on each area of interest can be found in the full FOA. Only formally designated U.S.-based Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs), HBCUs, and Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs) with STEM degree granting programs are eligible to apply. ONR expects to grant three awards of approximately $450,000 for up to three years. All applicants are required to submit a white paper by September 8, 2021, at 5:00 PM ET to don_hbcufoa@navy.mil. In addition, MSIs must submit a letter certifying eligibility to receive Title III or Title V assistance, if not a designated HBCU or TCU, along with the white paper. Those invited to submit a full proposal will receive notice by November 3, 2021. Full proposal submissions are due no later than December 1, 2021, at 11:59 PM ET. The full FOA can be found on www.grants.gov under funding opportunity number “N00014-21-S-F006” or here. C4ISR, Information Operations, Cyberspace Operations and Information Technology System Research, Cryogenics & Quantum (N66001-21-S-4700) The Naval Information Warfare Center, Pacific (NIWC Pacific) is soliciting white papers and proposals for areas relating to the advancement of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) capabilities, enabling technologies for Information Operations and Cyberspace Operations, and Information Technology systems. Proposed research should investigate unique and innovative approaches for defining and developing next generation integratable C4ISR capabilities and command suites. Additional Information: NIWC Pacific S&T Grants.gov solicitation Deadline: White papers are required for consideration. White papers will be accepted on a rolling basis until June 4, 2022. NIWC Pacific may then request a full proposal. Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program All open funding opportunities and pre-announcements are available here. Interested applicants can subscribe for real-time updates, including forthcoming solicitations here. High-Throughput Materials Discovery for Extreme Conditions (HRMDEC) program This is a pre-released opportunity. The full opportunity is expected to be release in June 2021. HRMDEC seeks to leverage high-throughput machine learning (ML) methods to develop, test, and characterize new materials suitable for use in extreme conditions and military environments like high-acceleration, high-temperature, and impact at high velocity scenarios. HRMDEC proposals should focus on the following research thrusts: Data-driven Material Design High-Throughput Synthesis & Processing High-Throughput Characterization ML-augmented Physics-Based Models Deadline: White papers, August 2021; Invited full proposals, November 2021 2022 Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) The full FY 2022 MURI solicitation issued by each Military Service is available at http://www.grants.gov by searching “N00014-21-S-F004” (Navy), “W911NF-21-S-0008” (Army), and “FOA-AFRL-AFOSR-2021-0003” (Air Force). The Army, Navy, and Air Force basic research offices have released 25 topics this year. FY 2022 MURI topics include: Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) Social Network-Transcendent Behavioral Dynamics Microelectronic Test Science Exploiting Latent Energy and Electromagnetic Radiation Cavity Molecular Polaritons Effects of Radiation Damage on Performance of Wide-Bandgap Electronics Understanding Neural Systems Integration for Competent Autonomy in Decision and Control Nonlinear Optical Material Design with Extreme Interband Nonlinearities Synthetic Quantum Matter Composability of Synthetic Biological Circuits Army Research Office (ARO) Bio-architected Responsive Materials with 3D Nanoscale Order Topological Seeds of Complex Response in Materials Connectivity and Transport in Disordered Hyperuniform Networks Irregular Metamaterial Networks Uncovering the Underlying Neurobiological Mechanisms of Cognitive Fatigue Gut-Neuronal Signaling Through Polymeric Mucin via Chemical Probes and Imaging ELECTROBIOLOGY: Electronic Control of Biological Communication Office of Naval Research (ONR) Novel Routes to Majorana Qubits for Topologically-Protected Quantum Information Molecular Doping of Organic Electronic Materials Learning from Hearing Hydrodynamics of Fish Schooling Self-learning for Real-world Perception Fundamental Non-equilibrium Processes in Weakly Ionized Hypersonic Flows Ab Initio Understanding of Detonation Based Combustion in Multiphase Mixtures Bioinspired Design of Energy-Self Sufficient Multi-functional Soft Material Systems Systems-Level Foundations for Agile, Dynamic, and Ad Hoc Human Autonomy Teams Environmental DNA-based Monitoring of the Marine Environment (EDMON) Department of Education (ED) Modeling and Simulation for Postsecondary Students Program Modeling and Simulation for Postsecondary Students Program is aimed to encourage modeling and simulation studies at institutions of higher education (IHE) and seeks to fund the development or enhancement of degree programs focused on modeling and simulation. These programs help develop tools and techniques in various industries where education and training for high-risk situations are not realistic. Deadline: December 5, 2021 More information here. Rural Postsecondary and Economic Development Grant Program The Rural Postsecondary and Economic Development Grant Program works to develop career pathways aligned with high demand industry sectors and jobs to improve postsecondary enrollment, retention, and completion among rural students. Deadline: December 5, 2021 More information here. Department of Energy (DOE) DOE Releases Funding Calls on Critical Minerals, Wildlife and Ecosystem Services for Solar, and Entrepreneurship Support for Clean Energy Technologies and Prepares Next Call on Carbon Management DOE released new funding calls to develop net-zero technologies that grow domestic minerals supply chains, support entrepreneurs in innovative clean energy technologies, and wildlife and ecosystems service benefits for the deployment of solar energy. DOE also plans to release a funding call on carbon management, including carbon conversion, removal, and storage technologies, within the next few months. DOE also completed and released 13 supply chain assessments for the energy sector industrial base that will influence future research, development and demonstration and workforce development funding opportunities. Deadline: varies $150 Million Solicitation for Chemical and Materials Research to Advance Clean Energy Technologies and Low-Carbon Manufacturing The Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science released a $150 million funding opportunity for fundamental chemical and materials research to advance clean energy technologies and low-carbon manufacturing. This broad funding solicitation mirrors many of the same topics in the recent Energy Frontier Research Centers funding call but is designed to support three-year projects for single principal investigators and small teams rather than four-year, large-scale, multidisciplinary, multi-institutional centers. Foundational research in clean energy technologies includes approaches to capture, produce, convert, store, and use energy that reduce or eliminate emissions such as greenhouse gases as well as approaches to decrease emissions that have been released into the environment from energy production and use, such as direct air capture and carbon storage/sequestration. Deadline: Pre-applications are required and are due March 16. Full applications are due May 17. Department of Energy Opportunities DOE released new funding calls in solar, carbon utilization, hydrogen, geothermal, and particle accelerators to support research, development, and demonstration activities. DOE has also started to release more information and continues to seek stakeholder input on future funding calls related to implementing $62 billion in funding from the bipartisan infrastructure bill, especially on regional clean hydrogen hubs and hydrogen manufacturing, recycling and electrolysis research and development. This update also provides a preview of upcoming Office of Science funding opportunities over the next few months as Congress finalizes fiscal year 2022 appropriations. Deadline: varies Concentrating Solar-Thermal Power Research, Development, and Demonstration The Department of Energy (DOE) Solar Energy Technologies Office (SETO) released a $25 million funding opportunity for innovative research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) that accelerates the large-scale development and deployment of solar technology. Projects will focus on lowering the cost of Concentrating Solar-Thermal Power (CSP) technologies in order to enable substantial deployment of CSP to decarbonize the electricity grid and energy system. SETO plans to fund projects in two specific areas of interest: Concentrating Solar-Thermal for Industrial Decarbonization to advance concentrating solar thermal energy generation coupled with thermal energy storage and integrated with high-temperature process technologies to produce economically important products, like steel, cement, ammonia, chemicals, and fuels. Concentrating Solar-thermal Particle Technologies for Generation 3 CSP and Beyond (Gen3++) to build on SETO's Gen3 CSP to develop systems that can operate at temperatures above 700°C. Deadline: Concept papers are due March 16, 2022 and full proposals are due May 16, 2022 $28 Million Solicitation for Hydrogen Research and Development The Department of Energy (DOE) Fossil Energy and Carbon Management (FECM) Office released a $28 million funding opportunity to support research and development for clean hydrogen production, storage, transportation and utilization. This is the first focused funding call to advance the goals of the Hydrogen Earthshot, which seeks to reduce the cost of clean hydrogen by 80 percent to $1 per 1 kilogram in 1 decade (“1 1 1”). DOE plans to fund projects in five specific areas of interest: Process intensification and modularization for clean hydrogen cost reductions Clean hydrogen from high-volume waste materials and biomass Sensors and controls for co-gasification of waste plastics in production of hydrogen with carbon capture Front end engineering design (FEED) studies for carbon capture systems at domestic steam methane reforming facilities producing hydrogen from natural gas FEED studies for carbon capture systems at domestic autothermal reforming facilities producing hydrogen from natural gas. Deadline: Full proposals are due March 23, 2022. No Concepts Papers or Letters of Intent are required. Department of Energy Opportunities January 2022 New in this update, DOE released a new funding opportunity in nuclear theory and new student prize competition for algae-based biofuels and bioproducts. DOE also announced the next Secretary of Energy Advisory Board and Artic X Innovation XLab meetings. This update also provides additional insight into ARPA-E topic areas for future technology programs and DOE plans to compete $8 billion to establish new Hydrogen Hubs. Deadline: varies Department of Energy Opportunities December 2021 On November 30, the Senate confirmed Corey Henderson as the NNSA Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation. He is the ninth official to be confirmed at DOE out of 23 positions that require Senate confirmation. Confirmations for the Assistant Secretaries for the Offices of Electricity, Fossil Energy and Carbon Management, and Science are all still pending. New in this update, DOE released new funding opportunities in life cycle assessments for carbon negative buildings, energy research for EPSCoR states, and biosystems design research for biofuels, bioproduction, and biomaterials. DOE signed a new interagency agreement with the U.S. Geological Survey to assess global, regional, and national resources for geologic carbon storage to meet clean energy goals. DOE will be releasing shortly new funding opportunities for Energy Frontier Research Centers; chemical and materials sciences to advance clean energy technologies and transform manufacturing; the university training and research for fossil energy applications program; and geologic carbon storage projects under CarbonSAFE. DOE also released Requests for Information on energy sector supply chains and deployment and demonstration opportunities for carbon reduction and removal technologies. In partnership with the Department of Transportation, DOE also released Requests for Information for new programs funded in the bipartisan infrastructure bill to deploy electric vehicle charging and hydrogen, propane, and natural gas fueling infrastructure. DOE also held webinars that provided additional information on the goals, objectives, and research priorities of the newly renamed Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management and plans to advance more than $10 billion in funding in the bipartisan infrastructure bill for hydrogen hubs and research and development activities (Lewis-Burke analysis forthcoming). Deadline: varies More information here. Department of Energy Opportunities November 2021 New in this update, DOE released a funding opportunity for advanced computing partnerships in earth system model development. DOE will also host a webinar on December 1 to highlight new initiatives and research priorities focused on carbon management and another one on December 8 to highlight new opportunities for regional hydrogen hubs and other hydrogen research and development activities based on provisions in the recently enacted bipartisan infrastructure bill. DOE announced the second Arctic X Energy Innovation Summit for January 26 focused on environmental justice and energy equity in the Arctic. Deadline: varies More information here. Snapshot of New Funding Opportunities in Physical Sciences, Cybersecurity, Hydropower and Wind Please find attached an update on Department of Energy (DOE) funding solicitations, student competitions, and other engagement opportunities. DOE released additional FY 2023 funding opportunities, including the Office of Science open call, university-based regional electric power cybersecurity research and development centers, technology innovations to increase hydropower flexibility, bat-wind turbine interactions, and a new Inclusive Energy Innovation Prize. DOE is now accepting applications for its lab embedded entrepreneurship program. DOE is also accepting applications for students interested in Office of Science STEM fields; carbon capture, utilization and sequestration; and building sciences, and will start accepting applications for the Collegiate Wind Competition in March 2022. As reported previously, DOE is also seeking feedback from stakeholders to help shape research priorities and funding opportunities in biological and environmental research. Deadline: varies Energy Research Snapshot: DOE Funding Opportunities The Department of Energy (DOE) is finalizing and about to release the last of its fiscal year (FY) 2021 funding opportunities and starting to turn to FY 2022. While many of the FY 2022 funding calls will be contingent on final congressional appropriations, DOE is already starting to collect information from stakeholders to help shape future opportunities. Please see more information on upcoming opportunities related to building technologies, hydropower, direct air capture, industrial decarbonization, and clean energy innovation. Deadline: varies Department of Energy Engagement Opportunities September snapshot of most recent Department of Energy opportunities, including Requests for Information to help shape research priorities and funding opportunities in solar energy; programs for graduate students in Office of Science STEM fields, buildings sciences, and carbon capture, utilization and sequestration; and the annual nuclear research and infrastructure funding opportunities. Deadline: varies Department of Justice (DOJ) W.E.B. Du Bois Research Program on Reducing Racial and Ethnic Disparities in the Justice System The W.E.B. Du Bois Program of Research on Reducing Racial and Ethnic Disparities in the Justice System for fiscal year (FY) 2021. This is the program's first competition since FY 2018. The program seeks to fund research that uncovers ways to reduce empirical racial and ethnic inequalities at the criminal and juvenile levels of the justice system. NIJ will hold a webinar on October 19, 2021, at 1:00 PM ET Deadline: Full applications are due by January 13, 2022 More information here. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Interior The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Interior (DOI) have released solicitations to support research or outreach activities to promote healthier communities including to improve water treatment and water quality, to understand personal exposure to per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), and to support outreach activities to increase awareness of ways to reduce environmental health disparities in school and/or childcare settings. Deadline: varies More information here. National Institutes of Health (NIH) NCATS Announces Structural Change to CTSA Program and Releases New Clinical and Translational Science Hub Award Solicitation The NCATS CTSA program is a collaborative research program designed to turn impactful and innovate observations in the laboratory, clinic, and community into interventions that can improve the health of the public. The NCATS CTSA Hub award, originally funded through the U54 mechanism as a single award, will now be divided into five separate funding opportunities, with the CTSA hub supported through the UM1 mechanism. The solicitation for the CTSA Hub award is now published (PAR-21-293) and NIH anticipates releasing related opportunities for other components of the program in the fall of 2021. Deadline: The first application due date for the CTSA Hub Funding Opportunity is January 26, 2022 with a letter of intent due 30 days prior to the application due date. The earliest start date is December 2022. More information here. National Science Foundation Strengthening American Infrastructure Solicitation The National Science Foundation (NSF) released an updated solicitation for the Strengthening American Infrastructure (SAI) program, which funds human-centered transformative research around domestic infrastructure. For this solicitation, NSF states that the infrastructure focus of the proposed research may be of any kind, “including physical, cyber, biological, technological, social, economic, or educational.” Proposals should focus on infrastructure that produces broad societal impact, such as those that support “transportation, energy, water, information, computing, national security, buildings, conservation, and commerce.” In addition, areas that present the greatest societal challenges are of special interest, including “equitable access to and benefit from infrastructure, sustainability, climate impact and disaster mitigation, economic resilience, emerging technologies, and future safety, productivity, and security for all citizens.” Deadline: Full proposal submissions are due May 5, 2022. Civic Innovation Challenge Solicitation The National Science Foundation (NSF) has released the second solicitation for the Civic Innovation Challenge (CIVIC) program. The CIVIC Program aims to accelerate the translation of basic research and new technologies into communities, by supporting community-driven research activities at the local scale. This competition includes two research tracks to be addressed: Track A – Living in a changing climate: pre-disaster action around adaptation, resilience, and mitigation; and Track B – Bridging the gap between essential resources and services and community needs. CIVIC also aims to increase collaboration, cooperation, and information sharing between sectors and regions. Deadline: Stage 1 proposals are due May 5, 2022. Stage 2 proposals are due February 1, 2023. Cultural Transformation in the Geoscience Community (CTGC) Cultural Transformation in the Geoscience Community (CTGC) which is aimed at addressing the underrepresentation of people of color, LGBTQIA+, and persons with disabilities in the geoscience field. There are two tracks including a larger $1.5 million Implementation Grant for institutions with a demonstrated track record of fostering the success of underrepresented scientists and a $120K planning grant for institutions looking to grow their capacity. Deadline: Letters of intent are required only for Implementation Grants and are due March 14, 2022, full proposals are due May 2, 2022. More information here. Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences Directorate Releases Build and Broaden 3.0 MSIs have experienced lower levels of support in conducting research relevant to NSF and are therefore disproportionately underrepresented in NSF award portfolios. B2 3.0 aims to address this by supporting the expansion of research capacity at institutions that represent diverse populations, as well as by promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion in the sciences. Successful proposals should: Strengthen science by broadening participation in scientific research and “widening the STEM pipeline;” Provide innovative ways for researchers to “diversify and sustain” partnerships; and Nurture collaboration that bolsters the careers and research of MSI faculty. Deadline: March 1, 2022 More information here. United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) AFRI Releases FY 2022 Sustainable Agricultural Systems RFA The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) released a request for applications (RFA) for the fiscal year (FY) 2022 Agriculture and Food Research Initiative (AFRI) Sustainable Agricultural Systems (SAS) program. The SAS program aims to transform U.S. food and agricultural systems to support increased production while addressing environmental sustainability challenges to ultimately bring about societal benefits and improved quality of life. The FY 2022 SAS solicitation focuses on local and regional climate-smart products; nutritious, safe, and accessible foods; and rural economic development. Applications must address one of the following areas: climate-smart agriculture and forestry, strengthening the bioeconomy, or food and nutrition security. Deadline: Letters of intent are due April 27, 2022 and applications are due July 28, 2022 Federal Updates and Newsletters Defense Policy Newsletter April 2022 Defense Policy Newsletter March 2022 Defense Policy Newsletter February 2022 Defense Policy Newsletter January 2022 Defense Policy Newsletter December 2021 Federal Efforts and Opportunities to Broaden Participation and Address Racial Equity in Research and Education Congressional Update: Congress Passes Landmark Transportation R&D Legislation Congressional Update: Congress Passes $1 Trillion Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill DOE Releases Funding Call for Carbon Storing Building Materials and Prepares New Solicitation for Geologic Carbon Storage Sites; Infrastructure Package Includes $62 Billion for DOE Defense Policy Newsletter October 2021 White House FY 2023 R&D Budget Priorities Policy Update: National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource Task Force Holds First Meeting Defense Policy Newsletter September 2021 2021 Bioeconomy Landscape DOE Fossil Energy and Carbon Management Priorities June 2021 2021 DARPA Discover DSO Day Summary and Best Practices to Engage House Appropriations Committee Unveils FY 2022 Agriculture Bill Defense Policy Newsletter Infrastructure and Economic Development Quarterly Newsletter NIH Advisory Committee to the Director June 2021 Meeting DOE Solicitation for Urban Integrated Field Laboratories for Climate Science ARPA-E Topic Areas for Future Solicitations Microelectronics Overview - February 2021 Defense Policy Newsletter Analysis of the FY 2022 President's Budget Request Multi-Agency Memos Large Federal Funding Opportunities Multi-Agency Federal Opportunities for Minority-Serving Institutions Lewis-Burke Analysis of the Federal Innovation and Economic Development Landscape Lewis-Burke Analysis of the Federal Innovation and Economic Development Landscape. This document provides an extensive examination of federal efforts to support commercialization, innovation, and economic development. While this document is not a complete list of federal innovation and economic development initiatives, it serves as a snapshot of the ongoing conversation and opportunities in this space throughout the federal government. Specifically, this document provides the following: An update on the innovation and economic development priorities of Congress and the Biden Administration; Emerging federal agency priorities related to innovation, public-private partnerships, and technology transfer; and Detailed analyses of federal funding opportunities to encourage technology transfer and economic development. Overview of Federal Funding Opportunities for Behavioral and Social Sciences, Arts, and Humanities Lewis-Burke's Overview of Federal Funding Opportunities for the Behavioral and Social Sciences, Arts, and Humanities. While not exhaustive, the overview provides information on a wide range of federal agencies and programs. Interested investigators should check individual solicitations for details, as deadlines may quickly approach. Further, investigators may use this document to identify relevant programs and develop proposals and strategies for federal agency engagement. Deadline: varies Search for Further Funding Opportunities Limited Submissions Hispanic Serving Institutions Funding Institutional Office of Research & Innovation Like Office of Research & Innovation on FacebookLike Office of Research & Innovation on Facebook Follow Office of Research & Innovation on twitterFollow Office of Research & Innovation on twitter Subscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTubeSubscribe to Office of Research & Innovation on YouTube Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Box 41075 Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3905 Email vpr.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 7, 2022 10:23 AM Office of Research & Innovation About Office of Research & Innovation About Back About the Office Office of Research & Innovation About About the Office Back Mission & Vision Office Services Staff Office of Research & Innovation About Staff Back Directory Org Chart Research Advisory Council Metrics Office of Research & Innovation About Metrics Back Monthly Annual Report Research Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Back External Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding External Funding Back Key Research Intelligence and Funding Opportunities Funding Institutional HSI Grant Opportunities Limited Submissions Internal Funding Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Internal Funding Back Internal Funding Opportunities Assistance for Residential Fellowships Fulbright Scholar Resources Faculty Awards Office of Research & Innovation Research Funding Faculty Awards Back Targeted Faculty Awards Internal Faculty Awards Celebration of Faculty Excellence Startup Requests Costs of Research Research Development Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Back Proposal Assistance Faculty Research Club Core Facilities Data Management Centers & Institutes Office of Research & Innovation Research Development Centers & Institutes Back University Recognized Centers & Institutes Reporting Find Collaborators (TTU Scholars) Research Guide Innovation Office of Research & Innovation Innovation Back Innovation Hub at Research Park Office of Research Commercialization SBIR/STTR Hub City Small Business Triage Research Services Safety & Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Back Responsible Research Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Responsible Research Back Office of Responsible Research Responsible Conduct of Research Resources Safety Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Safety Back EH&S Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Institutional Laboratory Safety Committee (ILSC) Radiation and Laser Safety Committee (RLSC) Human Subjects Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Human Subjects Back Human Research Protection Program Institutional Review Board (IRB) Animal Care Office of Research & Innovation Safety & Responsible Research Animal Care Back Animal Care Services Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee (IACUC) Financial Conflict of Interest Disclosure Export Control Research at TTU Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Back TTU Scholars Initiatives Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Initiatives Back Thrive! Rural America Excellence in Cotton & Natural Fibers Research Network Hurricane Resilience Research Institute Publications Office of Research & Innovation Research at TTU Publications Back Discoveries Magazine Raider Impacts Watch Research Unfold Strategic Research Themes Development Roadmap Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index