Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Advancement & External Relations Give to UW Bothell Advancement & External Relations Give to UW Bothell Make a Gift Stories of Impact Ways to Give Black Opportunity Fund Senior Class Gift Annual Impact Report 2010-2020 Contact Us Marketing & Communications Brand assets Editorial style guide Graphics Photography Templates Marketing & graphic services Accessible content Website resources CMS Migration Communications Request access Training workshops Documentation Accessibility Governance Event Calendar Help Privacy Social media Social media directory Marketo email tool Naming Conventions Media Relations Special events Convocation W Day "What if...?" Special Lecture Series Contact Us The Campaign for UW Bothell Give to UW Bothell Donations make a difference UW Bothell faculty and students are tackling every major issue facing society today, and your support helps make it possible. Join us in making an impact by supporting the most urgent needs of UW Bothell students today. Husky Giving Day - an amazing day of support Thank you to everyone who supported the University of Washington’s annual Husky Giving Day, held this year on April 7, 2022. It was a day filled with alumni, donors, friends, faculty, staff and students all coming together to celebrate the UW and to offer support for all we will do in the future. On this record breaking day, we had more than 100 event volunteers and, through the generosity of more than 150 donors, raised more than $200,000. We completed all of our giving challenges, including the Alumni Council, Connected Learning and Library challenges, which unlock additional funds to increase educational access and equity to enhance the Husky experience for our students. Your ongoing support is invaluable. Did you miss the fun videos produced for this day of giving? It is not too late to watch and share them. Just follow this Instagram link and check out the posts from April 7. 10 years of impact Visit the Campaign Stories page to revist highlights from the Campaign for UW Bothell (2010-2020). Stay connected Follow our Facebook page to stay updated on campaign progress, announcements and events! GIVE NOW My UW Giving View your giving history, access gift receipts, and learn more about the impact of your gifts at My UW Giving. Black Opportunity Fund The Black Opportunity Fund at UW Bothell invests in services and programs for the health and academic success of Black Students. Learn more about the Black Opportunity Fund. COVID-19 Student Emergency Fund Because of the coronavirus pandemic, many UW Bothell students have lost jobs or support they need to pay for their education and living expenses. Read about the impact the Emergency Fund has had on our students. UW Bothell Husky Pantry The Husky Pantry is a resource for all UW Bothell students who might be between paychecks or just need some extra resources to get through the week or month. Learn more about the Husky Pantry. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Advancement & External Relations Box 358528 19128 112th Ave NE, Suite 102 Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.3642 Fax: 425.352.5223 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbnews@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us