Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Menu Toggle Search Report a Concern Main navigation About Meet the Staff FAQ How Can We Help Services We Offer Disability Accommodations Religious Accommodation Reporting a Concern Training, Learning, and Development Resources and Policies Resources & Policies Info Affirmative Action Annual Reports Discrimination & Harassment Equal Opportunity Council InclusAbility Recruitment Resources Diversity Recruitment and Retention Toolkit Title IX Title IX Info Consent is BAE Reporting Sexual Assault Title IX Resources Title IX General Resource Guide Title IX Respondent's Resource Guide OEO Bulletin: News & Articles Forms Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Tagline "Iowa State University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, national origin, marital status, disability, or protected Veteran status and will not be discriminated against. Inquiries can be directed to the Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road, 515 294-7612, email eooffice@iastate.edu." Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Shortened Tagline "Iowa State University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or protected Veteran status and will not be discriminated against." Using the Non-discrimination Policy in Printed Materials As you print or revise publications for your department, please be reminded that the University's Non-discrimination Statement must be included in all departmental publications such as brochures, pamphlets, manuals and guidebooks, describing or inviting participation in programs at Iowa State University. The inclusion of the Non-discrimination Statement is required by federal regulation and is designed to make clear to prospective applicants or participants the University's commitment to equal opportunity in employment and equal access to its programs and activities. With the increase in desktop publishing, it is important for individual departments to be aware of this requirement and to include the Non-discrimination Statement on all departmental publications. Some departments have inquired as to whether the text of the Non-discrimination Statement must be placed on departmental homepages; there is no such requirement. Campus Climate Campus Climate Website Campus Climate Reporting System Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Statement Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action Statement (PDF) *The federal government requires employers to collect statistical information on employees. This information will be used in accordance with federal rules and regulations. Policy Links: Affirmative Action Policy Invitation to Self-Identify - Disability and Veterans Hiring and Employment Policy Inclusive Language Policy Procedure: Protocol for Reporting of Employee Demographic Information Resources: Department of Education Office for Civil Rights Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs U.S. Department of Labor - Veterans Affirmative Action Planning Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Contact Office of Equal Opportunity 515 Morrill Road 3410 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 eooffice@iastate.edu 515-294-7612 phone 515-294-2202 fax Office Hours Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...