Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research and External Funding Links Mind European/Continental philosophy Social and political philosophy External Funding Philosophical Horizons Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Research Philosophical Horizons Mission The Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis aims to introduce the history and practice of philosophy to Memphis children, particularly those who are socio-economically disadvantaged and to those schools that are the least likely to have the resources to implement Philosophy for Children (P4C) into their curriculum. Rationale Why Philosophy? Philosophy deals with fundamental issues regarding the nature of human beings and the meaning of life. Philosophical training involves the development of critical thinking and analytic skills. These skills allow one to formulate positions clearly, with precision and depth, and to critically reflect on the positions offered by others. Philosophy teaches one to think and write well and, to the extent that it does, it prepares students for any career or discipline they might choose to pursue. Introducing Philosophy to children in Memphis will have the effect of enriching Philosophical discourse and Philosophical practice. By bringing Philosophy to children, we hope to bring new voices to Philosophy and to the Humanities in general. Background Philosophical Horizons has affinities with a movement in Philosophy called Philosophy for Children (P4C). This movement began in the 1960s and has resulted in the implementation of Philosophy into pre-college curricula across the United States and world-wide. Training and Placement Please contact Christian Kronsted (christian.k@memphis.edu) for more information. Partner Schools University of Memphis Campus Elementary School Memphis Rox Leadership Preparatory Middle School Past participants include: Booker T. Washington High School, G.W. Carver High School, Hickory Ridge Middle School, University of Memphis Barbara K Lipman Pre-School, Westside Middle School, and Sheffield High School <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.