Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions David Hao Zhang Doctoral Student Doctoral Student Read more I am a PhD Candidate from Harvard’s Department of Economics and Harvard Business School. I am on the 2021-2022 academic job market. My main field of research is Finance, with special interest in household finance and banking. My secondary fields are in Real Estate and Industrial Organization. My CV is available here: CV Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Working Papers Working Papers Zhang, David Hao. "Closing Costs, Refinancing, and Inefficiencies in the Mortgage Market." Working Paper, November 2021. (Job Market Paper.) View Details Zhang, David Hao, and Paul Willen. "Do Lenders Still Discriminate? A Robust Approach for Assessing Differences in Menus." Working Paper, September 2020. View Details Gerardi, Kristopher, Paul Willen, and David Hao Zhang. "Mortgage Prepayment, Race, and Monetary Policy." Working Paper, September 2020. View Details Wang, Jeffrey, and David Hao Zhang. "The Cost of Banking Deserts: Racial Disparities in Access to PPP Lenders and their Equilibrium Implications." Working Paper, December 2020. View Details Liu, Tianwang, and David Hao Zhang. "Do Judge-Lawyer Relationships Influence Case Outcomes?" Working Paper, October 2020. View Details Zhang, David Hao. "Semi-Parametric Estimation of Dynamic Discrete Choice Models." Working Paper, April 2018. View Details Journal Articles Journal Articles Ishii, Jun, and David Hao Zhang. "Options Compensation as a Commitment Mechanism in Oligopoly Competition." Managerial and Decision Economics 38, no. 4 (June 2017): 513–525. View Details Shy, Oz, Rune Stenbacka, and David Hao Zhang. "History-based versus Uniform Pricing in Growing and Declining Markets." International Journal of Industrial Organization 48 (September 2016): 88–117. View Details Discussions Discussions Zhang, David Hao. Discussion of "Identification of Dynamic Games with Multiple Equilibria and Unobserved Heterogeneity with Application to Fast Food Chains In China," by Yao Luo, Ping Xiao, Ruli Xiao. International Industrial Organization Conference (IIOC), Indianapolis, IN, April 21, 2018. View Details Other Writings Other Writings Zhang, David Hao. "How Do People Pay Rent?" Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Research Data Report, No. 16-2, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Boston, MA, 2016. View Details Blog posts Blog posts Zhang, David Hao. "Should You Refinance Your Mortgage with Your Current Lender?" MortgageWaldo.com (2018). View Details All Publications I am a PhD Candidate from Harvard’s Department of Economics and Harvard Business School. I am on the 2021-2022 academic job market. My main field of research is Finance, with special interest in household finance and banking. My secondary fields are in Real Estate and Industrial Organization. My CV is available here: CV Working Papers Zhang, David Hao. "Closing Costs, Refinancing, and Inefficiencies in the Mortgage Market." Working Paper, November 2021. (Job Market Paper.) View Details Zhang, David Hao, and Paul Willen. "Do Lenders Still Discriminate? A Robust Approach for Assessing Differences in Menus." Working Paper, September 2020. View Details Gerardi, Kristopher, Paul Willen, and David Hao Zhang. "Mortgage Prepayment, Race, and Monetary Policy." Working Paper, September 2020. View Details Wang, Jeffrey, and David Hao Zhang. "The Cost of Banking Deserts: Racial Disparities in Access to PPP Lenders and their Equilibrium Implications." Working Paper, December 2020. View Details Liu, Tianwang, and David Hao Zhang. "Do Judge-Lawyer Relationships Influence Case Outcomes?" Working Paper, October 2020. View Details Zhang, David Hao. "Semi-Parametric Estimation of Dynamic Discrete Choice Models." Working Paper, April 2018. View Details Journal Articles Ishii, Jun, and David Hao Zhang. "Options Compensation as a Commitment Mechanism in Oligopoly Competition." Managerial and Decision Economics 38, no. 4 (June 2017): 513–525. View Details Shy, Oz, Rune Stenbacka, and David Hao Zhang. "History-based versus Uniform Pricing in Growing and Declining Markets." International Journal of Industrial Organization 48 (September 2016): 88–117. View Details Discussions Zhang, David Hao. Discussion of "Identification of Dynamic Games with Multiple Equilibria and Unobserved Heterogeneity with Application to Fast Food Chains In China," by Yao Luo, Ping Xiao, Ruli Xiao. International Industrial Organization Conference (IIOC), Indianapolis, IN, April 21, 2018. View Details Other Writings Zhang, David Hao. "How Do People Pay Rent?" Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Research Data Report, No. 16-2, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Boston, MA, 2016. View Details Blog posts Zhang, David Hao. "Should You Refinance Your Mortgage with Your Current Lender?" MortgageWaldo.com (2018). View Details Additional Information Links Personal Website Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets Additional Information Links Personal Website Area of Study Negotiation, Organizations and Markets ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College