Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Research Home Research and Fellowships Faculty Research Faculty Research Faculty at Dedman College are addressing the world's challenges and creating new knowledge through advanced research. From the search for the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider to innovative treatments for asthma to the history of the Mughal empire, Dedman College faculty are at the cutting-edge of breakthroughs driving technological change, policy solutions and answers to humankind's abiding questions. Dedman College Distinguished Faculty Awards Jodi Cooley, Associate Professor of Physics, named a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Caroline Brettell, Ruth Collins Altshuler Professor of Anthropology, elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Mark A. Chancey, Professor of Religious Studies, honored as a Guggenheim Fellow. SMU Technology and Education Cluster Dedman College, SMU Guildhall, Simmons School, and Lyle School have combined strengths to position SMU as leaders in research on the application of technology-enhanced immersive learning (TEIL). SMU has identified three significant research areas (1) Immersive Learning, (2) Artificial Intelligence (AI) in education and society, and (3) Improvement Science/Design-based Implementation Research (DBIR). Read more Star Wars come to life in SMU chemist’s invention Scenes from Star Wars triggered SMU organic chemist Alex Lippert's imagination as a child, so that today it’s informed one of his research goals as a chemist. Read More SMU Physicist Honored for Dark Matter Research SMU physicist Jodi Cooley has been named a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). Election as an AAAS Fellow is an honor bestowed by their peers upon the group’s members for scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science or its applications. Read More $2.3 million NSF grant awarded for SMU Research Training Group SMU Department of Mathematics awarded $2.3 millions grant to build expert teams that foster interdisciplinary research and strengthen mathematical career interest. Read More SMU History Professor Paves a Digital Path to the Past How the daughter of a Texas Instruments engineer injected technology into her love of history to write one of the most influential books in the past 20 years. Read more. Previous Next pause play hide show Department Research Focus Areas Anthropology Biological Sciences Chemistry Earth Sciences Economics English History Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Religious Studies Sociology Statistical Science World Languages and Literatures Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube