Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering About Academics Admission Research People Extension News & Events Careers Contact Search for: Toggle navigation About Academics Admission Research People Extension News & Events Careers Contact Search for: CCEE’s Dr. Christopher Frey confirmed by Senate for new EPA role CCEE News CCEE Ph.D. student named 2022 Energy Data Analytics Ph.D. Student Fellow at Duke University May 31, 2022 Recent CCEE grad Dr. Yixuan (Wendy) Wang wins second place for AWMA Dissertation Award May 31, 2022 CCEE Ph.D. student Adam Schmidt represents NC State at Graduate Education Day at N.C. General Assembly May 27, 2022 Read More News Upcoming Events Mon 22 First day of classes for Fall 2022 Semester August 22 Mon 19 21st Annual Paul Zia Distinguished Lecture: “Design & Construction of the Rainer Square Redevelopment Project” September 19 @ 3:00 pm - 5:00 pm Sat 05 NC State Homecoming November 5 View More Events See the department in action. CCEE_Intro Ongoing Research: Part 1 Ongoing Research: Part 2 Our numbers: 23 million in research expenditures 265 ongoing research projects 15 winners of CAREER and other NSF young faculty awards Our new home in Fitts-Woolard Hall As of the Spring 2021 semester, our department is officially at home in the new Fitts-Woolard Hall on Centennial Campus. This state-of-the-art building includes modern laboratories, collaborative workspaces for students and faculty, and a dedicated work area for student groups. Social distancing measures are still in effect due to Covid-19, but we hope that soon we will be able to fully inhabit the space and offer tours to prospective students and our community of alumni and friends. Naming opportunities are still available in many parts of the building. Contact Griffin Lamb with the NC State Engineering Foundation at grlamb@ncsu.edu. Show your support and GIVE NOW Explore our Research Areas Computing and Systems Construction Engineering Environmental, Water Resources, and Coastal Engineering Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering Mechanics and Materials Structural Engineering and Mechanics Transportation Materials and Systems Learn by Doing Through its state-of-the-art facilities and advanced computer resources, the department integrates education and research, giving our undergraduate and graduate students opportunities to solve real-world problems in classroom, field and laboratory settings. Learn more about CCEE Academics An undergraduate student works in the Constructed Facilities Lab on Centennial Campus. Photo by Marc Hall Degree Offerings Undergraduate B.S. Civil Engineering B.S. Construction Engineering B.S. Environmental Engineering Graduate Master and M.S. Civil Engineering Master and M.S. Environmental Engineering Ph.D. Civil Engineering Online Degrees Master of Civil Engineering Master of Environmental Engineering Apply to NC State Broaden Your World Student Organizations: Choose from our department organizations or other College of Engineering student organizations to network with other students and professionals outside the classroom. Co-op Experience: Gain hands-on job experience while pursuing your degree, and get paid for it, through the Cooperative Education Program. Study Abroad: Engineering has no borders. Employers value graduates with second languages, and exposure to international cultures. Study Abroad will introduce you to engineering from a global perspective and help you build your confidence in navigating new surroundings. Giving Donations help the CCEE department evolve and keep pace with the latest technology, while giving our students the skills, global awareness and sense of responsibility they need to make a difference in the world. Consider supporting the department today. Follow our Give Now link to donate to the Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering Enhancement Fund. Give Now Ready to Join the Wolfpack? Apply to NC State Search Our Job Openings Tenure-Track Faculty Position - Structural Tenure-Track Faculty Position - Geotechnical Research Internship Summer Experience Latest News CCEE Ph.D. student named 2022 Energy Data Analytics Ph.D. Student Fellow at Duke University Recent CCEE grad Dr. Yixuan (Wendy) Wang wins second place for AWMA Dissertation Award CCEE Ph.D. student Adam Schmidt represents NC State at Graduate Education Day at N.C. General Assembly Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Contact and Directions Events Calendar Giving MyCCEE Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering North Carolina State University | 915 Partners Way | Raleigh, NC | 27695-7908 © 2022 NC State University | Log in | Accessibility | Privacy Back to Top