Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Nicholson School of Communication and Media News Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during a crisis. New UCF Podcast Provides Government Transparency and Real-world Journalism Experience Spanning six episodes, the Winter Park Sunshine podcast aims to keep Central Floridians informed and engaged. Using the Arts to Take a Deep Dive into the Sea Pegasus Professor Stella Sung’s composition Oceana: Sounds of the Sea will invite patrons at UCF Celebrates the Arts into a story they will never forget. UCF Names 2022 Pegasus Professors This year’s recipients include expert researchers in the fields of physics and crisis communications. UCF Threepeats as World’s Best Graduate Game Design Program The Princeton Review and PC Gamer magazine have ranked UCF’s undergraduate and graduate programs among the best in the nation for the third straight year. UCF Journalism Student on the Impact of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Shooting Alexandra Sullivan was a first-year student on the school’s yearbook staff at the time of the 2018 shooting. She shares how media coverage of the event changed her view on the field and how she helped pay tribute to the 17 people tragically killed. Associate Provost for UCF Downtown Named Ross Wolf ’88 ’91MPA ’98EdD will play a key role in shaping the future of UCF’s urban campus of more than 7,500 students. UCF’s Gospel & Cultural Choir Lifts Every Voice Watch this powerful rendition of the Black National Anthem by the choir, a student organization that started more than 40 years ago and has added a bit of soul to campus culture ever since. UCF’s Top 5 Gifts of 2021 Philanthropic efforts made by generous organizations and impactful individuals this year help support the success of students, faculty, and staff — now and in the future — at UCF. 21 Faculty Members Inducted into UCF Scroll and Quill Society The honorees represent some of UCF’s best and brightest faculty who have helped elevate the university’s reputation on the national and international stages. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida