Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Career Prep Develop Your Career Develop Your Career Career development: an essential part of your IU experience Everything you do here helps to prepare you for a career. But to get the most out of your education, you should plan to participate in the career development process throughout your time at IU. We have more than a dozen career centers on campus—each devoted to a specific school, academic level, or career interest. So no matter where you are in your academic journey, you can find the help you need to prepare yourself for success after graduation. What comes first, the major or the career development process? The answer is either. Our career development process starts the day you step foot on campus. If you need help deciding on a career path and haven’t declared a major, start at the Career Development Center (CDC). It’ll help you learn about yourself and explore your options, whether you’re an undergraduate or a graduate student. If you already know what you want to do, great! You’ll find dedicated career resources within your school—and a wide variety of career-oriented events and job fairs offered across campus. Getting ready for the world: specialized career services After you’ve picked a path to pursue, you’ll use the center that specializes in careers tied to the majors offered by your school. You can talk to dedicated career advisors who know exactly what you need to do to get started in your chosen field. You can connect with employers looking for students like you. And you can get the real-world experience you need to succeed.See the full list of IU career centers Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University