Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC » Prospective Cadets Set Navigation title in component How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Prospective Cadets Cadet Shadow Program Who: Prospective Air Force ROTC students, high school or college What: We pair interested students with a freshman or sophomore cadet as they participate in weekly Aerospace Studies and Leadership training, you get to be a cadet for a day with no pressure and ask lots of questions. When: Every Thursday afternoon throughout the school year Where: Calhoun Building - 2585 Dennis Street, Suite 1100M-N Cincinnati, OH 45221 Why: Seeing things first-hand is usually the best way to make an assessment. Prospective students can get an idea of what our training is and experience the atmosphere of a team-centered training environment. Pairing you with someone relatively new in the program let's you get to know thier experience and what you can expect if you decide to join the team. How: Email: afrotc@ucmail.uc.edu to set up an appointment today! Our class schedule: Aerospace Studies: Every Thursday from 1:25PM-2:20PM, Leadership Laboratory: Every Thursday from 4:00PM-5:50PM AFROTC New Student Orientation Program Called "N-SOP" for short, this is an orientation day for incoming cadets from all of our area schools. Parents are welcome and we typically hold this event the Saturday before classes begin at the University of Cincinnati. At this event, the Detachment Commmander adresses future cadets and thier parents to discuss our program and what you can expect from him and the rest of the staff. There are brief presentations on scholarships and cool summer opportunities like the the Freefall and Glider programs at the Air Force Academy, or summer internships with the Space Force. Finally, the cadet leadership talks you through the weekly schedule and answers any remaining questions. Parents are usually dismissed before lunch while the new cadets meet thier peers and cadet leadership while doing some fun activities and ultimately eating pizza. The orientation event is designed to get new cadets and thier parents from nervous to EXCITED about getting started! Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top