Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Academic and Student Affairs Departments Programs & Resources Student Organizations Student Government About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of Student Life Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of Student Life Programs & Resources Programs & Resources Diversity Education Community Service Day Student Leadership Awards Student Wellness Program Thrive Food Pantry Sexual Assault Awareness Student Legal Service Related Links: Events Calendar Student Organizations Student Organizations Starting a New Organization Manage Your Organization Planning Events and Outreach Money Matters Advisor Expectations Related Links: The Beat Student Government About We are here to support students' personal and professional development through opportunities on campus and in the community. Student Governing Council Thrive Food Pantry Student Organizations Resources Discover Opportunities at KU Medical Center Looking for an event, organization or way to get involved at KU Medical Center? The Beat is your source for all the latest news and updates from our student community. Visit The Beat Office of Student Life 1006 Orr Major Mail Stop 4018 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-6681 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.