Coles, Drew X. (dxc2102) Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC WWW View All Faculty Profiles Home Vitae Drew Xavier Coles Lecturer - Music & Music Education 646-598-6025 Office Location: HM 525M HMann Office Hours: Spring 2022Mondays 11:00 am - 12:30 pm & Wednesdays from 5:00 pm - 6:30 pm (Eastern Time) Or by appointmentVia Zoom www.drewxcoles.com TC Affiliations: Arts & Humanities Music and Music Education Faculty Expertise: Higher Education Leadership Race and Ethnicity Teacher Education Arts Music Education Home Vitae Educational Background Ed.D. in Music Education, 2019 – Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY M.B.A., 2014 – Metropolitan College Of New York, New York, NY M.A. in Jazz Performance, 2013 – Queens College, City University Of New York, New York, NY B.M. in Music Business, 2011 – Crane School Of Music, State University Of New York At Potsdam, Potsdam, NY Scholarly Interests Drew X Coles is a multi-instrumentalist, composer, arranger, producer, serial entrepreneur, and educator. Drew serves as a lecturer, applied lessons instructor, and ensemble facilitator at Teachers College, Columbia University. Drew also teaches music entrepreneurship at the Manhattan School of Music, and serves as a visiting assistant professor and program coordinator for the Music Business Program at the Crane School of Music at the State University of New York at Potsdam. His scholarly interests include; the construct of success as it applies to post-secondary music students, culturally responsive pedagogy in the music classroom, the use of technology in the applied studio, mentorship in music higher education, Jazz pedagogy, improvisation pedagogy, comprehensive musicianship coursework and curricula, artistic entrepreneurship, and quantitative research methods in music education. Drew has served as the Executive Director of the international chamber orchestra of America. Drew is also a co-founder of Pro Arts Management and Consulting LLC and serves as the Musical Director to the Metropolitan Players, an award-winning New York City-based wedding entertainment collective. Among other scholarly affiliations, Drew is a board member of the Society for Arts Entrepreneurship Education. Selected Publications SELECTED PUBLICATIONS & PRESENTATIONS (November 2020) Conference Presentation at the Society for Arts Entrepreneurship Education 2020 Conference: An Entry Point for Culturally Responsive Arts Entrepreneurship Pedagogy. (October 2020) Conference Presentation at National College Music Society Conference: Mentoring Black Scholars in Music. (June 2020) Conference Presentation at NETMCDO Conference: My Supporting Cast: A guide to helping students embrace their intersectionality. Coles, D. X. (2019). Perceptions of Success Among Music Professionals(Doctoral dissertation, Teachers College, Columbia University). Coles, D. X. (2018, October). Reimagining Career Clarity in Music Professions, Defining Success in Boundaryless Music Performance Careers. In College Music Symposium(Vol. 58, No. 2, pp. 1-7). The College Music Society. (2018) Conference Presentation at NETMCDO Conference: Teaching Demonstration Career Pie Chart. (2017) An African-American Legacy: The Harlem Renaissance. Young People’s Concerts Resource Materials for Teachers, New York Philharmonic. Biographical Information Dr. Drew X Coles is a multi-instrumentalist, composer, arranger, producer, serial entrepreneur, and educator. Drew serves as an applied lessons instructor, ensemble facilitator, and adjunct professor at Teachers College, Columbia University. Drew also teaches music entrepreneurship at the Manhattan School of Music, and serves as the program director for the Music Business Program at the Crane School of Music at the State University of New York at Potsdam. His scholarly interests include; the construct of success as it applies to post-secondary music students, culturally responsive pedagogy in the music classroom, the use of technology in the applied studio, mentorship in music higher education, Jazz pedagogy, improvisation pedagogy, comprehensive musicianship coursework and curricula, artistic entrepreneurship, and quantitative research methods in music education. Drew holds a Bachelor of Music degree from the Crane School of Music at the State University of New York at Potsdam, a Masters degree in Jazz Performance from Queens College of the City University of New York, and an M.B.A. from the Metropolitan College of New York. Drew earned his Doctorate in Music Education at Teachers College, Columbia University after defending his dissertation on the perceptions among musicians on the construct of career success as it applies to them as well as their peers. Drew has served as the Executive Director of the International Chamber Orchestra of America. Drew is also a co-founder of Pro Arts Management and Consulting LLC and serves as the Musical Director to the Metropolitan Players, an award-winning New York City-based wedding entertainment collective. Among other scholarly affiliations, Drew is a board member of the Society for Arts Entrepreneurship Education. In his applied studio, Drew focuses on using technology to incite and support self-directed learning, both in digital music-based students as well as in traditional instrumental students. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links