Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the President President right arrow down arrow The President right arrow down arrow President's Cabinet Organizational Chart Inaugural Address The Office right arrow down arrow Governmental Relations Former Presidents First Lady right arrow down arrow Book: 'UC's First Ladies' Communications right arrow down arrow News Next: President's Report right arrow down arrow Next Report Fall 2019 Next Report Spring 2019 Next Report Fall 2018 Spring 2021 President's Report Statements Thought Leadership The Power of Vision Presidential Awards right arrow down arrow President's Award for Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence right arrow down arrow Previous Recipients Honorary Degrees NEXT Innovation Scholars Priorities right arrow down arrow Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group right arrow down arrow Report Contact Home » About UC » President » Priorities Set Navigation title in component Strategic Direction Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Next, Now Campaign Searches McMicken Working Group Report Priorities Strategic Direction UC's strategic direction, Next Lives Here, outlines an inventive framework designed to drive student curiosity, drive discovery, and create an inclusive environment that transforms how we teach and learn, conduct research, serve, and care for others. Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact Our university mission statement commits us to excellence and diversity, and we strive to ensure that these values are much more than words. We believe excellence and diversity go hand in hand. To truly be excellent, we must call upon the talents and ideas of all members of the community. We work to provide an inclusive environment so that students, faculty and staff have the opportunity to achieve their highest potential. We invite all to join us in the pursuit of this priority as we know we have much work yet to do. Next, Now Campaign With its focus on innovation and impact, Next, Now: The Campaign for Cincinnati is where ambition meets action. This campaign, between the University of Cincinnati and UC Health, is dedicated to breaking new paths for students, supporting discoveries and cures, and investment in world-class patient care. Affordability With students and families in mind, our university has worked hard to find efficiencies and creative ways to reduce costs for our students. Searches From time to time, the University of Cincinnati must establish a search committee to identify candidates and then hire an individual to fill a vacant provostal or decanal position. Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 president@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the President University of Cincinnati 625 University Pavilion 2618 McMicken Circle Cincinnati, OH 45221-0063 513-556-2201 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top