More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail PennComm & Emergency Communications The PennComm operations team provides emergency communications and response between all members of the Penn and University City communities and police, fire and medical emergency responders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. All of our security technology reports back to our PennComm Communications Center. The PennComm operations team provides emergency communications and response between all members of the Penn and University City communities and police, fire and medical emergency responders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Over 106,000 calls for service are processed directly by the PennComm Center annually, including calls for Walking Escort services. The dispatching center utilizes a state-of-the-art Computer Aided Dispatching (CAD) System to record all requests for service from the Penn Community, and is responsible for monitoring all alarms throughout campus, including burglar alarms, duress alarms and fire alarm systems. The Dispatchers can also see the City of Philadelphia’s 911 calls and respond quickly to any calls which may appear for within the Penn Patrol Zone. PennComm operators, like the police officers assigned to various sectors for active walking, bike, and vehicle patrol, are trained to view the Penn patrol zone using the CCTV cameras through virtual patrol on a 24/7 basis for the purposes of crime prevention and abatement. PennComm Operations Center Crime Mapping & Data Analysis Bluelight Phones – Direct Emergency Contact Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) Closed Circuit TV Committee Penn Guardian Matthew D. Corcoran Director of PennComm Emergency Communications Center Matthew Corcoran joined the Division of Public Safety in August, 2012. Matt serves as the Director of the PennComm Emergency Communications Center, overseeing the day to day operations of the Division’s Emergency Communication Center, a 24/7/365 operation. Matt has over 27 years’ experience in the emergency communications field. He served 21 of those years working […] Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset