Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Home Research Education News Events People About Giving Shop Contact Us Biology & Paleo Environment Tree Ring Lab Core Repository Geochemistry Hudson River Field Station Marine Geology & Geophysics Marine/Large Programs Office of Marine Operations Ocean & Climate Physics Seismology, Geology and Tectonophysics Rock & Ice Mechanics Lab Visitor Opportunities Core Repository Hudson River Field Station Open House Student & Educator Programs Rockland P.L.U.S. Day in the Life of the Hudson Secondary School Field Research Summer Intern Programs Next Gen Hudson River Educators Earth2Class Resources Polar Science Climate & Sustainability Hudson River Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Earth Science News Lamont in the Media Newsletter News Archive All Events Earth Science Colloquium Series Biology & Paleo Environment Seminars Geochemistry Seminars Geodynamics Seminars Marine Geology & Geophysics/Seismology, Geology & Tectonophysics Seminars Ocean & Climate Physics Seminars Summer Stars Lecture Series History Director's Office Director's Reports Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Alumni Awards The Vetlesen Prize Lamont Awards Outside Awards Climate Center Luminaries & Signature Events Annual Reports Lamont Features Map Careers Open Positions Postdoctoral Fellowships Research Visitors Visitor Info Contact & Directions Shuttle Schedule Campus Café Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory You are here: Home News Quantum Phase Transition Is Detected on a Global Scale in the Deep Earth Earth Sciences Quantum Phase Transition Is Detected on a Global Scale in the Deep Earth Scientists have observed and learned to use subatomic phenomena on the earth’s surface. Now, for the first time, they can see similar things deep within the planet. By Holly Evarts October 14, 2021 Scientists have for the first time documented areas in the deep earth where materials have undergone changes on a subatomic level. There, crushing pressures apparently are bringing about a long hypothesized but until now unproven quantum phase transition called a spin crossover, which affects the magnetic state of a key deep-earth mineral. The interior of the earth is a mystery, especially at depths greater than about 650 kilometers, or some 400 miles. Researchers have only seismic tomographic images of this region; to interpret them, they need to measure or calculate the velocities of seismic waves passing through minerals in various layers. Direct measurements are challenging and rare but in the last two decades scientists have gotten around this to some degree by making quantum calculations. With these, they can create 3D maps and figure out the mineralogy and temperature of the observed regions. When a phase transition occurs in a mineral, such as a crystal structure change, scientists observe a velocity change, usually a sharp seismic velocity discontinuity. In 2003, lab scientists observed a novel type of phase change in minerals—a spin change in iron in ferropericlase, the second most abundant component of the earth’s lower mantle. A spin change, or spin crossover, can happen in minerals like ferropericlase under an external stimulus, such as pressure or temperature. Over the next few years, experimental and theoretical groups confirmed this phase change in both ferropericlase and bridgmanite, the most abundant phase of the lower mantle. But no one was quite sure why or where this was happening. Columbia Engineering professor Renata Wentzcovitch began investigating this question. Wenzcovitch’s research focuses on computational quantum mechanical studies of materials at extreme conditions, in particular planetary materials. In 2006, she published her first paper on ferropericlase, providing a theory for the spin crossover. Her theory suggested it happened across a thousand kilometers in the lower mantle. Visualization: Nicoletta Barolini/Columbia Engineering Since then, Wentzcovitch, a professor in Columbia’s department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics, and the university’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, has published 13 papers with her group on the topic. In these, they investigated velocities in every possible situation of the spin crossover in ferropericlase and bridgmanite, and predicted properties of these minerals throughout this crossover. In 2014, they predicted how this spin change could be detected in seismic tomographic images, but seismologists still could not see it. With a multidisciplinary team from the University of Oslo, the Tokyo Institute of Technology and Intel Co., Wenzcovitch’s latest paper, in the journal Nature, details how they have now identified the ferropericlase spin crossover signal deep within the earth’s lower mantle. They achieved this by looking at specific regions in the mantle where ferropericlase is expected to be abundant. “This exciting finding, which confirms my earlier predictions, illustrates the importance of materials physicists and geophysicists working together to learn more about what’s going on deep within the earth and other planets,” said Wentzcovitch. “Geodynamic simulations have shown that the spin crossover invigorates convection in the earth’s mantle and tectonic plate motion. So we think that this quantum phenomenon also increases the frequency of tectonic events such as earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.” Engineers commonly harness spin transition in materials like those used for magnetic recording. If you stretch or compress just a few nanometer-thick layers of a magnetic material, you can change the layer’s magnetic properties and improve the medium’s recording properties. Wentzcovitch’s new study shows that the same phenomenon happens across thousands of kilometers in the planet’s interior, taking this from the nano- to the macro-scale. “There are still many regions of the mantle researchers do not understand, and [studying] spin state change is critical to further progress,” said Wentzcovitch. She is continuing to interpret seismic tomographic maps, and developing more accurate materials simulation techniques to predict seismic velocities and transport properties. In particular, she is looking at regions rich in molten or near-molten iron. “We’ll be able to improve our analyses of 3D tomographic images of the earth and learn more about how the crushing pressures of the [interior] are indirectly affecting our lives above,” she said. Tags deep earth Earth's mantle Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory quantum physics News May 31, 2022 Aurora Barone Looks for Equitable Ways to Cut Carbon Emissions May 27, 2022 Sylhet City, Geology, and Packing Up May 25, 2022 Community-Led Science Uncovers High Air Pollution From Fracking in Ohio County May 20, 2022 Start of the Mini-Field School May 17, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory61 Route 9W · Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 845-359-2900 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close