Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Behavioral Intervention Team Being Concerned Assessing Behavior Making Referrals BIT Members Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Submit a Report/Concern Notice unusual behavior? Have a complaint about harassment? Life doesn't go according to plan Whether you need emergency housing or just a little assistance getting to school, we're here to help. Assessing Behavior Use this guide to determine the best way to respond PreviousNext Take Action Report a Concern Resources Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Home Behavioral Intervention Team Behavioral Intervention Team Be the difference. It might start when you notice something small. Then you notice another incident. A threat towards another student. Getting enraged over something minor. Comments of self-loathing. The University of Memphis regularly monitors the care, welfare and safety of all of our students, faculty, and staff. We can't work, learn and live in an environment where we don't feel 100% safe. That's where the Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) comes in. Our experienced team members address student behavioral concerns that are not living up to the University’s mission of providing a non-threatening environment where everyone feels safe and secure. BIT addresses critical student behavioral or mental health concerns through review of situations/incidents, information gathering and sharing, and providing recommendations to ensure the safety and educational success of the student. The BIT does not replace other classroom management or disciplinary processes nor does it address student behaviors that require immediate health, police or mental health attention. The success of this process hinges on the University’s commitment to reporting concerns. So, we thank you for reviewing this site and doing your part to keep our college campus the best that it can be! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/8/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.