Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Science and Technology Date April 1, 2022 2022-04-01 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner Researchers from Brown University show how boa constrictors breathe with different sections of their rib cage, an adaptation that likely helped them evolve into successful predators. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — This won’t bring much comfort to a boa constrictor’s unlucky victims, but eating dinner puts the snake in a bit of a bind. The mechanics of squeezing a creature to death and then swallowing it whole create pressure on the boa’s ribs and lungs, restricting their ability to fill their lungs with oxygenated air. Yet snakes have clearly overcome — some might even say mastered — the challenges of breathing while eating, and researchers have finally figured out how. A study published in Journal of Experimental Biology explains how boa constrictors are able to adjust which region of the ribcage they use to inhale, depending on whether they are resting, constricting or digesting. “By showing how snakes were able to circumvent the mechanical constraints of constriction and large prey ingestion — the very things that helped distinguish them from other limbless elongate animals — this study provides a new perspective on snake evolution,” said John Capano, lead study author, who received his Ph.D. from Brown University in 2021 and is now a postdoctoral research associate in lab of Matt Fuxjager, a Brown associate professor in the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology. Snakes don’t have diaphragms, so they rely entirely on the motions of their ribs to breathe, Capano said. To quantify individual rib motions, Capano and Elizabeth Brainerd, a Brown professor of biology and medical science, used a 3D imaging technology developed at Brown University called X-ray reconstruction of moving morphology (XROMM), which can show the rapid skeletal movement of live creatures. XROMM combines 3D models of bone morphology with movement data from x-ray video to create highly accurate re-animations of the bones moving in space (for example: birds flying, frogs jumping — and snakes breathing). In the experiments, Capano and Brainerd secured a blood pressure cuff around the ribs of boa constrictors to restrict their movements. Capano attached tiny metal markers to two ribs in each reptile — one set of markers a third of the way down the snake’s body and another halfway along — to visualize how the ribs moved using X-rays. Then he positioned a blood pressure cuff over the ribs in both regions and gradually increased the pressure to prevent the ribs from moving. Some of the snakes reacted to the feeling of the cuff by hissing defensively, thus filling their lungs with air and expanding their ribs “Hissing provided us with an opportunity to measure some of the biggest breaths snakes take,” Capano said. https://www.youtube.com/embed/8zig5h9UQLs Saccular ventilation When the vascular region was restricted, the saccular region behaved like a bellows, pulling air through the front and supplying the body with oxygen. Reconstructing the boa constrictors’ rib movements, it was clear that the animals were able to control the movements of ribs in different portions of the rib cage independently. When the boa constrictors were gripped by the blood pressure cuff a third of the way along the body, the animals breathed using the ribs further back. However, when the ribs toward the rear of the lung were constricted, the snakes breathed using the ribs closer to the head. In fact, the ribs at the far end of the lung only moved when the forward ribs were gripped, drawing air deep into the posterior section of lung, even though this further back region has a poor blood supply and cannot uptake oxygen into the body. The researchers discovered that the far end of the lung (known as the saccular region) behaved like a bellows, pulling air through the front section of the lung (the vascular region) when that area wasn’t able to do its job. In this way, they were able to continue to supply the body with oxygen even when the vascular region couldn’t ventilate itself. In control experiments in which no pressure was applied to the vascular region, snakes continued to breathe using rib motions in this area. In addition, Capano, with Scott Boback and Charles Zwemer from Dickinson College, recorded the nerve signals controlling the muscles that moved the ribs during different behaviors. Boback also filmed a snake with a GoPro camera as it dined. The researchers found that the snake could turn off the nerve signals to the muscles in both the front and back part of the lung; the snakes were able to shift where they to breathed by activating a different set of ribs further along the body. https://www.youtube.com/embed/fP2vd8LA30s Vascular breathing When the the boas' saccular region was restricted, the animals breathed using the front vascular region — as they do when at rest. The researchers found multiple lines of evidence in support of their hypothesis that boa constrictors actively modulate the trunk segments and ribs used for lung ventilation in response to hindered rib motions. They also confirmed that during prey ingestion, boa constrictors breathed with segments that were not full of food, shifting the sections they used as the prey moved through their digestive system. Because subduing and digesting a victim requires a lot of energy (and thus oxygen), the researchers concluded that the snakes likely adapted their sectional-breathing style before they evolved to take on larger prey. Capano said that these findings help explain how snakes have been able to adapt to a wide diversity of habitats, develop into countless species and proliferate. “Snakes are, by far, one of most widespread and adaptable predators on the planet, yet the fact that they’ve managed to become so successful within the confines of an elongate, limbless body is quite remarkable — especially considering that this body type has limited the diversity and range of other similarly shaped vertebrates,” Capano said. Evolving the ability to constrict and ingest large prey drastically expanded snakes’ meal options beyond the small insects consumed by most elongate vertebrates. However, Capano said, “we suggest that constriction and eating massive prey could not have evolved to such extreme and effective levels without modular lung ventilation.” Additional contributors to this study include Hannah I. Weller from Brown University and Robert L. Cieri from the University of the Sunshine Coast in Australia. This research was supported by the National Science Foundation (1655756, 1661129) and Sigma Xi (G20160315024996 and G2017100190748016). https://www.youtube.com/embed/01qObew7Yzg Modular ventilation This video shows how snakes are able to use different sections of their body independently in order to breathe while constricting and digesting. Tags Research Related news: Science and Technology Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates Science and Technology Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups May 4, 2022 New methods of analyzing DNA will allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations, ultimately enabling more targeted treatments. Read Article Open details for Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups Science and Technology Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion April 20, 2022 A self-propelled robotic swimmer, developed by Brown University students and faculty, could help researchers better understand the complex swimming behaviors of bacteria and other microorganisms. Read Article Open details for Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner Open details for How boas save themselves from suffocation when constricting and digesting dinner Bookmark this Page