Skip to main content Search form Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Search Menu Information For Alumni Search You are here Home Alumni News & Events Newsletter Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Stay Connected Alumni Board News & Events Alumni Giving Benefits and Services Contact Us Q&A with Dr. Anne C. Beal Applied Practice Experience - APEx Newsletter Archive Q&A with Dr. Anne C. Beal Applied Practice Experience - APEx Newsletter Archive E-mailman newsletter A letter from the Mailman Alumni Board Communications Chair By Susan Amlani, MBA ’04, MPH ’01 Dear Fellow Alumni, I am extremely excited to share the latest summer issue of E-Mailman, written for Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health Alumni by Mailman Alumni. Now more than ever, it is so important that our community stays connected. This newsletter is a key way to do just that. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our global communities, public health remains at the forefront. Coming together to exchange ideas and best practices has never been so crucial. We are proud to take a moment to celebrate the Mailman community, and dive deeper into the critical work our fellow alumni do. As this newsletter highlights, our community is as engaged and pivotal as ever in addressing the public health challenges of our day. Some highlights include the following: Suzanne Kirkendall, MPH ’18, profiles fellow alumna, Gail Emrick, MPH/MIA ’87, Executive Director of Southeast Arizona Area Health Education Center (SEAHEC), who talks about her exciting documentary, A Story of Migration: My Tale of Two Cities. Read here. Ted Nappi, PharmD ’76, highlights the many accomplishments of fellow alumnus, Louis J. Ignarro, BS ’62, PhD ’66, who won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1998. Read here. Stacey M. Cameron, Esq, MPH, ’15 talks to fellow alumna Almaz Ahmed-Falol, MPH ’09 about an important Mailman initiative, Columbia Public Health FORWARD (Fighting Oppression, Racism and White Privilege through Action, Research and Discourse). Read here. Nicole Iny, MPH ’10, gives a sneak peak of Mailman’s centennial celebration year! She also highlights a great new networking resource for Mailman alumni and students, Columbia Mailman Connect. Read here. Emer Braddock MPH ’14 talks about a fun wine-tasting alumni event held virtually in December. Read here. Lastly, join the Alumni Board in saying goodbye and thank you to our departing members and welcoming 11 new members! Congratulations! Read here. A special thank you to my fellow alumni on the Mailman Communications Committee and Columbia Mailman’s Alumni Relations staff who made this issue happen; they are listed below. And a note of congratulations and welcome to our newest Mailman alums, the Mailman graduating class of 2021. Happy reading! Susan Amlani, MBA ’04, MPH ’01 Communications Chair and Member Columbia Mailman School of Public Health Alumni Board Communications Committee Members who made this Spring/Summer ‘21 issue of Mailman possible: Susan Amlani, MBA ’04, MPH ’01 Francesca L. Bertolini, Director of Constituent Engagement Events Renuka Bijoor, DDS ’03, MPH ’15 Stacey M. Cameron, Esq, MPH ’15 Nicole Iny, MPH ’10 Suzanne Kirkendall, MPH ’18 Theodore Nappi, PharmD ’76 Shannon Ward, MPH ’12 More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living ArrangementsApr 22 2022 A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of TimeApr 20 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers