Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. UC alumna creates scholarship benefiting women in engineering... May 23, 2022 Only 15% of U.S. engineers are women, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau. It’s a gap the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science hopes to help close, and a UC alumna has established a scholarship that will aid efforts. UC Law announces new co-chairs for Women in Law alumnae group May 13, 2022 Janetta Brewer ’06 and Rebecca Zemmelman ’16 will serve as co-chairs of the Women in Law alumni group, a philanthropic group made up of College of Law alumnae that funds a spectrum of faculty and student-led programs at the College of Law. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Gift names new UC College of Law building atrium May 23, 2022 A University of Cincinnati alumnus has made a gift of $500,000 to the new University of Cincinnati College of Law building. H.C. Buck Niehoff, JD ’72, HON ’11, is honoring his former law firm, Peck, Shaffer & Williams LLP, by naming the two-story atrium. UC alumna creates scholarship benefiting women in engineering... May 23, 2022 Only 15% of U.S. engineers are women, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau. It’s a gap the University of Cincinnati College of Engineering and Applied Science hopes to help close, and a UC alumna has established a scholarship that will aid efforts. UC Law announces new co-chairs for Women in Law alumnae group May 13, 2022 Janetta Brewer ’06 and Rebecca Zemmelman ’16 will serve as co-chairs of the Women in Law alumni group, a philanthropic group made up of College of Law alumnae that funds a spectrum of faculty and student-led programs at the College of Law. Inaugural director of Jones Center says philanthropy paved the... May 2, 2022 In July 2020, University of Cincinnati alumnus Bill Morelli, A&S ’74, JD ’78, gave $200,000 to support a center at the law school focused on race, gender, and social justice. Volunteer leader serves, unites fellow Bearcats-for-life April 28, 2022 Rusty Myers embodies best qualities of UC alumni family. UC positioned for growth in computer science April 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati’s College of Engineering and Applied Science (CEAS) will establish a new Department of Computer Science. UC Day of Giving proves it’s a remarkable time to be a Bearcat April 26, 2022 24-hour challenge raises more than $2.5 million for UC scholarships, programs, and more. UC Foundation names Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award... April 26, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Foundation recognized its Outstanding Philanthropic Volunteer Award honorees at the George Rieveschl Recognition Dinner in April 2022. This was the first time in two years the event has been held. UC to award honorary degree to 'technology trailblazer' April 22, 2022 UC will confer a Doctor of Commercial Science honoris causa to Lori A. Beer, global chief information officer for JPMorgan Chase & Co. UC Law celebrates 2022 Distinguished Alumni April 21, 2022 The UC College of Law will honor Katherine B. Blackburn ’89, Gary A. Garfield, Esq. ’81, and the Honorable Alice O. McCollum ’72 as part of the 2022 Distinguished Law Alumni Awards on Friday, April 29. Helping research get off the ground April 20, 2022 Nearly 10 years after a personal loss from a head and neck cancer, the Brandon C. Gromada Head & Neck Cancer Foundation continues to advance research around the devastating disease at the University of Cincinnati Cancer Center. CCM shares 2022 alumni and distinguished service awards April 18, 2022 UC's College-Conservatory of Music is proud to present alumni and distinguished service awards to outstanding members of our community at the end of each academic year. The 2022 awards are presented to five accomplished alumni and one dedicated patron in a private virtual event as well as during the college's Graduation Convocation Ceremony. Details on CCM's 2022 Graduation Convocation Ceremony, which is scheduled for Friday, April 29, are available online. Scholarship to support students from Ukraine, Russia April 13, 2022 A Greater Cincinnati company has established a scholarship for international students at the University of Cincinnati affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. UC nursing PhD candidate remembered with scholarship for... April 8, 2022 Following UC College of Nursing PhD candidate Louis Gambia Ti Banguima's death, a classmate established a new scholarship fund in his honor. UC Day of Giving begins with celebration of gift to Cincinnati... April 6, 2022 Glenn M. Weaver, BS ’43, MD ’45 spent his career focused on the intersection of law and psychiatry. A renowned leader in clinical and forensic psychiatry, such was his dedication that he founded the Weaver Institute for Law and Psychiatry at the University of Cincinnati College of Law in 1998. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top