Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Skip to main content Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Canvas | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now eCourseware | Webmail | Contact Us Request Info Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Rankings Accreditations Contact Us Degrees & Programs Undergraduate Graduate Certificates All Programs Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Current Students Student Services & Support Register for Courses Graduation Home UofM Global Degree Programs UofM Global Professional Real Estate Program Degree Programs Online Degrees Undergraduate Degrees All Undergraduate DegreesBusinessComputingHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesSocial Science Graduate Degrees All Graduate DegreesArtsBusinessComputingEducationEngineeringHealth ProfessionsHumanitiesLiberal StudiesSocial Science Graduate Certificates Complimentary Courses Contact Us Need Help? Call 844-302-3886 Email Us Professional Real Estate Program The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) at the University of Memphis offers a Professional Real Estate Program through the Fogelman College of Business & Economics which is the only business college in the Memphis area fully accredited by the prestigious AACSB. The Professional Real Estate Program can be completed in a fully online format and is designed for students who want to obtain training in real estate without obtaining an undergraduate degree in real estate, but are seeking careers in real estate and related industries. This program prepares you for careers in mortgage banking, banking, real estate development, real estate investment, real estate valuation and assessment, government, as well as real estate sales and property management. This program does not require previous training in real estate and is designed for both students and working professionals. The Professional Real Estate Program can be obtained as part of a degree program or as a stand-alone course of study and is independent of any University of Memphis degree program and can be completed in a year. Completion requires 18 credit hours consisting of five classes in real estate and one in finance including: Real Estate Principles, Business Finance, Real Estate Law, Real Estate Finance, Real Estate Appraisal, and Real Estate Investment. This program is not eligible for financial aid and courses from other institutions cannot be transferred into the program. Contact Us Apply Now About UofM Global Learn More Ranked Online Degrees Accreditations Contact Us Degrees and Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Certificates Corporate Partners Complimentary Courses Admissions Apply Now Request Info Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Contact Us Tuition Financial Aid Students Canvas Student Services & Support SmartStart Learning Support Technology Support Advising Register for Courses Experiential Learning Credit Graduation Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.