Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Theatre Arts and Performance Studies: Playwriting MFA school Graduate School department Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location We are looking for students who are committed to the development of their craft; the deep interrogation of the forms and purposes of their art, and of the place of art in the larger world; and a leaning into faithful transformation of society through theatrical action. The Master of Fine Arts in Playwriting is a three–year program. Students take a strong hand in designing their own course of study. Admission Information Inquire Apply Inquiries should be made to Julia Jarcho, Head of Playwriting, Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required TOEFL/IELTS: Required for applicants from non-English speaking countries only; see the Graduate School website for details. Letters of Recommendations: Three Recommendations: At least one must speak directly to your work as a theater artist. Writing Sample: (2) The first should be a complete full-length script for live performance (a.k.a. a play). The second may be a part of a whole, and in any medium; if writing, no more than 15 pages, if visual no more than 15 images, if sound/video, no more than 15 minutes. Personal Statement: What are your writing goals over the next few years, and how can Brown's program serve them? Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline January 4, 2022 Financial Aid The program provides a financial aid package that covers tuition, health fee and health insurance for three years of full-time enrollment. In addition, the program provides stipends for fall and spring semesters for each year of full-time enrollment as well as a stipend for two summers (following first and second years). Funding is contingent on students remaining in good standing. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair Janet Blume janet_blume@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Leon Hilton leon_hilton@brown.edu Contact and Location Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Mailing Address Brown University Box 1897 lisa_damour@brown.edu 401-863-3283 Visit the Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Theatre Arts and Performance Studies: Playwriting Open details for Theatre Arts and Performance Studies: Playwriting Bookmark this Page