Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Police Academy Police Officers In Service Training Curriculum Projects Training Programs Resources Staff Archives Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Criminal Justice Training Program Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University Criminal Justice Training Programs Start your career in the Criminal Justice field with one of Temple's Criminal Justice Training Programs! Learn More Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy (PRLEA) Temple’s PRLEA is a 19-week program consisting of more than 700 hours of professional instruction designed to prepare and enable students to obtain employment with the National Park Service as a seasonal law enforcement ranger. Learn More Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy (PRLEA) Learn More Temple University Police Training Academy Interested in being under the Temple Law Enforcement umbrella? Check out our Temple University Police Academy page to read more about the academy and requirements. Learn More Temple University Police Training Academy Learn More CJTP Training Programs We offer a diverse selection of training programs that you can take advantage of to further your career in law enforcement. We also offer an Instructor Development course that is beneficial for law enforcemnet professionsals and instructors! Learn More CJTP Training Programs Temple University Criminal Justice Training Programs Criminal Justice Training Programs (CJTP), a division of the Temple University Department of Criminal Justice, is an interdisciplinary unit that has conducted professional development programs for a variety of criminal justice agencies and occupations since 1968. Today, over 3,000 criminal justice professionals attend programs offered by CJTP each year including police officers, deputy sheriffs, state constables, legislative security officers, magisterial district court staff, school resource officers, park rangers and crime prevention specialists. Other activities include continuing education programs for agencies allied to the criminal justice system, and the development of curricula including distance-learning. For the latest news and developments, please see the announcements below. New CJTP Course Offering Temple University CJTP will be conducting a Method of Instructions course the week of Oct. 28. The class will be conducted at the Bucks County Public Safety Center and will meet Monday through Friday from 0800 to 1700 hours. This course is designed for current law enforcement officers who are tasked with conducting in-house training or who plan on becoming MPOETC instructors. Topics that will be covered include classroom management, understanding how different students learn in different ways and how to adapt as the instructor, writing and using lesson plans, use of different teaching tools and technology, and class preparation. For registration or questions, contact Rich Vona Bucks County Public Safety at rlvona@buckscounty.org. Seasonal Law Enforcement Training Program Update The National Park Service has officially changed the name of the Seasonal Law Enforcement Training Program to Park Ranger Law Enforcement Academy. There are no changes to the academy—same requirements, same number of training hours, same curriculum. It will take some time to make the name change on digital media, paperwork, applications, etc. Please be patient while we make these updates. The park service also introduced a new academy emblem to reflect the name change. If you have any questions, please contact Assistant Director Christie Willard at cwillard@temple.edu. Go back to ResearchMore in Criminal Justice Training Program Temple University Police Academy Police Officers In Service Training Curriculum Projects Training Programs Resources Staff Archives Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Criminal Justice Training Program 5th Floor Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (267) 468-8600 cjtp@temple.edu CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.