Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Recording Technology Create music with a Recording Technology degree. Take a deep dive into this rapidly evolving field, which makes all types of music possible, whether recorded, streamed, or performed live. Through extensive hands-on experience in our on-campus recording studios or off-site commercial studios, you will develop skills in studio production, recording, mixing, live sound reinforcement and design, and associated digital media technologies. As you fine-tune your skills in the studio or on stage, you will develop your own personal creative style working on projects and collaborating with artists, writers, and musicians. As an Audio Engineering major, you will work directly with a diverse community of talented students, faculty of Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music and professional Memphis artists and musicians. Within our NASM-accredited program, you will gain real-world experience while studying one-on-one with faculty with professional backgrounds in music production/engineering, live sound, tour management, and entertainment law. The Audio Engineering program is designed to instill the tools you will need to succeed in the music industry, all the while training in our cutting-edge recording studios and professionally designed performance spaces. Through our hands-on curriculum and project-based learning, you will develop practical skills while acquiring the critical theoretical knowledge needed to adapt to future technologies. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, visiting artists, and music industry professionals that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into a vibrant music city. Scholarships available. Admission Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Audio Engineering interviews are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. At the audition, candidates will be asked to discuss their musical background, career goals, musical and general areas of interest. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Recording Technology Outcomes Recording Technology students will master audio engineering skills for music production, recording, mixing, and mastering various music and audio industry-related fields. Recording Technology students will achieve professional-level proficiency in recording studio operation, microphone technique, session protocol and etiquette, surround sound, and live sound production leading to marketable skills in all aspects of the music industry and associated fields. Recording Technology students will posses the ability to identify audio anomalies in both recorded and live music, a crucial component of successful recording, mixing and mastering. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Recording Technology required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success Rebekah Wineman (BM ‘13), Technical Director of East Coast Bureaus - Marketplace, American Public Media Group, New York City, NY I GRAMMY nominated audio engineer Ari Morris (BM ‘12) Mixer/Engineer/Producer, Ari Morris Music, Memphis, TN I RIAA Gold and Multi-Platinum Awards Christian Brannan (BM ‘11) Live Sound Engineer, Pro Show Systems, Memphis, TN Jeff Lusk (BM ‘06) Music Supervisor, Warner Chappell Music, Nashville, TN Lucia Kaminsky (BM ‘06) Head of Digital, Sandbox Entertainment Group, Nashville, TN Jason Gillespie (BM ‘05) Head Of Engineering and Production, American Recording Studios, Memphis, TN I GRAMMY nominated recording soundtracks Noah Glenn (BM ‘08) Owner + Creative Director, Perpetual Motion, Memphis, TN Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.