Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Arts in English, BA Explore the Power of Language Through Various Genres and Texts Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) English 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Develop a Foundation in Critical Thinking and Writing As an English major at UCF, explore the power of language. Your coursework will cover critical thought, expression through writing, and knowledge of cultural and literary trends from a number of different perspectives. These perspectives include scholarship, creating original texts, and communication about and through technology. You’ll have the opportunity to align your studies with your personal and professional goals. Choose from three tracks, including creative writing, literature and technical communication. After graduation, pursue a career in fields such as law, editing and publishing, teaching, corporate and not-for-profit management, consulting and information technology. This degree also prepares you to continue your studies in graduate school, whether you choose to continue English or another discipline. Creative Writing Track Explore fiction, poetry and non-fiction prose through the appreciation of existing texts. You’ll also have an opportunity to produce your own texts in these genres. This track’s coursework covers the craft of writing creatively through the study of theory and the close analysis of your own practice. Earn your English Creative Writing degree online or on campus, depending on which option best fits your schedule. Literature Track Develop the ability to read discerningly, think critically and write clearly. This track encompasses the study of literature in its historical, cultural and theoretical contexts. You’ll learn about the ways of people and society, as well as develop a lifelong pleasure to be found in this art form. The English Literature program is offered fully online and also on campus, giving you an opportunity to learn where and how you want. Technical Communication Track Meet the communication needs of the business and scientific community. You’ll learn how to apply the principles of written, spoken and visual communication to a wide variety of situations, using state-of-the-art software and hardware in the departmental Technical Writing Laboratory. Complete your English Technical Communication degree fully online or take classes on campus, providing you with the convenience and flexibility you need. Highlights The English program was named a Best Online Bachelor’s by BestColleges in 2019. SR Education Group ranked the English bachelor’s degree as part of its Best Online Colleges for Value and Most Affordable Online Colleges in 2018. The job growth for English graduates is expected to increase more than 5 percent through 2029. The national average salary for English graduates is $69,000. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Gothic Literature This course will explore the origins and development of Gothic literature in the British Isles. Gothic literature begins in the eighteenth century, as a counterpoint to and reaction against Neoclassicism. It replaced the Neoclassic obsession with order, proportion, reason and beauty with disorder, disproportion, irrational and sublime. The Gothic confronts and embodies the fears of sexuality, foreignness, economic displacement and knowledge. During this semester, we will explore the history and theory of the Gothic. We will read classic Gothic novels and explore them in context of the theories of Burke’s and Kant’s Sublime, and Freud’s psychoanalysis, among others Writing for the Computer Industry Creating different kinds of software manuals or online help systems for the computer industry. Writing Scripts Theory and practice of writing scripts for film and TV. English Skills You'll Learn Strengthen your writing ability and learn how to apply critical thought to the work that you produce. Explore the concepts surrounding cultural understanding and the practices used to implement it in your communications. Develop a range of technical skills for the digital humanities. Career Opportunities Editor English Teacher Journalist Publisher Technical Writer Writer College of Arts and Humanities News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Arts & Culture Dancing with (and Under) the Stars UCF’s KnightRaas dance team generates a link to South Asian heritage whenever and wherever they perform. Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Advice for Young Actors Hollywood actor Adrian R’Mante ’96 discusses his journey from UCF to landing his hit role as Esteban Julio Ricardo Montoya de la Rosa Ramírez on The… Colleges & Campus Makers of the Next New Worlds: UCF’s First Themed Experience Cohort Graduates The first graduating class from UCF’s themed experience track in the theatre Master of Fine Arts program is prepared to create lands and parks that… Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors English (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida