Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Athletic Council Athletic Council Mission The Athletic Council is a presidential council that serves as the liaison between the Clemson University faculty and administration and athletic department. The primary role of the Athletic Council will be to assist the president and Academic-Athletic Oversight Committee in ensuring that the welfare of our student athletes remains a top priority while maintaining the academic integrity of the institution. Purpose The purpose of the Athletic Council will be to review and recommend policies related to and that impact academic issues and integrity as well as student athlete welfare and experience. Additionally, the athletic council will conduct annual reviews of athletic budgets, facility plans, hiring practices, and promoting public relations between the athletic department, University Colleges, and broader campus community. Meetings Athletic Council meets frequently throughout the year, as established by the Executive Council. For the 2020-2021 academic year, meetings are held via zoom from 3:30-5:00 pm. Contact Dr. Jasmine Townsend if you have questions about an upcoming Council meeting. Committee Structure The Athletic Council is comprised of an Executive Committee and three subcommittees. The Executive Committee consists of the Chair of the Athletic Council, the Vice-Chair of Athletic Council, the Chairs of each subcommittee, and the Faculty Athletic Representative (FAR) appointed by the President. The purpose of the Executive Committee is to determine the agenda for the monthly Athletic Council meetings, determine the charges for the subcommittees, and undertake any special initiatives as directed by the President. The 2020-2021 Executive Committee members are as follows: Jasmine Townsend, Chair Mary Anne Raymond, Vice-Chair Janie Hodge, Faculty Athletic Representative Subcommittee Chairs, as explained below Academic Policies and Integrity Chair: William Baldwin The Academic Policies and Integrity committee will address all policies and procedures related to admissions, academic standards, academic support, registration, curriculum issues, and other related issues affecting student athletes. Student Athlete Welfare and Experience Chair: Michael Godfrey The Student Athlete Welfare and Experience committee will address issues related to the overall college experience of student athletes outside of the classroom and on and off of the playing/practice field. This will include but is not limited to issues regarding equity, university resources, and campus community relationships. Administration and Communication Chair: Jack Wolf The Administration and Communication committee will address issues related to the overall administration of athletics that will include annual reviews of athletic budgets, facility plans, hiring practices, and other related issues. Additionally, this committee will create and execute a communication plan to convey appropriate and relevant information from the Athletic Council to the campus community. Questions or Suggestions If you have any suggestions or questions for the Athletic Council and its activities, please forward those to Dr. Jasmine Townsend (jntowns@clemson.edu), Athletic Council Chair, or Dr. Mary Ann Raymond (mar@clemson.edu), Athletic Council Vice-Chair. Voting Members 2020-2021 Membership is determined by a vote of each of the colleges or appointment by either the President or Athletic Director. There are voting and non-voting members. View 2020-2021 Voting Members Voting Members One Regular and one alternate member from each of the seven colleges College of Science 1 College of Business 1 College of Engineering, Computer, and Applied Sciences 1 College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences 1 College of Architecture, Arts, and Humanities 1 College of Forestry, Agriculture, and Life Sciences 1 College of Education 1 President of the Faculty Senate or Appointee 1 President of Graduate Student Government or Appointee 1 Student Athletes from the Student Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC) Revenue sport 1 Non-revenue sport 1 Library faculty 1 Presidential appointees Faculty appointees 2 Student affairs appointee 1 TOTAL VOTING MEMBERS 15 Non-Voting Members Faculty Athletic Rep Athletic Director Assistant Athletic Director Compliance Senior Women's Administrator Director of Academic Support Services 2021 Agendas February Reports Home Members Minutes Contact Us Related Links Administration at Clemson Clemson Tigers Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram