Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Civil Engineering Students Research People News Accreditation Programs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Admissions - APPLY NOW! Take Action Support Civil Engineering Forms Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Civil Engineering Future Students Future Students of Civil Engineering Undergraduate Welcome to the Department of Civil Engineering website at the University of Memphis. The department currently has 14 faculty. The department is the strongest and largest of the civil engineering departments in a public institution in the western Tennessee area, and is experiencing additional growth. We are also thrilled that you are interested in majoring in civil engineering. We offer a strong undergraduate program in Civil Engineering, which is accredited by ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology). Our passing rate of Fundamental of Engineering (FE) was 90% in Fall 2019 and 100% in Spring 2020. Our classes are taught primarily by full-time faculty. While the University of Memphis is a large urban campus, the Department of Civil Engineering has been able to maintain smaller class sizes. This means that not only will the faculty know you by name, but you will easily be able to interact and make friends with your peers. We believe this gives you the best of both worlds - a large university experience as well as a closer-knit community within civil engineering. The Herff College of Engineering provides a unique Engineering Residential College experience designed to promote a living and learning together atmosphere. In addition, supplemental instruction for students in engineering-designated sections of math and free tutoring sessions are available to help students transition successfully to engineering courses. Civil Engineers are responsible for the health, safety, and welfare of the public. Demand for Civil Engineers has always been steady. A Bureau of Labor Statistics report projects that employment for civil engineers is expected to grow by 11 percent, which is faster than the average growth projected for the overall engineering profession, due to population growth and the related need to improve the Nation’s infrastructure. A report published by CNNMoney.com ranks careers in environmental engineering and civil engineering 5th and 6th, respectively, out of the top 100 careers. In addition, the report projects 31% growth in environmental engineering jobs and 24% growth in civil engineering jobs. The University of Memphis is located in the beautiful part of Memphis with an assortment of cultures and entertainment activities. Should you choose to make the University of Memphis your home, there are so many ways to get involved in our department, even as a freshman - from joining one of our student organizations like the American Society of Civil Engineers and Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI) to getting engaged in research, to becoming part of the STEM Ambassador program that works to encourage K-12 students to pursue STEM majors and careers. Being located in a large metroplotian area, students find internship and engineering summer jobs easily, which help them financially and provide them with practical experience. We want you to know that we are proud that you are considering our program, and we hope that you decide to join us. We would love for you to become part of our Tiger family! If you have any questions, would like to take a tour of the department, or would like the opportunity to talk with faculty or students in the program, please do not hesitate to reach out to Shahram Pezeshk, Chair of the Department of Civil Engineering via email (spezeshk@memphis.edu) or phone (901-678-4727). We can arrange in person meeting or a Zoom meeting. Specialized area within the discipline of civil engineering include structural engineering, construction engineering, transportation engineering, environmental engineering, water resources engineering and foundation engineering. Civil Engineers are also active in such diverse fields as urban planning and aerospace engineering. The Department of Civil Engineering Program: At the undergraduate level, the Department of Civil Engineering offers the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering. A student can specialize in the following: Structural Engineering Environmental Engineering Construction Engineering Geotechnical Engineering Water Resources Engineering Transportation Engineering Admissions: Apply Now for Graduate Admission! Apply Now for Undergraduate Admission! The Department of Civil Engineering has the following academic programs: Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE) Accelerated Bachelor to Masters Program Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MS) Doctoral Program in Civil Engineering (Ph.D.) Academic Resources Catalog: Undergraduate Catalog: Graduate Class Listings Scholarships and Employment Herff Undergraduate Scholarships Civil Engineering Graduate Assistantships Herff Graduate Fellowships Career & Employment Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Civil Engineering your home away from home.... Get Involved Register Pay Your Bills Meet Your Faculty and Staff Plan Your Semester with Your Academic Advisor Join The Honors Program Tutoring Services Secure the Right Technology Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.