Skip to main content Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Center for Biomedical Engineering Search form Search About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program News Events About Facilities Centers + Initiatives CBME Mission Contact Us People Primary Faculty & Staff Committees Affiliated Faculty Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Research Academics BME Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Program Admission Requirements Apply Now Program Overview ScM Programs Admission Requirements 5th Year Apply Now Financing Program Overviews Request Information Careers BMEB Resources News Events About About Brown’s Center for Biomedical Engineering This center is the only joint academic program of the School of Engineering and the Division of Biology and Medicine. Our research improves human health through cross-disciplinary studies and educational activities that integrate the engineering, physical sciences, life sciences, and clinical practice. CBME also oversees and administers degree programs in Biomedical Engineering for undergraduates, masters students, and PhD students. Our faculty are drawn from across the campus academic departments as well as the School of Engineering and the clinical departments of the Division of Biology and Medicine. Their dual status as CBME faculty and members of academic departments makes them well poised to bring the very latest in their disciplines to bear on the complex and multi-disciplinary problems of biomedical engineering. Many of our researchers bridge the gap between clinical and basic research through interaction with Brown's affiliated hospitals including Rhode Island Hospital, Providence Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and Miriam Hospital. The research, teaching, and service activities of the CBME community are diverse. However, much of our fundamental capability can be captured in four topics of nationally recognized excellence: Mechanobiology, Regenerative Engineering, Neuroengineering, and Biomaterials and Sensing. Please see the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering for a more extensive description of the field of Biomedical Engineering. CBME Facilities Brown University provides an outstanding environment for high-impact research in biomedical engineering in part because of the wide range of instrumentation, skilled researchers and shared technologies available to its students and faculty. These resources are distributed across the Brown campus and nearby hospitals and the most commonly used facilities are listed below. A searchable database, CoresRI, also exists for locating specific equipment contained in core facilities throughout the state of Rhode Island. Some facilities provide standard services for a flat fee, others provide open-access along with training, others are restricted to collaborative research efforts only, while others are for educational purposes only. Centers + Initiatives Brown University is internationally recognized for its unique academic culture which seeks to solve problems by integrating knowledge from many traditional disciplines. Centers and Institutes across campus are one strategy for bringing together researchers to focus on high-impact problem solving. The CBME has many close interactions with these groups which are listed below. CBME Values & Mission Four core values shape our organization and the actions we take to support our talented researchers: 1. Mentorship 2. Integrity 3. Diversity 4. Scholarly Impact “… the formation at Brown of a Center of Biomedical Engineering as an administrative academic unit to promote and nurture undergraduate and graduate programs in this area and to facilitate interdisciplinary research in the field …” Leadership + Staff Vicki Colvin Director of the Center for Biomedical Engineering Vernon K. Krieble Professor of Chemistry Professor of Engineering Celinda Kofron Associate Director of the Center for Biomedical Engineering Undergraduate Concentration Advisor Lecturer of Engineering Kareen Coulombe Director of Graduate Study Associate Professor of Engineering Marissa Gray Master's Program Director Undergraduate Concentration Advisor Assistant Professor of Engineering (Research) Anita Shukla Director of Undergraduate Study Associate Professor of Engineering Committees The CBME executive committee is the primary management body for the center. The Dean of Biology and Medicine as well as the Dean of Engineering both serve on the EC along with the Director, the Director of Graduate Studies and two rotating faculty members. This group meets quarterly to review the progress of CBME and oversee the center’s budget. Current 2017-2018 Members: Professor Vicki Colvin (Director), Dean Elias, Dean Larson, Professor Joseph Crisco, Professor Arto Nurmikko, Professor Eric Darling, Dr. Celinda Kofron (ex-officio), Wendy McHugh (ex-officio) The operating committee of the CBME meets regularly and includes the CBME director, the associate director of CBME, the Directors of Graduate/Master’s/Undergraduate studies, and relevant staff to coordinate events, student admissions, and other ongoing functions. Current 2017-2018 Members: Professor Vicki Colvin (Director and Director of the Undergraduate Program), Dr. Celinda Kofron (Associate Director), Dr. Eric Darling (Director of the Graduate Program), Jessica Bello (Graduate Program Administrator, MPPB), Melodie Vincenty (Masters Program Administrator) The Graduate Program Committee oversees the PhD and ScM graduate programs. It approves official documentation changes and other program-wide issues of importance. This Committee is also the ultimate body for deciding termination of students from the program. Additionally one member of the group is an engineering faculty member who serves as a liason to the Engineering Graduate Council. Current 2017-2018 Members: Professor Eric Darling, Professoer Celinda Kofron, Professor David Borton (EGC Liason), Professor Kareen Coulombe, Professor Vicki Colvin, and Professor Trey Crisco. The faculty committee consists of all primary CBME faculty where primary is defined as faculty who are active within CBME, attend CBME meetings regularly, and have served as a mentor to CBME students within the past five years. Monthly lunchtime meetings during the academic year allow for discussion and review of program policies, collaborative proposal planning, and general research activities among the group. A current 2017-2018 faculty list can be found here. The external advisory board meets every other year to provide strategic input and advice on the short-term and long-term goals of the center. Members are drawn from prestigious academic institutions, relevant industry, and government. Contact Center for Biomedical Engineering Brown University Box A-2 Arnold Lab 91 Waterman Street, Suite 211 Providence, RI 02912 +1-401-863-6778 [email protected] Quicklinks Apply Now Research Faculty Academics Give to CBME Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat