Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School 1) Activate your Brown account Graduate School Skip to Navigation 1) Activate your Brown account As soon as you receive instructions to activate, or: By June 1 for degree programs that start in September By May 1 for degree programs that start in June and July By January 1 for degree programs that start in January Check your personal email for instructions to activate your Brown account with your Brown ID. For issues, see the IT Knowledgebase or contact the Computing and Information Services IT Service Center. After activation, we recommend you: Add a mobile number to Banner. This allows you to reset your Brown password should you forget it, and also ensures you are notified should an emergency occur at Brown. To do this, log in to selfservice.brown.edu and click Personal Information. Log in to your email. You can simply visit gmail.com and log in with your Brown email address and the password you chose for Google services. Setup Two-Step Verification. The first time you log in to a Brown service like Banner, you will be prompted to set up a means of verification, such as a phone number. You can log into MyAccount after setup to add additional devices or phone numbers. Read more about two-step verification at brown.edu/go/twostep Note for international students: International numbers are acceptable and they should be entered with a + in front of the country code. If you don't plan to get a US cell phone once in the country, you can use the smartphone app over wifi or without a connection, print a sheet of bypass codes from MyAccount, or pick up a token from the IT Service Center. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants