Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ News Archives 2022 News and Events 2022 Baugh Foundation The Baugh Foundation grants $2.7 million to Perkins Baptist House of Studies March 01, 2022 Advancing Baptist ministry training at SMU The Baugh Foundation grants $2.7 million to Perkins Baptist House of Studies DALLAS (SMU) – The Baptist House of Studies at the SMU Perkins School of Theology has been awarded a $2.7 million, three-year grant from the Eula Mae and John Baugh Foundation, a Texas-based philanthropy committed to supporting the work of faith-based, nonprofit organizations. The contribution will fund approximately 10 full-time Baugh Scholars enrolled in Perkins master’s, Doctor of Ministry and Doctor of Pastoral Music degree programs within the Baptist House of Studies. In addition to covering full tuition and fees, the grant will provide emergency aid for students enrolled in the program. The Baugh Foundation’s commitment supports the University’s $1.5 billion campaign, SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow, particularly the campaign goal to empower outstanding students. “Programs like the Baugh Scholars grow fellowship and scholarship within the Perkins School, helping its students cultivate wisdom and personal development,” said SMU President R. Gerald Turner. “We are gratified by the Baugh Foundation’s support for the academic and spiritual pursuits of our students.” Founded in 2019, the Perkins Baptist House of Studies fosters a community for ministerial students, faculty and staff who identify with the Baptist and Free Church traditions. A program rather than a physical house, the Perkins Baptist House is a spiritual haven that supports and encourages students as they pursue their academic and ecclesial training in an ecumenical and university-based seminary. “The Baugh Foundation is enthusiastic about the opportunity to support the development of the Baptist House of Studies at Perkins School of Theology,” said Baugh Foundation Vice President Jackie Baugh Moore. “Training the next generation of pastors, scholars and faith leaders in an ecumenical and inclusive setting matches the challenges of the culture in which Baptist and Free Church leaders will be serving. We are grateful for the visionary leadership of the school and look forward to development of those who will serve our churches and faith-based organizations in the years to come.” The funding from the Baugh Foundation will move Perkins, one of 13 United Methodist seminaries, into a preeminent position to train Baptist clergy in a setting where they engage with peers from diverse denominations and backgrounds. Craig C. Hill, Leighton K. Farrell Endowed Dean of Perkins School of Theology, believes the Baugh Foundation grant is important both for the Baptist House of Studies and for all Baptist students enrolled at Perkins. “Our Baptist House of Studies is off to an excellent start, and this funding will empower it to flourish, providing essential financial support for students while also creating an intellectual and spiritual home for a community of Baptist seminarians,” Hill said. Through the Baptist House of Studies, Baptist students in Perkins and those from Free Church traditions (such as the United Church of Christ, the Christian Church/Disciples of Christ Mennonite and nondenominational churches) can participate in mentoring, internships and fellowships. In addition, students are offered a concentration in Baptist studies, including teaching Baptist and Free Church history, theology and polity. The founding director of Baptist House of Studies is renowned New Testament scholar and Altshuler Distinguished Teaching Professor Jaime Clark-Soles. “This new grant will be transformational for the Baptist House,” said Clark-Soles. “It will provide scholarship and programming funds, enabling us to compete for high-quality students from a wider geographic area. It will also allow us to dramatically intensify our outreach and the awareness of what we have to offer, elevating Perkins as a premier destination for a robust Baptist theological education.” The Rev. George Mason, senior pastor of Wilshire Baptist Church in Dallas and lead advisor of the Baptist House of Studies Board of Visitors, echoed the importance of the grant for Perkins. “This grant will propel the Baptist program at Perkins, giving us a competitive edge in recruiting students for multiple degree plans,” said Mason. “The more students we welcome in diverse degree programs and the more we provide scholarship support, the greater the grapevine witness about Perkins. Perkins will be seen as the place to go for progressive Baptist education, and for networking within the denomination and beyond. We expect the program to gain great momentum with funds from this generous grant.” ### The Eula Mae and John Baugh Foundation Based in Houston, Texas, the Baugh Foundation supports nonprofit organizations that aid those in need through financial assistance and partnerships. The foundation supports causes ranging from meeting basic human needs and aiding children to bolstering faith communities and strengthening higher education. Additionally, it supports inclusivity and arts and enrichment initiatives across the United States. Perkins School of Theology Perkins School of Theology, founded in 1911, is one of five official University-related schools of theology of the United Methodist Church. Degree programs include the Master of Divinity, Master of Sacred Music, Master of Theological Studies, Master of Arts in Ministry, Master of Theology, Doctor of Ministry and Doctor of Pastoral Music as well as the Ph.D., in cooperation with the Graduate Program in Religious Studies at SMU’s Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences. SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and more than 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities and the world. Building on its history of excellence, the University has launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – a multiyear $1.5 billion campaign to empower outstanding students, to enrich teaching and research and to enhance our campus and community. An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share