Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Graduate Student Organizations Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Research and Innovation Week Orientation Professional Development Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ☰ The Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Funding Graduate Student Travel Grant Graduate Student Travel Grant Guidelines The maximum amount of a grant is $750. Travel grants cannot be awarded retroactively; proposals must be submitted before travel. Only one grant per student per academic year is awarded or funded. Please prioritize your proposals accordingly. Requests with matching funds from other sources have a higher priority. This grant will only fund conference travel to present an accepted paper or poster (applications without accepted papers or posters are ineligible for this grant) Applications are accepted year-round, and must be submitted at least 10 business days prior to travel (or 10 business days prior to virtual event). The proposals should be sponsored by the department chair and the graduate advisor. Department chair and graduate advisor are requested not to sponsor students who could be supported from other sources such as sponsored research grants and contracts. Before applying for this grant, notify your department administrator. The department will give you instructions regarding any pre-travel requirements. Procedures vary by school. If you are receiving funding from your department, they may use different procedures for reimbursement than the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. Please be sure you know your department’s requirements before your departure. Procedure Using the application form, please attach the following items to your submission in a PDF only. Incomplete applications will not be considered. Questions can be emailed to travelgrants@smu.edu. Combine the following documents as a PDF for your application: A proposal describing the activity and how this grant will help in your program - limited to one page. A short vita - limited to one page. Completed Travel Grant Form Your abstract submission (accepted by the conference) with proof of acceptance (or other proof of participation in a virtual event). Application must be submitted at least 10 business days prior to travel (or 10 business days prior to virtual event). Travel Grant Application Funding Meet our Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share