College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences About Dean's Office Diversity Special Committee on Race and Social Justice Black History Month Community Partnerships Contact Us Academics Departments & Schools Programs & Centers Academic Centers Clinical Services Initiatives Students CLASSmates Peer Assistants Undergraduate Studies Post-Baccalaureate Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Dean's List / Student Excellence Outstanding CLASS Undergraduate Student Nomination Form University Commencement for the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences CLASS Scholarships Career Services Internship Faculty/Staff Department Chair and Center Director Appointments Distinctions Faculty Research Expertise CLASS Research Dean's Grants College Governance Office of Educational Technology Sedona's Faculty Activity Reporting Resources News & Events Office of Marketing and Communication CLASS Calendar CLASS All-Stars CLASS Newsletters News Archives Past Events Giving The Latest Updates on COVID-19 TOGETHER, WE RISE TOGETHER, WE SOAR Welcome to CLASS The College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences (CLASS) is the heart of the University, dedicated to spurring intellectual curiosity, creativity, and transformative education. Encompassing humanities, social sciences, and health sciences, CLASS is truly a mosaic of disciplines that broaden perspectives, inspire potential, and advance possibilities yet unimagined. Latest News News Archives Third-Annual Showcase Highlights Importance of Houston Film Industry and the Talent on UH’s Campus The Media and the Moving Image initiative hosted its third-annual showcase this semester, spotlighting nearly 30 student projects and awarding five University of Houston faculty members. The 2022 award winners are Jovan Slaughter for the podcast episode, “Feeding the Third Ward,” Aixa Tovar for the original screenplay, Miguelito, and Angeline Abrera, for her video interview with activist author Holly Charles Pearson. A New Building Means a Fresh Start for COMD After over 20 years in the Clinical Research Service Building, the Communication Sciences and Disorders’ new building is a “place where people enjoy coming to work,” department director says. Clinic and student operations have benefitted the most from the big move. Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification A University of Houston study finds psychological trauma resulting from migrant children being separated for long periods of time from their loved ones lingers long after they are reunited and can lead to physical consequences as well. CLASS Professors Carla Sharp and Sarah Fishman Receive Moores Professorships CLASS Professors Carla Sharp, Ph.D. and Sarah Fishman, Ph.D., have joined the prestigious ranks of the Moores Professorship. The Moores Professorship Program was established to honor full-time faculty who have achieved the rank of full professor at the University of Houston and who have made outstanding contributions in research, scholarship and/or creative activities, teaching and service. Coogs Springing Into Commencement The latest University of Houston graduates will walk the stage during Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies taking place May 12 – 15. More than 5,900 undergraduate, graduate, professional and doctoral degrees will be conferred during 17 college convocations conducted on campus. Science Has Spoken: Tell the Truth on Facebook or Risk Your Reputation Research from the Personality, Emotion, and Social Cognition Lab at the University of Houston reveals that just like in face-to-face relationships, intellectually humble behavior, like admitting when you are wrong on Facebook and other social media, leads to better impression formation online. UH Student-Athlete Earns Prestigious Scholarship for Public Service Junior psychology major Sondos Moursy was one of 20 students just selected as a Key into Public Service Scholar by The Phi Beta Kappa (PBK) Society, the nation’s most prestigious academic honor society. Moursy initiated a weekly arts program for previously incarcerated women in Houston. Tolliver Selected as National Humanities Center Fellow Cedric R. Tolliver, UH associate professor of English, has been selected as a National Humanities Center Fellow. He will work to complete his manuscript, which addresses a fundamental tension at the heart of racial integration in the U.S. over the last 70 years. Firefighters With PTSD Likely to Have Relationship Problems The stress firefighters face takes a toll. New research finds that those with post-traumatic stress disorder are likely to have relationship problems due to an inability to regulate emotions. UH Hosting International Wheelchair Tennis Tournament The University of Houston's Adaptive Athletics program will be hosting its second International Cougar Open Wheelchair Tennis Tournament this week. New UH Digital Humanities Project Eyes Ambitious Goal: Put Historic Women’s Conference on the Map The conversations and planning that took place at the 1977 National Women’s Conference shifted national discourse about women’s rights for decades to come. Now, a team of University of Houston scholars and students has launched a national effort to preserve the NWC’s history and significance. Female Syrian Refugees in Houston Bear the Brunt of Circumstances A new University of Houston study finds female Syrian refugees in Houston suffer higher mental stress and are sadder than their male counterparts. UH Faculty Addressing Impact of Russia-Ukraine Conflict On March 10, a panel of University of Houston experts will address the Ukraine crisis and its ramifications on world peace, international economies and the shift of power among global superpowers. “Russia’s War in Ukraine” will feature insights from University of Houston historians, political scientists and foreign affairs experts. UH Alumni Commit $300K to Support Gender & Sexuality Equity in Houston Native Houstonians Sally and Bill Russ have established the Sally J. and William E. Russ Endowment for Research on Women, Gender & Sexuality in the Institute for Research on Women, Gender and Sexuality (IRWGS) in the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. Their $300,000 gift will help IRWGS researchers collect data and provide analysis in partnership with area service organizations and agencies that deal with women, gender and sexuality issues. Ultimately, this work seeks to transform policies in Houston toward equity. Gift from Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church Honors Legacies of Rev. William A. Lawson, James Conyers Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church, located in Houston’s Third Ward, graciously increases an existing endowment for the University of Houston College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences to support students in the department of African American studies. CLASS Professor’s Documentary Nominated for NAACP Image Award University of Houston Visiting Scholar Greg Carter has produced over 30 feature films, his acclaimed skills earning an induction into the Texas Filmmakers Hall of Fame and a recent documentary nomination for an NAACP Image Award. CLASS Book Club Events View Full Calendar Events Archive CLASS MEDIA MENTIONS Media Mentions Archive ABC 13 UH to introduce Mexican American and Latino/Latina Applied Studies B.A. degree next Spring Jeronimo Cortina, Ph.D., Associate Director of the Center for Mexican American Studies FOX 26 How Is Social Media Contributing to Violent Extremism? Matthew J. Clavin, Ph.D., Department of History Austin American-Statesman Abbott, Cruz Split Endorsements in 3 Central Texas House Districts' GOP Runoff Races Brandon Rottinghaus, Ph.D., Department of Political Science RealDaily Fat Because We’re Stressed, and Stressed Because We’re Fat College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, Department of Health and Human Performance ABC 13 Rising Food Costs Make Houstonians Cut Back on Extracurricular Activities, According to New Report Christopher Clarke, Ph.D., Department of Economics ABC 13 Why the AANHPI Acronym Brings Mixed Feelings for Some Within the Community An T. Nguyen, Ph.D., Media and the Moving Image Houston Chronicle ‘Don’t Be So Brown!’ Latinos, Discriminated by Latinos Almost as Much as by Others (Subscription) Jeronimo Cortina, Ph.D., Department of Political Science Health Abortion Is Still Legal in the U.S.—Here's Where the States Currently Stand Sheila M. Katz, Ph.D., Department of Sociology Houston Public Media I SEE U, Episode 47: What U Focus On, U Become Laura Marshall Clark, Lecturer, Department of Comparative Cultural Studies ABC 13 History of Cinco de Mayo: More than just Mexican food and drinks Raul Ramos, Ph.D., Department of History FOX 26 Here's How Much Interest Rate Hikes Will Cost You Christopher Clarke, Ph.D., Department of Economics The Dallas Morning News Beto O’Rourke, Democrats Bring Abortion, Roe v. Wade into Texas Governor’s Race (Subscription) Brandon Rottinghaus, Ph.D., Department of Political Science KHOU If the Supreme Court Overturns Roe v. Wade, How Will It Affect the Upcoming Elections? Brandon Rottinghaus, Ph.D., Department of Political Science The Dallas Morning News Texas Railroad Commission Dark Horse Bucks Convention with Her ‘Unicorn’ Candidacy (Subscription) Brandon Rottinghaus, Ph.D., Department of Political Science Fox 26 Filming Begins at UH to Spread Alzheimer's Awareness to Hispanic Community Jack J. Valenti School of Communication, College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Houston Chronicle Rep. Dan Crenshaw's Fundraising Powerhouse Could be Gateway to More Power in Washington (Subscription) Brandon Rottinghaus, Ph.D., Department of Political Science Facts & Figures 2,000Course Offerings 688Faculty Members 70+Degree Offerings 14Academic Departments 12,000+Students University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies