Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Baylor>Giving to Baylor>About Us>News News Apr 14 2022 Baylor Mourns Passing of Beloved Former First Lady Joy Reynolds WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – The Baylor University family is grieving the loss of beloved former First Lady Joy Reynolds. The wife of Baylor’s 11th President and later Chancellor and President Emeritus, the late Herbert H. Reynolds, Mrs. Reynolds fulfilled her role as First Lady with boundless grace and energy. Apr 5 2022 Baylor University Announces $3 Million Gift Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a $3 million gift from Jim and Sharon Harrod of Horseshoe Bay, Texas, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to support exceptional scholarship and transformational learning within the Honors College and the study of great thinkers who have stood at the intersection of the Christian faith and culture at large. Mar 29 2022 Graduate and Professional Programs Ranked in U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 Edition of Best Graduate Schools WACO, Texas (March 29, 2022) – Several Baylor University graduate and professional programs were among those nationally ranked in the 2023 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools rankings, released March 29. Mar 23 2022 Who are the Fosters — namesakes of Baylor’s new Foster Pavilion? To the most recent generation of Baylor Family members, the Foster name is synonymous with campus growth and exciting new facilities. The Paul L. Foster Success Center brought academic and career counseling and support together in Sid Rich back in 2007, and the Foster Campus for Business and Innovation provided a stunning new home for the … Feb 18 2022 Baylor Regents Celebrate Recent University Momentum, Focus on Next Phase of Give Light Campaign and Achieving R1 Status WACO, Texas (Feb. 18, 2022) – During its regular quarterly meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents celebrated the University reaching Research 1 status and eclipsing the $1.1 billion goal of the Give Light philanthropic campaign, received an update on the Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion and participated in a discussion about Baylor’s holistic approach to student success. Feb 7 2022 Baylor Researchers Receive $2.7 Million Grant from John Templeton Foundation to Study Virtue Formation Across Higher Education Contexts WACO, Texas (Feb. 7, 2022) – Baylor University researchers will examine virtue formation in higher education moral communities, both secular and faith-based, with a $2.7 million grant from the John Templeton Foundation. Feb 3 2022 Baylor University Surpasses $1.1 Billion Milestone in Give Light Campaign WACO, Texas (Feb. 3, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a significant milestone as gifts and pledges to the Give Light Campaign have surpassed the initial goal of $1.1 billion, marking the campaign as the largest and most successful fundraising effort in the University’s 177-year history. Feb 1 2022 Baylor University Names Paul and Alejandra Foster as 2022 Founders Medal Recipients WACO, Texas (Feb. 1, 2022) – Baylor University today announced Paul (BBA ’79) and Alejandra Foster of El Paso, Texas, as the recipients of the 2022 Baylor University Founders Medal. Jan 6 2022 Foster Pavilion to give Baylor basketball programs a new riverfront home Baylor’s new Foster Pavilion — the coming home for men’s and women’s basketball — will soon join McLane Stadium along the Brazos riverfront. Specifically, the arena will be built diagonally across I-35 and the Brazos River from McLane, adjacent to Robinson Tower and becoming the latest addition to a projected $700 million project along the … Dec 21 2021 Baylor University and City of Waco Agree to Partner on Dynamic Riverfront Location of the Paul and Alejandra Foster Basketball Pavilion WACO, Texas (Dec. 21, 2021) – Baylor University and the City of Waco have announced an initial agreement to partner on the riverfront location of the Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion, which like its football predecessor McLane Stadium will be in the highest visibility area of the city’s growing Riverfront district. Dec 16 2021 Baylor University Earns Prestigious Research 1 Status from Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education WACO, Texas (Dec. 16, 2021) – Baylor University has been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Dec 9 2021 Baylor University Announces First Faculty Endowment for Nursing School WACO, Texas (Dec. 9, 2021) – Baylor University today announced a gift of $1.5 million from the Deerbrook Charitable Trust of Chevy Chase, Maryland, and Harris and Anne Clark of Dallas to establish the Louise Herrington School of Nursing’s (LHSON) first endowed faculty position. Nov 18 2021 Baylor University Announces New Matching Program, Transformational Support for the Wesley House of Studies at Truett Seminary WACO, Texas (Nov. 18, 2021) – Baylor University today announced the first chair established through the Baylor Illuminate Chair Matching Program, which supports the Give Light Campaign’s goals to increase endowed faculty positions. An anonymous gift of $1.5 million established the first chair through the program, The William J. Abraham Endowed Chair, to support George W. Truett Theological Seminary’s Wesley House of Studies. An additional gift of $1 million to establish a scholarship was made by Jeff (BBA ’86) and Debbie (BS ’87) Wooley of Woodway to support the program’s students. Nov 13 2021 Baylor University Announces Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Naming WACO, Texas (Nov. 13, 2021) – Baylor University today announced the naming of the Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion in honor of Paul (BBA ’79) and Alejandra Foster, of El Paso, Texas. The naming is in recognition of Paul and Alejandra’s gift of $100 million in 2019 to the Give Light Campaign, which launched the public fundraising campaign for the Basketball Pavilion, home to Baylor’s National Championship basketball teams. Nov 11 2021 Baylor University Announces Naming of Mary Jo Robbins Clinic for Autism Research and Practice WACO, Texas (Nov. 11, 2021) – Baylor University today announced the naming of the Mary Jo Robbins Clinic for Autism Research and Practice in honor of Mary Jo Robbins of Houston. The announcement is in recognition of the support and continued efforts of William K. “Bill” and Mary Jo Robbins, a couple who has spent their lifetimes championing excellence in health care. Nov 8 2021 Timeline and Additional Details Announced for Fudge Football Operations Center WACO, Texas – Baylor University today announced a construction timeline and additional details on the Fudge Football Operations Center, with groundbreaking scheduled by summer 2022. Nov 5 2021 Baylor Regents Affirm Next Five-Year Framework for Illuminate Strategic Plan, Including Hiring 100 Faculty, Completing Residence Hall Renovations, Athletics Capital Projects WACO, Texas (Nov. 5, 2021) – During its regular fall meeting, the Baylor University Board of Regents affirmed the framework for the next five years of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan, including hiring 100 new faculty to accelerate the University toward Research 1 status as the preeminent Christian research university. Oct 29 2021 Baylor and Harvard Researchers Partner in Long-Term, Global Study of Human Flourishing WACO, Texas (Oct. 29, 2021) – Social and biomedical scientists at Harvard University and Baylor University have joined forces to launch the $43.4 million, five-year “Global Flourishing Study” (GFS), the largest initiative of its kind to investigate the factors that influence human flourishing throughout the world. It also represents largest funded research project in the University’s history. Oct 21 2021 Baylor University Announces $2 Million Gift to Launch Baylor in Los Angeles Program WACO, Texas (Oct. 21, 2021) – Baylor University today announced a $2 million gift from Baylor alumnus Matthew B. Lindner (B.A. ’12) of Cincinnati, Ohio, to support the Department of Film and Digital Media (FDM). The Lindner Endowment for Film and Digital Media will support the Baylor in L.A. program, a residential learning opportunity in Los Angeles for FDM students – currently in early planning stages – that will provide internship and experiential learning opportunities for program participants. Sep 24 2021 Baylor University Celebrates National Research Administrator Day as University Advances R1 Research Progress WACO, Texas (Sept. 24, 2021) – As Baylor University continues substantial progress toward Research 1 recognition among the nation’s top research institutions, the University today is honoring all staff who work behind the scenes to support research across the campus on National Research Administrator Day. Sep 21 2021 Baylor makes U.S. News’ short list of best schools for both undergrad teaching & research Only a fraction of the schools U.S. News reviews each year come out with high scores for both undergraduate teaching and undergraduate research opportunities. Baylor now ranks among the top 40 nationally in both categories — part of a short list filled with schools such as Duke, Harvard, MIT, Stanford and Yale. Overall, U.S. News … Sep 16 2021 Baylor University Announces New Chair Created to Study Food Security WACO, Texas (Sept. 16, 2021) – Baylor University today announced a $1.5 million gift from Jim and Tammy Snee of Austin, Minnesota, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to lead research efforts addressing food security through the Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty. Sep 1 2021 Baylor University Mourns Passing of Longtime Friend, Philanthropist Jane Meyer WACO, Texas (Sept. 1, 2021) – Baylor University is mourning beloved Baylor Family member Jane Meyer, of Waco, who passed away Aug. 21. Honored as a Baylor Founder for her support of the University, Meyer’s strong Christian faith informed her philanthropy, and as president of the Paul and Jane Meyer Family Foundation, she built upon a legacy of generosity toward Baylor’s students through giving to scholarships, faculty funding and facilities. Aug 25 2021 Baylor University Celebrates Newly Renovated Tidwell Bible Building WACO, Texas (Aug. 25, 2021) – During a ceremonial ribbon cutting, Baylor University today celebrated the opening of the newly-renovated Tidwell Bible Building, one of many historic buildings that make up the core of the University’s campus. Aug 23 2021 Baylor University Libraries Surpasses Campaign Milestone Baylor University Libraries has surpassed $10 million in gifts and pledges of support, exceeding its initial fundraising goal set at the beginning of the Give Light Campaign. Nearly 900 alumni, parents, staff, faculty and others have given to Baylor Libraries as part of Give Light. Are you looking for more News? Archives About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Testing Mode About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift