Skip to main content Skip to main navigation George W. Truett Theological Seminary Menu About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift Baylor>George W. Truett Seminary>About>News News Apr 14 2022 Baylor University’s Truett Seminary Appoints Dr. Jamal-Dominique Hopkins as Associate Professor of Christian Scriptures Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary Dean Todd D. Still has announced the appointment of Jamal-Dominique Hopkins, PhD, as Associate Professor of Christian Scriptures. In addition to Scriptures classes, Dr. Hopkins will teach courses within Truett’s Black Church Studies Program. He will join the Seminary faculty on August 1, 2022. Apr 1 2022 Baylor University’s Truett Seminary Appoints Dr. Matthew D. Kim as Professor of Practical Theology and Raborn Chair of Pastoral Leadership Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary Dean Todd D. Still, PhD, has announced the appointment of Matthew D. Kim, PhD, as Professor of Practical Theology and the Hubert H. and Gladys S. Raborn Chair of Pastoral Leadership. He will join the Truett Seminary faculty on August 1, 2022, following the retirement of Dr. R. Robert Creech, effective May 31, 2022. Mar 16 2022 Christian Environmental Stewardship and Its Critics On March 16th , 2022, Baylor in Washington was pleased to host a panel discussion about the theological and scientific motivations for environmental stewardship. Mar 11 2022 Baylor University’s Truett Seminary Appoints Dr. Daniel Lee Hill as Assistant Professor of Christian Theology Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary Dean Todd D. Still has announced the appointment of Daniel Lee Hill, PhD, as Assistant Professor of Christian Theology. He will join the Truett Seminary faculty on August 1, 2022, following the retirement of Dr. Roger Olson, effective December 31, 2021. Mar 7 2022 Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty Receives Gift for Seminary Initiative A $455k grant from an anonymous donor will allow the Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty (BCHP) to partner with and provide support for George W. Truett Theological Seminary’s Master of Arts degree in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice (TEFJ). Feb 16 2022 Truett Faculty Share Influential Professors, Preachers, Authors for Black History Month For Black History Month, we asked our Truett Seminary faculty to share about the Black professors, preachers, authors, etc. who have made an impact in their work as teachers, researchers, and ministers. Feb 10 2022 Baylor University to Host Three-Part Sequence of Programs on Confronting Racism in the White Church February 17-19, 2022, Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary will host “Do We Want to Be Healed?” Racism in the White Church, the first in a three-year sequence of programs addressing racism in the white church and seeking God’s justice. This initial event will offer resources and inspiration for those interested in or in the beginning stages of redressing racism in the white church, with a particular focus on racism against the Black community. Feb 2 2022 Truett Seminary Faculty Member Receives Grant to Complete Biography on 20th Century African American Preacher Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary is pleased to share that Dr. Jared E. Alcántara, Associate Professor of Preaching and Holder of the Paul W. Powell Endowed Chair in Preaching, has received a $40,000 grant through the Louisville Institute's Sabbatical Grant for Researchers (SGR) program. Jan 19 2022 Spring 2022 Convocation Address: "What Time Is It?" Dean Todd D. Still offered the Spring 2022 Convocation Address for Baylor University's George W. Truett Theological Seminary on January 18, 2022. Jan 5 2022 Baylor preparing to launch master’s degree in theology, ecology and food justice Baptist News Global interviews Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program Director Jenny Howell, PhD, on the launch of the new program at Baylor University's Truett Seminary. Dec 22 2021 Truett Seminary: 2021 Year in Review Even amid an ongoing pandemic, 2021 proved to be a year full of noteworthy and impactful developments for Baylor University's George W. Truett Theological Seminary. Dec 15 2021 Baylor Receives $1 Million Lilly Endowment Grant to Launch ‘Future Church Project’ Baylor University has received a $1 million grant from Lilly Endowment to help George W. Truett Theological Seminary launch multifaceted project designed to research and respond to the expressed needs and challenges of the church. Dec 9 2021 Christianity Today: Bill Glass, Football Star Who Changed Evangelical Approach to Sports and Prisons FSI Assistant Director Paul Putz co-authored this reflection on the life and legacy of Baylor All-American Bill Glass, who pioneered new forms of sports ministry. Nov 18 2021 Baylor University Announces New Matching Program, Transformational Support for the Wesley House of Studies at Truett Seminary WACO, Texas (Nov. 18, 2021) – Baylor University today announced the first chair established through the Baylor Illuminate Chair Matching Program, which supports the Give Light Campaign’s goals to increase endowed faculty positions. An anonymous gift of $1.5 million established the first chair through the program, The William J. Abraham Endowed Chair, to support George W. Truett Theological Seminary’s Wesley House of Studies. An additional gift of $1 million to establish a scholarship was made by Jeff (BBA ’86) and Debbie (BS ’87) Wooley of Woodway to support the program’s students. Nov 17 2021 The Cord: Stories from the Faith and Sports Institute This article for The Cord magazine looks at a few of the ways athletes, coaches, ministers, and scholars have engaged with the Faith & Sports Institute and found a unique hub of resources and opportunities at the intersection of faith and sports. Nov 12 2021 Truett Celebrates Board Approval of New Degree Programs On November 5, 2021, the Baylor University Board of Regents announced the approval of three new degree programs at George W. Truett Theological Seminary: the Master of Arts in Theology and Sports Studies, the Master of Arts in Contextual Witness and Innovation, and the Master of Arts in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice. Nov 5 2021 Baylor Board of Regents Approves Significantly Reduced Tuition Rate for Seminary Students On Friday, November 5, 2022, the Baylor University Board of Regents approved and announced a significant decrease in tuition for master's-level degree programs at George W. Truett Theological Seminary and extended this reduced rate to all seminary doctoral programs. Thus, the "sticker price" of a Truett education for the 2022-2023 academic year has decreased from a projected $1,071 per credit hour to $690 per credit hour. Oct 19 2021 Baylor University Mourns Passing of Inaugural Wesley House of Studies Director Billy Abraham Baylor University and George W. Truett Theological Seminary are mourning the death of Rev. William “Billy” J. Abraham, D.Phil., inaugural Director of Truett’s Wesley House of Studies, who passed away Thursday, October 7. As one of the most highly regarded Wesleyan scholars of our time, Dr. Abraham was skillfully leading Truett Seminary’s recently launched program to prepare Wesleyan students, especially Methodists, for ministry within their given denominational contexts. Oct 15 2021 Memorial Service Information for Dr. Billy Abraham The memorial service for Dr. Billy Abraham, Inaugural Director of Truett's Wesley House of Studies, will be held at 10:00am on Saturday, October 30th at Highland Park United Methodist Church in Dallas. Sep 17 2021 Commitment to Scripture and to Home Guides Truett Student's Journey While her desire to become better equipped for her calling led Solange Balikunde from Rwanda to Texas to attend Truett Seminary, her commitment to her country and to her ministry work there has never wavered. Now, when Rwandan pastors are facing the devastating affects of the COVID-19 pandemic, Solange has been inspired to take action to support and sustain them. Sep 15 2021 Forum on Global Hunger: Second Afternoon Session In the second afternoon session of the Forum on Global Hunger, experts in the fields of migration, agriculture, and food insecurity discuss policy implications regarding hunger and poverty. Sep 9 2021 Nobel Peace Price Recipient to Speak at Baylor’s Forum on Global Hunger The Baylor Collaborative on Hunger and Poverty (BCHP) will welcome David Beasley, executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), to its Forum on Global Hunger Sept. 10 at Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary. The WFP received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2020 for their work combatting hunger and preventing the use of famine as a weapon of war in the most dangerous regions of the world. Sep 9 2021 Truett Seminary Welcomes Dr. Kevin Watson as Affiliate Research Professor Baylor University’s George W. Truett Theological Seminary is pleased to announce the appointment of Kevin M. Watson, PhD, as Affiliate Research Professor. Watson, who recently joined the ministerial staff of First Methodist Waco as Pastor of Discipleship, will conduct his ongoing research and writing in collaboration with the Seminary’s newly formed Wesley House of Studies. Additionally, he will teach occasional courses related to Methodist history and polity for Wesleyan and other interested students enrolled at Truett. Sep 2 2021 Fall 2021 Convocation Address: “Who Are You?” Dean Todd D. Still offered the Fall 2021 Convocation Address for George W. Truett Theological Seminary on August 24, 2021. Jul 30 2021 Christianity Today: Before Simone Biles Becomes Christians’ Next Sports Metaphor FSI Postdoctoral Fellow Brian Gamel discussed the Olympics and the Bible's athletic metaphors on Christianity Today's "Quick to Listen" podcast. Are you looking for more News? Archives About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Vision for Life Together Statement of Common Faith Women in Ministry Accreditations & Affiliations Statement of Educational Effectiveness (2021) Campuses Houston Tuition & Financing Campus Visits Meet Our Students & Alumni Mahcoe Mikel Alyssa Carter Meet Our Director Connect with Truett Continuing Education San Antonio Tuition & Financing Meet Our Director Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory George W. Truett Theological Seminary 1100 South 3rd Street Waco, TX 76706 254.710.3755 Apply Visit Request Information Why Truett? Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Greetings from the Dean Who We Are History What We Believe Accreditations & Affiliations Campuses Houston San Antonio Faculty Jared E. Alcántara, Ph.D. Andrew Arterbury, Ph.D. Dustin D. Benac, Th.D. Kimlyn J. Bender, Ph.D. Stephanie Boddie, PhD Brian C. Brewer, Ph.D. R. Robert Creech, Ph.D. David E. Garland, Ph.D. Scott M. Gibson, D.Phil. Angela Gorrell, Ph.D. Joel C. Gregory, Ph.D. Rebecca Poe Hays, Ph.D. Grear Howard, D.Min. Angela Reed, Ph.D. Stephen B. Reid, Ph.D. Todd D. Still, Ph.D. Michael W. Stroope, Ph.D. W. Dennis Tucker, Jr. Ph.D. Preben Vang, Ph.D. Joel Weaver, Ph.D John B. White, Ph.D. David Wilhite, Ph.D. Gaynor Yancey, DSW Terry York, D.M.A. Books by Truett Faculty Staff Denisha Akpan Arbra Bailey Maxcey Blaylock Jack Bodenhamer Bridgette Boggess Keith Bruce, D.Min. John K. Burk, Ph.D. Julie Covington Jackie Diaz Nancy Floyd Malcolm Foley, Ph.D. Rusty Freeman, D.Min. Brian Gamel, Ph.D. Karen Green Matt Homeyer, D.Min. Grear Howard, D.Min. Jennifer Howell, Ph.D. Melissa Lambeth Jenn Martinez-Ayala Nancy Plotts Paul Putz, Ph.D. Jo Ann Sharkey Reinowski Ben Simpson Jon Sisk Evan Taddia J. David Tate Cindy White Audrey Yadon News The Cord Magazine Board of Advocates Contact Us Need More Info About Truett? Map & Parking Departmental Directory Academics Degree Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Christian Ministry (M.A.C.M.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Master of Arts (M.A.) in Theology and Sports Studies Master of Arts (M.A.) in Contextual Witness and Innovation Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) Ph.D. in Preaching M.Div./Juris Doctor (J.D.) M.Div./Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) M.Div./Master of Education (M.Ed.) M.Div./Master of Music (M.M.) M.Div./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) M.T.S./Master of Social Work (M.S.W.) Academic Catalog Faculty Advanced Standing Admissions Apply Master's Degrees Doctor of Ministry PhD in Preaching Request More Information Why Truett? Culture & Community Affordability Academics Baylor University Visit Truett Truett Preview Personal Visit Virtual Visit Group Visit Truett on the Road Map & Parking Recruitment Team Tuition & Financing Scholarships Baylor Students Transfer Students Incoming Students New Student Orientation Advanced Standing Programs & Centers Black Church Studies Program Program Pillars Leadership Faith & Sports Institute About the Faith & Sports Institute Graduate Degree Programs Online Certificate Program High School Retreat Research & Resources Kyle Lake Center for Effective Preaching National Preaching Conference African American Preaching Conference Boomers & Beyond Conference Additional Resources 12 Most Effective Preachers Survey Office of Ministry Connections About the OMC Staff Ministry Positions Post a Ministry Position Additional Resources Ministry Position Administrative Tools Online Certificate Program Program Overview Enrollment Online Courses Seminar Courses Current Students Staff Testimonials FAQ Request More Info Program for the Future Church Who We Are What We Do Our Team Support Us Connect with Us Spiritual Formation Program Spiritual Formation Courses Spiritual Direction Training Program Personal Counseling Spiritual Direction for Baylor Students Spiritual Direction for the Truett Community Plan a Personal Retreat Theology, Ecology, and Food Justice Program About Degree Program Partnerships News Truett Church Network Center for Ministry Effectiveness Ministry Resident Program Truett Pastors Conference Wesley House of Studies Students Academic Services Registration Advising Degree Planning Substitutions & Waivers Graduation Transfer Students Advanced Standing Look Up Classes Academic Complaints Scholarship Services Mentoring Program How Do I Begin Currently Mentoring Financial Wellness Resources Online Tools Final Exam Schedule Lifelong Formation Truett Student Employment Code of Conduct Student Organizations Campus Resources Events & Resources Conferences & Lectures Dobbs Lecture Drumwright Lectures Parchman Lectures TB Maston Lecture Willson-Addis Lecture E.K. Bailey Preaching Celebration Science & Christian Ministry Conference African American Preaching Conference National Preaching Conference Summer Intensive with N.T. Wright Texas Baptist Women in Ministry Conference Athletics, Race, and Christianity (ARC) Talks Women's World Day of Prayer Racism in the White Church Truett Chapel Events Friends of Truett Dinner 20th Anniversary Campus Celebration Building Reservations Room Reservations Wedding Reservations Truett Faculty & Staff Resources Technology Support Media Library Truett Chapel African American Preaching Conference Dobbs Lectures Media Library E.K. Bailey Memorial Preaching Event Fall Preaching Convocation Parchman Lectures Preacher's Workshop Media Page Willson-Addis Media Library Archives Other Recordings Lenten Devotional Guide 2022 Continuing Education Course Catalog Alumni Continuing Education Tools & Benefits Employment Events Calendar Student Recruitment Giving to Truett Make a Gift