Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Fulbright » Fulbright Boot Camp Set Navigation title in component Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Fulbright Boot Camp Wednesdays, 12-1:30PM EST May 25th - July 20th, 2022 UC’s Fulbright Boot Camp is designed to create a cohort experience for Fulbright applicants. By the start of boot camp, participants should already have identified their grant type and country and completed an edited draft of their Statement of Grant Purpose. (If you are having trouble deciding, please schedule an NCA advising appointment in May to discuss your options.) The workshops and activities will create a friendly, collaborative environment that will enable you to prepare a compelling application that reflects who you are and your goals. Benefits: Workshops. You’ll receive expert advice from NCA on how to craft compelling essays, ranging from the personal statement to the short essays. Community. The name may sound intense, but the Fulbright Boot Camp is a relaxed, supportive environment. You’ll get to know other students from different disciplines who are globally-minded and committed to cultural exchange. Structure. One of the most challenging parts of the application can be getting started, and then structuring your time. The boot camp schedule will provide you with that structure, making it easier for you to launch your application and create momentum early on that will carry you through the rest of the summer. Feedback. In addition to regular feedback from NCA, you’ll receive feedback from—and provide feedback to—your peers. NCA has detailed guides on how to give helpful feedback, so you’ll have plenty of instruction. Ideally, the relationships you build with your peers will provide you with support beyond June, as you continue to work on your application materials. A strong CCE form. NCA helps draft your Campus Committee Evaluation form. By participating in the Fulbright Boot Camp, you give NCA staff the opportunity to see you in action as you contribute to a community of applicants and collaborate with peers. This helps us write a strong CCE form on your behalf. For UHP Students: Participation in Fulbright Boot Camp, and completion and submission of a Fulbright application, counts as a pre-approved Honors experience. Click here to register for the Boot Camp Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top