Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Judicial Clerkships Careers Judicial Clerkships Distinguish yourself and make a positive impact as a judicial law clerk. Explore what it's like to be a judicial law clerk as a law student through a summer judicial internship or a judicial externship. More in this Section Explore Judicial Clerkships: Applicant Resources Programs, Workshops, and Webinars Summer Judicial Internships Faculty Resources The Columbia Clerkships Diversity Initiative Judicial Employers Every year, Columbia Law School students and alumni obtain some of the most coveted judicial clerkship positions in the country—ranging from the U.S. Supreme Court and federal circuit and district courts to a broad array of state, specialty and international courts. A clerkship is a challenging yet incredibly rewarding work experience, where you will build skills essential to your legal practice and also forge foundational professional relationships. Clerkship Placements by Class Year Made with Visme Presentation Maker Why Should I Clerk? Click to Open Make an Impact Most clerks play a significant role in researching and drafting bench memorandums, orders, and opinions. In this sense, under the apprenticeship of a seasoned jurist, clerks have the opportunity to shape the law very early on in their legal careers. Click to Open Distinguish Yourself Private and public sector employers alike value clerkships. Indeed, some may even require it. A clerkship provides you with the additional training, experience, and professional connections that employers seek in their top attorneys. Click to Open Gain Clarity and Perspective If you are unsure of your post-graduate plans, a year spent clerking gives you some time to consider where and what you’d like to practice in the short and/or long term. Clerking also provides unique insight into a legal system, how cases proceed from start to finish, and what a judge believes constitutes strong research, writing and advocacy skills. Whether you pursue a transaction or litigation-based career, understanding how a judge thinks and how a court operates is essential to your legal judgment and increases your value as a lawyer. Click to Open Sharpen Your Legal Skills Your research, writing, and oral presentation skills will be significantly strengthened in a clerkship where you are required, from day one, to keep pace with the demands of your judge’s docket. Click to Open Create a Clerk Network Clerks typically develop strong, long-lasting relationships with their judges and co-clerks. Many judges host annual reunions with their clerks. As new clerks join the "family," the network grows a little larger every year. You may also develop a network of lawyers who clerked for different judges in the same city or courthouse. You will also get to know, and appreciate the role of, key administrators in the Courthouse, who, too, can be lifelong friends and mentors. Click to Open When Should I Clerk? In short, it really depends. Timing most often depends on the courts you’re considering and whether there is a clerkship opportunity for the time period in which you’d like to clerk. Some students still follow the traditional path of applying for clerkships during law school and starting work a few months after graduation. Many feel the experience is a bridge between law school and practice and a wonderful jumping-off point for their legal careers. Increasingly, however, students are opting to apply for clerkships that begin a year or more after graduation, and many judges now require clerks to have post-law school work experience. Moreover, applicants often view a clerkship as a potential pivot opportunity from private to the public sector, or to change his/her/their area of expertise or practice level (appellate vs. trial). However, clerkships that begin after an applicant has worked are sometimes secured well in advance—during the pre-2L summer, the 2L or 3L years, or sometime after graduation. Ensure you’re speaking with an OJC clerkships advisor to plan the best time for you to apply to a clerkship. Applicants may apply later for a number of reasons: They did not apply previously. They applied but did not secure a clerkship in their initial round. They seek an additional clerkship. They want to transition from private to public practice. As you move through law school and after you graduate, your clerkship application typically gets stronger: You can provide a judge with a more complete academic picture through your second- and third-year grades. You further develop your recommender relationships, leading to stronger letters of recommendation. More judges are now favoring the substantive and practical knowledge that a practicing attorney can bring to chambers. If you decide to continue or begin your application process after you graduate, OJC is available to help. Reach out to us and reactivate your Symplicity account. Office of Judicial Clerkships OJC offers advising, placement, and processing services; collaborates with faculty, students, and staff to promote a clerkships-oriented culture; and creates meaningful opportunities for candidates and clerks to network with—and learn from—the judiciary and each other through innovative programming and events. Related Links Schedule an Advising Appointment OJC Alumni, 2L, and 3L Courseworks Page OJC 1L Courseworks Page How to Process Applications Remotely (Paper & Email) OJC Spring 2022 Operations Announcement CLWA Clerkship Blog “I would not have had the opportunities I was privileged to experience without the dedicated contingent of Columbia professors in my corner.” Alyssa Barnard, '15, who clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, '59 in the October Term 2019-2020. Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events News From Judicial Clerkships Read All Stories More in The Press Students News Student Spotlight: Phillips Fellow Damonta D. Morgan ’22 Events News Judge Leo Sorokin ’91 Brings Restorative Justice to Federal Court Law School News News Why Clerk? Andrea Saavedra ’06 Has the Answers Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.