Skip to main content Search Home About Overview Leadership Strategic Priorities Facts and Rankings Facilities Accreditation Visit Us Contact Us Academics Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Bachelor's/Master's Integrated Program Certificate Programs and Minors Student Community Student Opportunities People Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Openings External Advisory Committee Staff Directory Research Overview Research Areas Research Centers Research Labs and Groups News Overview Press Coverage Texas Mechanical Engineer Magazine Connect Overview Academy of Distinguished Alumni Giving Industry Partners Contact Us ☰ Search Home About Academics People Research News Connect Welcome to the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering Learn More About Our Department Pause Video RT @FAlambeigi: Our paper entitled “Multiphysical Analytical Modeling and Design of a Magnetically Steerable Robotic Catheter for Treatment… RT @CockrellSchool: Roger Bonnecaze, chemical engineer and internationally recognized expert in rheology and nanomanufacturing modeling and… RT @ut_orie: Congratulations to @ut_orie PhD student @A_RShukla for winning the @iisenet Energy Systems Division's (@IISE_ES) Best Student… Follow @utmechengr Home Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air More than a third of the world’s population lives in drylands, areas that experience significant water shortages. Scientists and engineers at The University of Texas at Austin have developed a solution that could help people in these areas access clean drinking water. Read more UT Austin Selected for EcoCAR EV Challenge to Make Next-Gen Vehicle The University of Texas at Austin is one of 13 university teams in North America set to participate in the EcoCAR EV Challenge, a prestigious collegiate competition to re-engineer state-of-the-art vehicles and prepare students for the future. Read more Texas Engineers Selected for 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program Five graduate students with the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering have been selected for the 2022 National Science Foundation's Graduate Research Fellowship Program. Read more Mechanical Engineering Graduate Program Ranked #10 in the Nation for 2023 The mechanical engineering graduate program in the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin has been ranked No. 10 according to U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 graduate school rankings. Read more Page 1 of 2 Start Prev 1 2 Next End News Mechanical Engineering Graduate Program Ranked #10 in the Nation for 2023 The mechanical engineering graduate program in the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin has been ranked No. 10 according to U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 graduate school rankings. Keep reading Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air More than a third of the world’s population lives in drylands, areas that experience significant water shortages. Scientists and engineers at The University of Texas at Austin have developed a solution that could help people in these areas access clean drinking water. Keep reading UT Austin Selected for EcoCAR EV Challenge to Make Next-Gen Vehicle The University of Texas at Austin is one of 13 university teams in North America set to participate in the EcoCAR EV Challenge, a prestigious collegiate competition to re-engineer state-of-the-art vehicles and prepare students for the future. Keep reading Texas Engineers Selected for 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program Five graduate students with the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering have been selected for the 2022 National Science Foundation's Graduate Research Fellowship Program. Keep reading view all news Our Nobel Laureate On December 10, 2019, John B. Goodenough received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his contributions to the development of the lithium-ion battery. Experience His Nobel Journey In Photos Research Areas Acoustics Acoustics engineers perform research on problems of both a basic and applied nature in physical... Learn more Advanced Manufacturing and Design Advanced Manufacturing and Design uses technological advances to create products and systems that... Learn more Advanced Materials Science and Engineering The Advanced Materials Science and Engineering research area in the Walker Department of... Learn more Analytics and Probabilistic Modeling Decisions are often difficult because the outcome is uncertain. Researchers focused on Analytics... Learn more Biomechanical and Biomedicine Biomechanics is the application of fundamental mechanical engineering principles to biological... Learn more Clean Energy Technology Clean energy technology research focuses on advancing clean energy technology at every stage, from... Learn more Complex Systems Complex Systems includes the science, mathematics and engineering of systems with simple... Learn more Computational Engineering Computational engineers develop and apply the computational models, data assimilation techniques,... Learn more Engineering Education Engineering Education research focuses on understanding how best to recruit, retain and prepare a... Learn more Nano and Micro-scale Engineering As materials, mechanisms, and machines are scaled down to the micro- and nano-scales, new physical... Learn more Nuclear and Radiation Engineering Encompasses health physics, radiation engineering, research reactor beam port experiments,... Learn more Robotics and Intelligent Mechanical Systems Robotics and intelligent machines are emerging as prime technologies that can provide a wide range of... Learn more #10 Graduate Mechanical Engineering Program #11 Undergraduate Mechanical Engineering Program 1 Nobel Prize Recipient Spotlights Explore more at the Walker Department of Mechanical Engineering New Additive Manufacturing Center Strengthens UT’s Leadership in 3D Printing Technology Learn more Get to Know the Course: ME 302 Introduction to Engineering Design & Graphics Learn more Faculty Openings Learn more Texas Mechanical Engineer Magazine Learn more © The University of Texas at Austin | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Canvas Contact Us ENGR Direct Faculty Directory Giving Faculty & Staff Intranet UT Direct UT Directory Follow Us