Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > February 8, 2021: Update II on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff February 8, 2021: Update II on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Based on the latest direction from the NY State Department of Health, this will be the last week we will be able to vaccinate eligible employees here at CUIMC/NYP. As you know, all patient-facing clinical and support staff (1a), and all faculty and staff 65 or older, are eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. If you fall into one of these eligible groups but have not yet received the vaccine, we urge you to do so this week while it remains available on the campus. After this week, you may still be eligible to receive the vaccine at one of the public vaccination sites near you or at the Washington Heights Armory, NYP’s public vaccination site, if vaccine supplies are available. Please note that this change does not affect the distribution of second doses for employees and trainees who already received their first dose. CUIMC’s Employee Covid Vaccination page has locations and hours for vaccine availability this week. Should you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to the Workforce Health & Safety Hotline at 646-697-9470 Monday – Friday, 7 a.m. – 5 p.m. and weekends, 7 a.m. – 1 p.m. As before, if you are not in the current eligibility groups, we ask that you be patient and know that additional vaccine supplies will continue to arrive and the eligibility for vaccination will continue to expand. Our goal is to vaccinate everyone. As a reminder, as vaccinations are ongoing it is still imperative that everyone − including team members who have been vaccinated − continue to take the appropriate precautions, including masking, appropriate PPE, and physical distancing, to limit the spread of COVID-19. We will continue to provide more information to you as it becomes available. Thank you for all that you are doing in the fight against COVID-19. Donna Lynne, DrPH University COVID Director Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top