Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Schools & colleges Business The Haas School of Business includes undergraduate degrees, MBA programs and executive education. Chemistry The College of Chemistry includes departments of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. Computing, Data Science & Society The Division of Computing, Data Science & Society connects data science education, School of Information, Departments of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and Statistics, Berkeley Institute for Data Science, and Center for Computational Biology. Education The Graduate School of Education includes master’s and doctoral programs, teacher preparation, undergraduate minor program and leadership training. Engineering The College of Engineering includes departments of Bioengineering; Civil & Environmental Engineering; Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences; Industrial Engineering & Operations Research; Materials Science & Engineering; Mechanical Engineering; and Nuclear Engineering. Environmental Design The College of Environmental Design includes departments of Architecture; Landscape Architecture; and City and Regional Planning. Information The School of Information includes graduate programs in information, data science, and cybersecurity. Journalism The Graduate School of Journalism includes a two-year immersive Master of Journalism program. Law The School of Law offers J.D. and J.S.D. programs, and the first U.S. law school to offer M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in jurisprudence and social policy. Letters & Science The College of Letters & Science is Berkeley’s largest college and includes more than 60 departments in the biological sciences, arts and humanities, physical sciences, and social sciences. Natural Resources The Rausser College of Natural Resources includes departments of Agricultural and Resource Economics; Environmental Science, Policy, and Management; Nutritional Science; and Plant and Microbial Biology. Optometry The School of Optometry includes the professional program for optometry. Public Health The School of Public Health includes master’s and doctoral programs in a wide range of public health disciplines. Public Policy The Richard and Rhoda Goldman School of Public Policy includes master’s, doctoral and an undergraduate minor program in public policy. Social Welfare The School of Social Welfare includes master’s, concurrent master’s, doctoral and credential programs. Academic Calendar Apr 29 Spring 2022 - Formal Classes End May 02 Spring 2022 - RRR Week May 06 Spring 2022 - Last Day of Instruction More Dates Academic Departments and Programs 184 Student-to-faculty ratio 17.8 to 1 Nobel Prizes held by current faculty 9 Freshmen who are first generation college students 23% More numbers Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved