Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print 'A conversation that inspires': Princeton brings landmark discoveries in chemistry to high school students Wendy Plump, Department of Chemistry April 20, 2022, 12:16 p.m. When Assistant Professor of Chemistry Ralph Kleiner set out to tell the story of landmark discoveries in chemical biology, he kept one goal foremost in mind: make it compelling. This month, he and his research group met that goal with a series of videos for high school students. Backed by the able narration of graduate student Emilia Argüello, the videos use primary literature to highlight some of chemistry’s historic achievements in nucleic acid science. Ralph Kleiner (left) and his research team are creating a series of short videos for high school students. The videos, which feature graduate student Emilia Argüello (right), use primary literature to highlight historic achievements in DNA and RNA science. Photo by C. Todd Reichart, Department of Chemistry The videos are available through the Department of Chemistry’s Vimeo channel and the Kleiner Lab website. The first two in the series are “The Transforming Principle” and “Discovering the Structure of DNA.” Engaging and conversational as they are informative, these two videos also fulfill part of the terms of Kleiner’s 2019 CAREER Award. The National Science Foundation, which stewards the award, requires a strong commitment to outreach and education. “When I wrote the outreach portion of the CAREER proposal, my goal was to introduce students to the scientific method through exposure to the primary literature,” said Kleiner. “Reading original scientific manuscripts is not only an essential part of research, but it can bring the material to life by infusing it with the personality, history and circumstances of the scientists who made the discoveries.” The lab plans to produce up to 10 videos in the series. Argüello, whose research focuses on investigating the interactions of proteins with modified RNA, was tasked with selecting, organizing and translating the information for the first two videos. “I’m very adamant about being conversational in my talks, even if it’s an official talk,” said Argüello. “I have to feel that I’m engaging with the audience. Some people say, ‘I’m never going to understand chemistry; it’s too arcane.’ But no — we can unpack these concepts and have a conversation that inspires people.” Read the full story on the Department of Chemistry website. Related Stories Jacques Fresco, 'a major figure in the birth of modern molecular biology,' dies at 93 Read more Senior thesis: Cassidy Humphreys creates a faster, cheaper — and greener — chemical reaction Read more Go ahead, ask a chemistry grad Read more Exploring new research paths: Dean for Research awards emphasize innovation Read more Coronavirus researcher Cameron Myhrvold is using 'spectacular' new technologies to seek and destroy viral pathogens Read more Turning 'gee-whiz ideas' into reality at Nobel Laureate Dave MacMillan's latest PCI Symposium Read more Seyedsayamdost lab uncovers small fratricidal molecule Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice