skip to content Menu x We've Redesigned! The College of Liberal Arts has launched a redesign of this site (and all of our other department, center, and unit sites). All information from the previous site is still available, but may have been moved. You can use the MENU button on the top right to find the information you are looking for and don't forget to update your bookmarks. × Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text Welcome to UTeach-Liberal Arts! UTeach-Liberal Arts is a professional high school teacher preparation program for The University of Texas at Austin undergraduate and post-baccalaureate students planning to teach English (7-12), languages other than English (EC-12), or social studies (7-12). Our four-semester program aims to transform secondary school teacher certification from the ground up with a balanced practical and theoretical approach to teacher preparation. Our students benefit from an innovative program emphasizing the UTeach-LA philosophy of practical, hands-on field experience in public school classrooms throughout the length of the program. Students take advantage of intensive coursework and field experiences in local area schools that provide an excellent first-hand glimpse into the world of teaching. The program provides a supportive environment for students to build professional networks through cohort groups and faculty interaction. Personal attention and guidance of UT faculty, many of whom are highly experienced master teachers recruited from public secondary schools, prepare students for a career in the classroom. Information Session June 7 | WCP 3.112 | 12 pm Ask UTeach If you have questions about the program, click here. Apply Today! Now only accepting applications for Fall 2022. Fall application deadline: July 15, 2022 Complete an application Choose UTeach! Listen to our students explain why they chose our program. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021