Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » Profiles » Lynn Pickering Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners Lynn Pickering Lynn Pickering is a UC PhD candidate in Aerospace Engineering, after graduating in 2020 with a Bachelors of Science in Aerospace Engineering (Summa Cum Laude and Distinguished University Honors Scholar) and a minor in German Studies. Her research involves using Fuzzy Logic as an artificial intelligence (AI) method that provides the transparency and explainability to truly advance AI. Explainability in AI is essential to enhance partnerships with humans and ensure that AI is being utilized in a fair and ethical manner. To further promote explainable fuzzy systems, she is on the organizing board of the UC Explainable Fuzzy AI student competition. She has written several conference papers involving genetic fuzzy systems. This semester Lynn attends Coventry University in England studying and applying explainable AI methods to mathematical software. After graduating her plans are to work in explainable AI and policy to regulate AI so that it works in the human user’s best interest. Lynn co-oped with the Bayrische Motoren Werke (BMW) in Munich, Germany and the Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation in Savannah, Georgia. She was recently featured on the Science Channel: Impossible Engineering to discuss the Bell XV-3 (tilt rotor technology) that was the precursor to the Osprey Aircraft. Lynn is a current Rindsberg Fellow, the 2022 WTS Columbus Chapter Paula Hammond Leadership Legacy Scholarship recipient, previous recipient of the Cincinnatus Presidential Scholarship and the Aerospace Engineering Weston Award. She is being advised by Dr. Kelly Cohen, the Brian H. Rowe Endowed Chair in aerospace engineering. Awards 2021–22- Recipient, Fulbright U.S. Student Program (Ghent University Award) - Belgium Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top