Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Office of the President Office of the President Biography Past Presidents Contact the President Executive Cabinet Menu Office of the President Biography Past Presidents Contact the President Executive Cabinet Seton Hall University Office of the President On February 4, 2019, Joseph E. Nyre, Ph.D., a nationally recognized leader in higher education, was named the 21st president of Seton Hall, effective August 1. "The Board is overwhelmingly enthusiastic in its selection of Dr. Nyre as Seton Hall's next president. He is an experienced leader, a bold visionary and possesses an unwavering commitment to our Catholic mission," said Patrick Murray, Chair of the University's Board of Regents. Immediately prior to his appointment, President Nyre served for eight years as the leader of Iona College, a Roman Catholic institution in New Rochelle, New York. Mindful of the changing higher education landscape, President Nyre has substantial experience in reducing tuition dependency, strengthening institutional fiscal health and fundraising for key institutional initiatives. Collectively, his teams achieved record levels of fundraising (tripling Iona's endowment in less than eight years), established an abundance of student scholarships and expanded Iona's main campus by more than 30 percent by constructing and renovating numerous buildings. In addition, he has practiced as a psychologist in academic, clinical and private practice settings while serving at several prominent institutions, including Baylor University, the University of Illinois-Chicago College of Medicine and Harvard Medical School. "It is a great honor and my distinct privilege to be selected to serve as Seton Hall's 21st president," President Nyre said. "I look forward to working with the entire Seton Hall community to build on its distinguished legacy of academic excellence in Catholic higher education." His Eminence Cardinal Joseph W. Tobin, C.Ss.R., Archbishop of Newark, in his role as chair of the Board of Trustees and president of the Board of Regents said, "Dr. Nyre is an excellent choice to guide Seton Hall as it continues its important role as one of our nation's leading Catholic universities." A devout Catholic, President Nyre and his wife, the former Kelli McIntyre, have four children: Evelyn (7), Charlie (11), Henry (15) and Hadley (18). Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top