COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert File your 2022-2023 FAFSA now! The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) allows you to apply for the full range of possible financial aid programs, including work-study, grants, and loans. Learn more! Apply for Financial Aid Section Menu Home About Us Consumer Information Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Policies International Students Scholarships Types of Aid Applying for FAFSA General Information What is the FAFSA? The FAFSA is the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. It is the form that the federal government uses to determine your eligibility for federal aid. This aid can include grants, scholarships, work-study and loans. Why should I complete the FAFSA? Completing the FAFSA allows you to be considered for federal, state, and some types of institutional financial aid. The fastest way to submit your FAFSA is either online at fafsa.gov or through the myStudentAid mobile app. Both of these methods allow the federal processor to do a "final check" of your information to make sure your FAFSA is ready for processing before it is submitted. Which FAFSA should I complete? You need to complete the FAFSA every year that you want to be considered for financial aid. Review all of your information every year because your eligibility may change depending on your family's circumstances. The 2021-2022 FAFSA, which will become available on October 1, 2020, will be used for the Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022 terms. For the 2021-2022 FAFSA, you will use your 2019 income information on the application. The 2022-2023 FAFSA, which will become available on October 1, 2021, will be used for the Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023 terms. For the 2022-2023 FAFSA, you will use your 2020 income information on the application. When should I complete the FAFSA? Is there a deadline? Finish your FAFSA as soon as possible. December 1st is WSU's priority date. Students can file after this date, but the opportunity to receive some types of aid programs will be greatly reduced. Eligibility for the Federal Pell Grant and/or Federal Direct Loans are not affected by this priority deadline. A list of final deadlines is available here. Need Help with Your FAFSA? Additional FAFSA FAQs Schedule an Appointment Contact Us How to Apply Before the FAFSA Gather these materials and complete these steps before beginning your FAFSA. During the FAFSA Use this the checklist to answer frequently asked questions and to avoid common FAFSA errors while completing your FAFSA. After the FAFSA Follow these steps after completing your FAFSA to ensure you receive a timely financial aid offer. Before the FAFSA Use the Federal Student Aid Estimator tool to estimate your aid eligibility wihtout having to log in or create an account. The estimator also gives you access to information about the Expected Family Contribution (EFC) and its role in determining their federal student aid. It provides non-binding estimates that include eligibility for Federal Pell Grants, work-study funds, and federal student loans. Federal Student Aid Estimator Next Steps: Gather your information. Check here to see what you need. Dependent students who are U.S. citizens Your Social Security card. Your driver's license (if you have one). Your 2020 W-2 forms. Your 2020 federal income tax return. Your 2020 untaxed income records. Your current bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). Your parents' federal income tax return. Your parents' 2020 W-2 forms. Your parents' bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). Your parents' untaxed income records (like child support received). Your parents' current business and investment records. Dependent students who are not U.S. citizens Your Permanent Residency card (you will need your Alien Registration Number and your social security number). Your driver's license (if you have one). Your 2020 W-2 forms. Your 2020 federal income tax return. Your 2020 untaxed income records. Your current bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). Your parents' federal income tax return. Your parents' 2020 W-2 forms. Your parents' bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). Your parents' untaxed income records (like child support received). Your parents' current business and investment records. Independent students who are U.S. citizens Your Social Security card. Your driver's license (if you have one). Your 2020 W-2 forms. Your 2020 federal income tax return. Your 2020 untaxed income records. Your current bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). If you are married, you will also need the same information as above for your spouse. Independent students who are not U.S. citizens Your Permanent Residency card (you will need your Alien Registration Number and your social security number). Your driver's license (if you have one). Your 2020 W-2 forms. Your 2020 federal income tax return. Your 2020 untaxed income records. Your current bank statements (to report the amount you have in cash, savings, and checking accounts). If you are married, you will also need the same information as above for your spouse. Create your Federal Student Aid (FSA) IDs before you begin the FAFSA to prevent delays. Remember, do NOT use your school email to create your FSA ID. Enter your name and social security number exactly as it appears on your social security card. Double check for errors. Don't mix up you and your parent's FSA IDs. This is one of the most common errors. That's why it is important for each person to create their own FSA ID and not share it with anyone. Financial Aid PRO Tip: Add October 1 as a reminder on your calendar so you can apply early! You don't have to wait until you have been accepted to college to apply for financial aid. List of Information Needed to Complete Your FAFSA Am I Dependent or Independent? During the FAFSA Find a reliable internet connection and a private area to complete your FAFSA. Allow yourself 30-60 minutes to complete the FAFSA. After your first year, it may take as little as 10 minutes to finish. You can save the FAFSA if you cannot complete it all at once, but be sure to remember the password you entered at the beginning of the application. Mistakes can delay your application and limit the amount of aid you are eligible to receive. Carefully read all questions on the FAFSA. Remember to fill out the FAFSA as student application, not the parents. When the FAFSA says "you" or "your," it is referring to the student (unless otherwise noted). Pay special attention to whether you're being asked for student or parent information. Enter your name and social security number exactly as it appears on your social security card. Double check for errors. List ALL schools you are considering attending. You can include up to 10 schools. Wichita State's school code is 001950. Read the "Help and Hints" located on the right side of every FAFSA webpage. They change depending on the question selected. If you are given the option to complete a “renewal” FAFSA, choose that option. When you choose to renew your FAFSA, your demographic information from the previous year will roll over into your new application, saving you some time. If you have siblings, your parent can use the same FSA ID to sign the FAFSA for all of their children. Your parent can also transfer their information into your sibling's application by choosing the option provided on the FAFSA confirmation page. Make sure the parent who is using their FSA ID to sign the FAFSA chooses the right parent number (Parent 1 or Parent 2) from the drop-down menu. If your parent doesn’t remember whether they were listed as Parent 1 or Parent 2, they can go back to the parent demographics section to check. Financial Aid PRO Tip: Sign the FAFSA with your FSA ID. It's the fastest way to get your application processed. However, if you and/or your parent are unable to sign the FAFSA electronically with an FSA ID, you can mail in a signature page. From the sign and submit page within the application, select “Other options to sign and submit” and then choose “Print A Signature Page.” Keep in mind that your FAFSA form will take longer to process if you select this option. Checklist to Avoid Common FAFSA Errors After the FAFSA Review your Student Aid Report (SAR) carefully. The SAR is the official record that proves the federal processor received your FAFSA. If you find any errors on your SAR, you should correct your FAFSA online. Unresolved errors could impact your federal aid awards. Check if your SAR has been selected for verification. Look under the date (on the top right corner) for the letter's EFC, followed by a series of numbers. If there is an asterisk (*) after your EFC (Expected Family Contribution), your SAR has been selected for verification. That means that your college will compare your FAFSA with documents, including tax returns, that verify your financial status. If asked, submit the information requested to Wichita State as soon as possible. Your aid may be delayed or decreased if the materials are not provided promptly. Carefully read all emails, letters, and texts from the Wichita State Office of Financial Aid. If we are contacting you, it's important! Email is the primary way our office with contact you, but we may also call or text you to help you complete the financial aid process. Make sure all documents you submit are complete, accurate, and signed as required (tax forms typically require a signature and a date). Respond promptly to all requests for additional information. Some financial aid is first come, first served, so make sure you're in line! Financial Aid PRO Tip: Print your name and myWSU ID on all documents you submit to Wichita State. If your financial situation changes after you submit your FAFSA or if the information submitted does not reflect your situation, you may be eligible to appeal. Changes in finances due to a reduction in income, a change in marital status, death of a parent/spouse, or other special circumstances may greatly impact a family’s ability to pay for college. The Department of Education allows financial aid administrators to use Professional Judgment on a case-by-case basis to make adjustments to the data used in calculating the estimated family contribution (EFC) to reflect these special circumstances. If your family is experiencing financial issues (such as the loss of a job, reduction of income, or other extenuating circumstance) and would like to discuss financial aid options and information about the process of a Professional Judgment for the next academic year, schedule an appointment to meet with a financial aid advisor at wichita.edu/finaidappt. Tips for Completing the FAFSA How to Fill Out the FAFSA How to Create Your FSA ID How to Regain Access to Your FSA ID FAFSA Form and FSA ID Tips for Parents Determining Your Dependency Status Do you need to report parent information on your FAFSA? Completing the FAFSA via Mobile App This video covers the steps to complete and submit a FAFSA through the Department of Education's myStudentAid mobile app. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©