Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information About Graduate Education Apply Policies and Forms Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) Search Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation About Welcome and Overview Meet the Staff Academic Calendar Contact Us Grad Events and Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion News Student Organizations Costs and Funding Giving Resources Graduate Education A-Z Listing Graduate Programs UM/FIU Exchange Associate Deans of Graduate Education Graduate Faculty Graduate Council Graduate Program Review Graduate Program Directors International Credentials & Applicants UOnline Graduate Programs Apply Admissions Representatives On-Campus Graduate Programs UOnline Graduate Programs Policies and Forms Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation Forms Graduate Student Honor Code Sexual Misconduct Policies Guidance for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Electronic Theses and Dissertations (ETD) ETD Process Defense and Submission Deadlines Formatting the ETD Defense Day Essentials Post-Defense Essentials Copyright and Publishing Information Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation About Graduate Education Apply Policies & Forms Electronic Thesis & Dissertation (ETD) Home Policies, Procedures, and Forms Forms AAA Forms Guidelines for Pregnant Students Academic Integrity Sexual Misconduct Academic Bulletin Graduate Student Handbook Graduate Student Handbook for Online Students Graduate Student Honor Code Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook Forms Forming the Thesis/Doctoral Committee Clearance Process for Graduation GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The Graduate School uses Dynamic Forms to process requests by graduate students to the Graduate School. Faculty, staff, and students may refer to the guides below for support on using Dynamic Forms. Dynamic Forms guide for faculty and staff Dynamic Forms guide for students For direct access to Dynamic Forms to view your pending and past forms, click the button below. VISIT DYNAMIC FORMS Application for Admission to Candidacy A graduate student who has been admitted to candidacy for a Ph.D./Ed.D./D.M.A. degree must complete the Application for Admission to Candidacy form. If there are any changes to the doctoral committee after this form is submitted and processed the first time, the student must submit a Committee Composition Change Request Form. COMPLETE THE APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO CANDIDACY Committee Composition Change Request Form A graduate student must complete the Committee Composition Change Request Form whenever there is a change to the committee after being admitted to candidacy for a Ph.D./Ed.D./D.M.A. degree. COMPLETE THE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION CHANGE REQUEST FORM Petition for Transfer of Credit A graduate student wishing to transfer in graduate credits taken at another institution must complete the Petition for Transfer of Credit form. COMPLETE THE PETITION FOR TRANSFER OF CREDIT Petition for Leave of Absence A Leave of Absence officially stops the time to completion clock. A graduate student wishing to take a leave of absence from a graduate program, and return at a later date, must complete the Petition for Leave of Absence form. COMPLETE THE PETITION FOR LEAVE OF ABSENCE Application for Readmission to the Graduate School Graduate students who have not been continuously enrolled must request readmission. Students returning from a Leave of Absence must request readmission. The student must contact the appropriate program office well in advance of registration. Please note that if additional college work has been completed elsewhere since the last enrollment at the University of Miami, an official transcript of this coursework will be required. Recency of credit hour rules will apply. A graduate student wishing to be readmitted to a graduate program must complete the Application for Readmission to the Graduate School form. COMPLETE THE APPLICATION FOR READMISSION TO THE GRADUATE SCHOOL Application for Time to Degree Extension Time to completion starts when a student begins any program in the Graduate School, whether it be a master’s or doctoral program. All work must be completed within six years of the time of admission to graduate work, for those studying for the various master’s degrees; and within eight years for those studying for doctoral degrees. Students requesting additional time to complete the graduate degree must complete the Application for Time to Degree Extension form. COMPLETE THE APPLICATION FOR TIME TO DEGREE EXTENSION Defense Notice Form When you and your committee have decided on a firm defense date, time, and location, complete the Defense Notice Form. Do not submit this form until the final defense date has been confirmed with your committee. Students must defend before the Last Day to Defend deadline of their desired graduation semester. Visit the ETD Submission Deadlines By Semester section under the ETD tab to view the deadlines for upcoming semesters. COMPLETE THE DEFENSE NOTICE FORM Certificate of Defense Approval Graduate students must complete the Certificate of Defense Approval form before the defense and have each committee member electronically sign the form after the successful defense. This form is the student's proof of successful defense of the Master's thesis, doctoral dissertation, doctoral essay, or lecture recital essay. COMPLETE THE Certificate of Defense Approval ETD Final Content Approval Form [NOTE: This form replaces the function of the signed hard copy of the Signature page from the thesis or dissertation, which was collected to formally document the committee's approval of the final content of the ETD.] Graduate students must complete the ETD Final Content Approval Form before uploading the thesis or dissertation to the Scholarly Repository, as confirmation that the committee has reviewed and approved the content of the final document. COMPLETE THE ETD Final Content Approval Form ETD Availability Agreement Form This form informs the Graduate School of the online availability option you want for your Master's thesis, doctoral dissertation, or doctoral/lecture recital essay in the UM Scholarly Repository. Before completing the form, you should discuss with your main advisor what availability option is appropriate for your document in the Repository so you can make an availability selection that you both agree upon. COMPLETE THE ETD Availability Agreement Form Application for Undergraduates to Take a Graduate Course University of Miami undergraduate students within 30 credits of meeting the requirements for the baccalaureate degree may take and receive credit for graduate courses, while completing the requirements for the baccalaureate degree. No more than six (6) graduate credits may be taken in one semester, and no more than a total of twelve (12) graduate credits may be taken as an undergraduate. The student should be enrolled in at least 12 undergraduate credits each semester to avoid eligibility issues for some aid programs. Students may take no more than 15 credit hours of combined undergraduate and graduate credits. Admission to take graduate courses does not automatically admit the student to a graduate degree program at the University of Miami. The graduate credits earned may NOT be used to meet undergraduate graduation requirements or be used to meet the 120 credit hour requirements at the University of Miami. Undergraduate students who request to take graduate coursework must complete the Application for Undergraduates to Take a Graduate Course. This form must be accompanied by a completed drop/add or course request form and be signed in the following order: 1.Department Chair 2.Undergraduate Dean 3.Graduate School 4.‘Canes Central COMPLETE THE APPLICATION FOR UNDERGRADUATES TO TAKE A GRADUATE COURSE FORM Graduate Withdrawal Date Appeal Form If you were unable to attend classes during a semester due to a serious accident or illness, and this prevented you from notifying the University of your withdrawal in a timely manner, a Graduate Withdrawal Date Appeal Form can be submitted for consideration by an Appeals Committee. This is for a complete withdrawal from all courses for a semester, not for individual course withdrawals. Appeals are submitted AFTER you complete the official withdrawal process for a semester with your graduate program and the Office of the Registrar (If you have questions about the withdrawal process, contact your graduate program director). Appeals must be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar within 30 calendar days from the date of withdrawal from the University. If the appeal is being submitted for a prior semester, it must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the last day of the end of the semester in question. Only one term may be appealed for a particular incident. Using the form at the link below, attach a personal statement that includes an explanation of the circumstances that interfered with your ability to withdraw in a timely fashion. Appeals should be written by the student and fully explain the student’s experience. If the student is incapable of submitting an appeal on their own behalf, please contact the Office of the University Registrar for further assistance at 305-284-2294. Also attach supporting documentation to corroborate the circumstances referenced in your appeal, such as the following: Any testimony related to the events surrounding your appeal should be from people directly involved in the event and/or subsequent recovery (do not include support letters from family or friends). All documentation, medical or other relevant documentation, must be provided at the time of the appeal. Medical or mental health documentation – Healthcare provider must complete and submit the Medical Certification Form to Enid Miquez at exm722@miami.edu. Below is a table of the dates that the Appeals Committee meets in Spring 2022 along with the deadline by when you must submit your form and supporting documentation in order for it to be reviewed by the Appeals Committee. Deadline to Submit Appeal Form and Supporting Documentation Appeals Committee Meeting Date February 28, 2022 March 14, 2022 March 28, 2022 April 11, 2022 April 25, 2022 May 9, 2022 COMPLETE THE GRADUATE WITHDRAWAL DATE APPEAL FORM *For forms on fellowships and grants, please visit the Fellowship, Financial Aid, and Other Funding Opportunities section under the Costs & Funding tab. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Graduate School 235 Ashe Administration Building 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-4154 (305) 284-4154 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices