COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Supply Services Section Menu Supply Services Home Frequently Asked Questions Stationery Orders Supply Orders Nametag Templates Supply Catalog (pdf) Office Plus of Kansas Like us on Facebook Contact Us Promo Solutions Shocker Printing Solutions Auxiliary Services Frequently Asked Questions Order Supplies Contact Us Order supplies Supply Services maintains a small inventory of office supplies which includes paper, printer cartridges, envelopes, testing supplies and WSU logo items. All other items are ordered directly from the office supply vendor, Office Plus of Kansas. If you need a log-in to the Office Plus, please email them at wsu.orders@officeplusks.com. Deliveries are made daily on the main campus and order pickup is available in Morrison Hall, Room 010, please ring the bell. Central Services has two main divisions: Supply Services and the Shocker Printing Solutions. Order Supplies Promo Solutions Looking for a specific item or just browsing for ideas? Promo Solutions is your one-stop shop for promotional products and business gifts. Our extensive range of promo products will ensure you find something to suit your requirements. Visit the Promo Solutions website Toner replenishment program Benefits of the toner replenishment program: Software has been installed on our network that monitors the level of toner in each networked printer. Departments no longer need to order toner; the networked printer will tell Dex when to ship replacement toner. Central Services will deliver toner to your office. Each toner delivered will have an equipment number matching the appropriate printer. The Dex toner replenishment program covers service calls, toner, drum kits, fuser modules, maintenance kits, etc. Printers included in the program will have a Dex MPS sticker attached to the printer. The "P" shown on the sticker is the equipment number. You will need this number when you call for supplies or service. Call the phone number on your Dex sticker to request all service or supplies. The program is on a cost per page basis. If you are not printing, you are not paying. Dex is notified when your printer reaches 30% toner capacity. A toner is sent out and is usually received within three business days. You should replace the toner as soon as it is received, otherwise your capacity will continue to drop and another toner will be sent out. Do not be concerned that there is still toner in the cartridge. Replace the cartridge as soon as the replacement is received. All toner cartridges may be recycled at Central Services. There is a collection bin outside the service window at 010 Morrison Hall. Or, if you are located on the main campus, call ext. 3545 for pickup. A billing is processed each month and will come with a data sheet to show the number of pages printed along with the cost for each printer. This data will help you make informed decisions regarding your print practices. If you have a color printer, you may want to consider setting your printer to print to grayscale in order to save printing dollars. Your printer must be connected to the network in order to be on the toner program. If you are connected by USB to your PC and would like to be connected to the network, please submit a Help Desk ticket. Once you are connected to the network, contact Ellen Abbey to be added to the program. If you have any questions or need assistance with the program, please contact me at ellen.abbey@wichita.edu or ext. 5864. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©