Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Campus Life Residence Life Campus Life Student Engagement Student OrganizationsInter-Club CouncilStudent Government CouncilEvent Allocation FormLeadership TrainingCommunity EngagementSpirit InitiativesFreshmen ExperiencesMulticultural Affairs Outreach & Support Student AccountabilityCounseling ServicesCrisis ResourcesTigers Fight HungerParent ServicesVeterans Student Employment Campus Rec Residence Life Conference Housing Dining Services Sustainability Adult, Transfers, Parenting Students Report a Concern about a Student Contact Student Services Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us Living on campus is a game changer. To make the most of your college experience, come live on campus. Not only does it put you in the middle of everything, but research shows that it improves student grades. Carney-Johnston Residence Hall, once the most popular place for Lambuth University students to live, was renovated and reopened in Fall 2013. This historic building, located on the quadrangle between Wilder College Union and the Wellness, Health & Fitness Building (WHFB) on the new UofM Lambuth grounds, offers housing for up to 190 students in single and double rooms with suite-style baths. Follow Us on Instagram for updates & to learn more, @uml_carneyj! Carney Johnston includes a variety of spaces to help residents get the most out of their experience. Carney Johnston Living Room - a large living room with new furniture, vending, a kitchenette, & a brand new smart TV on the first floor that can be used for social activities including RA programs geared towards community building, academics, and personal development. 2nd floor Lounge - a secondary lounge space on the second floor with additional appliances that provides students with a smaller alternative location for social activities and/or studying. 3rd floor Lounge - a lounge space primarily used by our 3rd floor Nursing Interest Community that offers 24-hour access to a quiet study area. Student Interest Communities These are specialized programs that combine conventional residence life experiences with support from faculty and staff in the area of students' special interests. We offer the following: Nursing – Contact Corey Moore at cmoore31@memphis.edu. Indicate your interest in the housing application! We would love to have you as a residential student! Click here to view our competitive housing rates. To apply: Visit your My.Memphis Student Pages Tab and click on My Resources. To the left of the screen, you should find the Housing Application Portal. Under the 3 lined drop down menu you will find the Application for Housing. To ensure your housing application is correctly directed, double check that you selected the LAMBUTH option on the application. Within the housing application, you should be able to select your preferences including, double or single, learning communities, and/or roommates/suitemates. Review our Housing Policies. Fall 2022 Check In 1st Time Freshmen (Frosh Fusion) - August 17th, 9 AM-12 PM Upperclassmen- August 19th, 12 PM-4:00 PM You must schedule your check in time in advance so we know when to expect you. You will receive an email with a link to sign up for a check in time to your Memphis inbox once we receive your assignment confirmation for our building. This email will include additional details for a smooth check in. If you cannot check in during your designated time, you must email Emily Ridgeway to set up an alternative check in time. Join our Residence Hall Council Lambuth Residence Hall Council - APPLY NOW! Residence Hall Council is a student-run university housing governing body. It is our hope for Lambuth RHC to plan events for residents and provide a voice for student concerns. The purpose of Lambuth RHC is to promote the most favorable environment possible in the residence hall and provide the most positive living experience for students living on campus. Residence Hall Coordinator Emily Ridgeway Coordinator of Student Services and Residence Hall 731.425.7349 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.