Skip to content Back to SMU Cox SMU CoxToday, The official magazine of SMU Cox Magazine Bulletin Research Corner Suite Cox 100 Voices Feature Yearbook Development Current Issue Fall 2021 View all Issues Contact Search articles and events: Submit search Magazine Issues Contact SMU Cox Home Search articles and events: Feature SMU Cox’s Expansion Project Will Keep the School Competitive December 22, 2021By Emily Laskowski Development Hal Brierley Reflects on the Brierley Institute’s Growth on Its Fifth Anniversary December 22, 2021 Development SMU Launches $1.5 Billion Fundraising Campaign December 22, 2021 Voices The Kitt Investing and Trading Center Turns 10 December 22, 2021 By Natalie Gempel Voices Goodwill Industries Provides Opportunities for Cox Students December 22, 2021 By Emily Laskowski Online Feature Cox Online MBA Program Enhances Virtual Learning With booming interest, vested faculty and innovative delivery, the 2-year-old program — whose inaugural class graduates this summer — offers working professionals flexibility and is leading MBA instruction into the future. May 12, 2021 By Staci Parks Online Feature Business Law at Cox Is Crucial to a Well-Rounded Business Education Three SMU Cox business law professors bring unique legal and corporate experience to the classroom and their students. May 5, 2021 By Will Maddox Research Polarization Affecting Asset Allocation in the Economy Political polarization is hitting the U.S. economy in new and unexpected ways. It’s even affecting how assets are allocated. In a study by SMU Cox Finance Professor Tarun Patel and co-authors, political polarization was shown to impact the economy through a study of mergers. When firms and their employees had more similar political views, they were more likely to announce a merger, complete it faster and perform better on profitability measures. In more recent years, the impact of polarization has become more evident and costly. The antidote: get along and find common ground. March 3, 2021 By Tarun Patel Research Emissions Disclosures by U.S. Manufacturers Shows Reductions: The Reasons Why Surprise When Accounting Professor Sorabh Tomar of SMU Cox set out on his research journey about greenhouse gas emissions disclosures by facilities, he expected they would receive direct pressure from outside forces like investors, environmental groups and regulators to reduce emissions levels. Instead he found that the facilities, America’s plants and manufacturers, were more concerned with their local peers’ emissions disclosures. He found that public disclosure helped industries become more efficient and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. October 14, 2020 By Sorabh Tomar Research Consumer Marketing Math: Even the Numerate are “Off by 100%” Consumers face difficulties when processing percentages, especially given their variety of uses in today’s information-heavy, marketing and data-rich environment. Consumers, […] February 28, 2022 By Matthew Fisher Research The Supply Chain Crunch: Lessons from Girl Scout Cookie Sales Even as the U.S. economy is emerging from the lows of the pandemic, disruption to global supply chains have threatened […] January 28, 2022 By Sreekumar Bhaskaran Yearbook SMU Cox School of Business Class Notes: Fall 2021 Class of 1968 Lydon Neumann, BBA, was named among the Top 25 Consultants of 2017 by Consulting Magazine and became […] December 22, 2021 Yearbook Cox Active Duty Military and Veterans Are Allies for the School We talked to 14 SMU Cox students who are either active duty military or veterans to find out what they want readers to know about their time in military service. December 22, 2021 Development SMU Cox MBA Programs Fully Covered by Yellow Ribbon Program U.S. Armed Forces members and veterans interested in earning an MBA can now receive a full scholarship at SMU Cox […] December 22, 2021 Development Kim and Bill Shaddock Give $6 Million to SMU Cox North Texas business leader and Cox alum Bill Shaddock wants to nurture business education and enterprise through the creation of Shaddock Hall. December 22, 2021 Back to top Navigate Magazine Issues Contact SMU Cox Home Connect Subscribe for more content, news & updates. This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead © Copyright SMU CoxToday 2022 Privacy Policy Terms of Use