Human Resources - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Human Resources Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Human Resources About HR Careers Careers HR Service Center I-9 and eVerify FML Employee Verification Prior State Service CHRI Request Employees Staff Scholarships New Employees Foreign National Employees Graduate Students Temporary Student Employees Employee Recognition Program HR Departments Benefits Family and Medical Leave Act Information ERS Annual Enrollment Benefits at a Glance Benefits Updates Employee Assistance Program ERS Annual Enrollment - TexFlex Insurance Retirement Worker's Compensation at UH Benefits FAQs Compensation HR Business Partners Reduction in Force Employee Terminations Payroll Services Talent Acquisition Why Work for UH? Staff Employment NHO Request CHRI Request Talent Development Virtual Training LinkedIn Learning Policies SAM HR Policies MAPP HR Policies Common Policies & Resources Administrative Responsibility ACA E-Verify FLSA Regulations Update Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy Workplace Posters PASS Navigation HR Communication HR Online Resource Guide Quick Links: Why Work for UH? Staff Employment Workplace Reimagined POWER UP Wellness UH Holiday Schedule Forms CATALYST App Volunteer Information HR COVID-19 Information HUMAN RESOURCES CATALYST is a learning and development program designed to provide opportunities for staff to enhance knowledge and develop skills for future opportunities within the University of Houston. This program features innovative development courses for Individual Contributors, Supervisors, Managers and Senior Leaders. This spring we're offering courses on Productivity, Leadership, Coaching, Change Management, and more! To view courses currently available and to enroll view the CATALYST Enrollment App. Click HERE to view our course Catalog. HOT TOPICS SUMMER TUITION FOR STAFF SCHOLARSHIPS Applications for the Staff Tuition Scholarship for the 2022 Summer semester will be open beginning Friday, April 1st, 2022! The deadline to submit applications will be by end of day on Friday, April 15tt, 2022. Visit the Staff Tuition Scholarship page for eligibility information. Have questions? Contact the HR Service Center at hrsc@uh.edu. Click here to apply! ePERFORMANCE PROCESS The deadline to review ePerformance with the employee and upload to PeopleSoft is March 14, 2022. Training and resources regarding the Performance document are available on the Human Resources ePorformance website. ePerformance documents for 2022 will be created and available no later than February 28, 2022. The timeline for 2022 ePerformance Documents is as follows: - The due date for employees to enter goals is March 11, 2022 - The due date to Establish Criteria is March 25, 2022. - The due date for Employee Self Evaluations is December 2, 2022 - The deadline to complete 2022 ePerformance documents will be February 28, 2023. For more information on the ePerformance process, please visit the HR ePerformance website. UH MOBILE MAMMOGRAMS This spring the University of Houston’s HR POWER UP Employee Wellness program will host on-campus mammograms provided by The Rose. Mobile Mammography screenings will occur on campus Tuesday, March 15, March 22, and March 29, on the main campus, and Thursday, March 24, at the UH Technology Bridge. Screening times will be from 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in The Rose’s state-of-the-art mobile mammography unit. To take advantage of this on-campus opportunity, REGISTER online (Code: UH) for a time that works for you. If you have difficulty registering, please call 281-464-5136 for help in making your appointment in English or Spanish, or email The Rose mobile team at mobileteam@therose.org. Click here for additional information. Announcements HR - BEYOND STAFF SUPPORT The Human Resources Team extends their support beyond staff and faculty, and happily engages with our student community. Recently, undergraduate students wanting to know more about all aspects of HR were treated to an in-person Q&A session with HR leaders and staff. In addition, one student got a firsthand look at a day in the life of an HR professional, during a recent tour of the new Human Resources Center. The Talent Development Team also delivered a one-hour interpersonal communication workshop to student leaders in the Student Ambassadors Program. SMART GOALS TRAINING The HR Talent Development team has created a SMART Goals training course to help employees and leaders improve their goal creation skills. The course focuses on the five components of S.M.A.R.T., and how to properly apply them when setting goals. The training is available for enrollment via P.A.S.S. in AccessUH and can be accessed the following day in TAP for completion. To request enrollment, log into P.A.S.S. via AccessUH and request enrollment for course, HH2207 - SMART Goals Training. Participants will be able to access the training in TAP the next day. NEW HUMAN RESOURCES CENTER Human Resources is excited to announce we have moved into the all NEW Human Resources Center! The HR Center is located across from the A.D. Bruce Religion Center and was formally known as the old Student Health Center. The new location has undergone a full renovation and includes an all new HR Service Center and Training Room. We look forward to hosting you for CATALYST development courses or to assist with your HR needs. HEALTHIER “U” CALENDAR Create a "Healthier U" for yourself and the ones you love! Visit the Human Resources POWER UP virtual wellness calendar to participate in different no-cost well-being opportunities. Go online for workshops and webinars on nutrition, yoga, cardio dance, meditation, and more! Programs occur on different dates and times and are available to UH employees at no cost. Click the "Click HERE to see all events!" link to see each month's lineup of free activities and how to join in! WELLNESS LEAVE Safeguard your well-being and receive your reward! Are you familiar with the Fitness Release Time and Wellness Leave Policy, MAPP 02 .02 .0 8? Visit your PCP for a ROUTINE PHYSICAL EXAM and complete a simple online health assessment, and you’ll earn 2,500 BCBSTX Blue Points AND receive one full day off from work! To apply for your 8 hours of Wellness Leave or participate in Fitness Release Time (30 minutes, 3x/weekly to exercise), visit the POWER UP Wellness Policies tab and follow the instructions. Let's get social! Human Resources Center Human Resources University of Houston 4367 Cougar Village Dr. Building 525 Houston, TX 77204-5009 hrsc@uh.edu 713-743-3988 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies