Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content APW Undergraduate Undergraduate UG Concentrations Minors Course Descriptions How to Apply UG Academic Records and Advising UG Concentrations UG Concentrations Applied Physiology and Health Management Undergraduate Specialization Sport Management Undergraduate Concentration Sport Performance Leadership Undergraduate Concentration Minors Minors Applied Physiology Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership Master's Degrees Master's Degrees M.S. in Health Promotion Management M.S. in Sport Management Ph.D. in Education Ph.D. in Education Research Wellness Wellness Wellness PRW1 and PRW 2 Wellness Course Descriptions Wellness Class Schedules Faculty Frequently Asked Questions Wellness Facebook Page ☰ Applied Physiology and Wellness Simmons Academics Applied Physiology and Sport Management The Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness offers undergraduate and graduate programs and manages research labs that promote academic rigor and the scientific advancement of the field of applied physiology. The Bachelor of Science in Applied Physiology and Sport Management (APSM) offers concentrations in Applied Physiology and Health Management, Sport Management, and Sport Performance Leadership. The department also offers undergraduate minors in applied physiology, applied physiology and health management, sport management, and sport performance leadership for students earning baccalaureate degrees in other departments at SMU. The department’s graduate programs include an M.S. in Sport Management, an M.S. in Health Promotion Management, and a Ph.D. in Applied Physiology. The three research labs support funded scientific investigations and promote sound practice in the sport, health leadership, and management industries. The Locomotor Performance Lab studies the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance. The Applied Physiology/Biomechanics Lab investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations, and the Cerebrovascular Research Laboratory investigates cerebral blood-flow regulation and the role of the autonomic nervous system in healthy and diseased humans. Master of Science in Health Promotion Management Prospective Students This program serves corporate wellness coordinators, account executives, project managers, community health workers, health service managers, and health coaches and educators. Career and Personal Benefits The Master of Science in Health Promotion Management is a collaborative program that combines foundational health promotion courses taught by industry experts with the world-class management courses provided at the Edwin L. Cox School of Business. Graduates typically work in corporate wellness offices, serve as project managers for health programs, work in community health centers, manage health services, and serve as health coaches and educators. Program Details Master of Science in Sport Management Prospective Students SMU’s Master of Science in Sport Management degree is designed for students who have a passion for the business of sport and who aspire to hold senior-management positions in the billion-dollar sports industry. Career and Personal Benefits Cox School and Simmons School faculty members with real-world experience in professional leagues and teams, media and broadcasting, marketing and sponsorship, facilities and sports equipment, and apparel teach the essential business skills of sport management. Program Details Ph.D. in Education - Applied Physiology Prospective Students The program is designed for the student interested in pursuing a Ph.D. with a strong research design and statistics focus in applied physiology. Career and Personal Benefits The curriculum is largely research and statistics based. Program Details Bachelor of Science in Applied Physiology & Sport Management Prospective Students This program is designed for undergraduate students interested in working in the fitness, wellness, health, and sports industries. Career and Personal Benefits The B.S. in APSM degree program explores health, fitness, and human performance from the perspectives of business, physiology, and ethics. Students focus their studies in one of the following areas. • Sport Management: equips students with the business skills necessary for a variety of careers in the sports industry - including media, marketing, facilities, equipment, and apparel sport professions. • Applied Physiology and Health Management: provides in-depth study of the research-based training methods that are used to develop effective lifestyle prescriptions and that equip students with the skills to design and manage fitness and health facilities for a rapidly-growing older population. • Sport Performance Leadership: designed for students interested in sport leadership, instruction, and coaching. Program Details UG Minors in Applied Physiology & Sport Management Prospective Students Undergraduate “minors” serve students pursuing Bachelor’s degrees in departments other than Applied Physiology and Wellness. Career and Personal Benefits An undergraduate “minor” provides an opportunity to explore an academic area other than and in addition to the undergraduate “major” area. The Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness offers three APSM minors: sport management, applied physiology and health management, and sport performance leadership. Program Details Personal Responsibility and Wellness Prospective Students UG students have the opportunity to take two 1-credit PRW activity courses as electives. Facilitating social, physical, emotional, and mental well-being, these fun and energizing courses include rock climbing, racquetball, martial arts, yoga, swimming, basketball, spinning, self-defense, and mountain sports at SMU’s campus in Taos NM. Career and Personal Benefits The 3-credit PRW 3303 and PRW 3305 courses qualify for Common Curriculum (CC) requirements. Self, Identity & Community Engagement (PRW 3303) satisfies the CC’s community engagement, civics and individual ethics, oral communication, and writing requirements. Personal Responsibility and Community (PRW 3305) satisfies the CC’s community engagement, civics and individual ethics, and oral communication requirements. Program Details Applied Physiology and Sport Management B.S. in Applied Physiology and Sport Management Master's Degrees Ph.D. in Education Research Labs Wellness Program Newsletter 2020 Virtual Graduation Celebration Events Request info Contact Applied Physiology and Sport Management Call or Email Us 214-768-2776 apsm@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall 3101 University Blvd, Suite 306 Dallas, Texas 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter