Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC graduate develops in-home physical therapy company Cincinnati Business Courier highlights Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect By Kyle Shaner Email KyleEmail Kyle May 4, 2022 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup Band Connect is nearing a close on its pre-seed round of funding and will start a pilot with the Department of Defense, the Cincinnati Business Courier reported. Band Connect is developing fitness equipment outfitted with sensors to promote in-home physical therapy and recently launched its first clinical trials. The company offers more than 50 exercises for shoulder conditions and will add exercises for hip and knee conditions. “It's been a really cool experience having the Cincinnati and Ohio ecosystem behind us — from the Venture Lab to the grant funding and the local hospital systems to JumpStart,” said Band Connect co-founder Abby McInturf, a 2018 graduate of UC's College of Design, Architecture, Art and Planning. Read more in the Cincinnati Business Courier. Featured image: The 1819 Innovation Hub, which houses the Venture Lab. Impact Lives Here The University of Cincinnati is leading public urban universities into a new era of innovation and impact. Our faculty, staff and students are saving lives, changing outcomes and bending the future in our city's direction. Next Lives Here. Tags Alumni Association In The News Venture Lab Office of Innovation College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning 1819 Innovation Hub Innovation Agenda Next Lives Here Science & Tech Related Stories Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Who wants to go for a ride? May 27, 2022 When volunteers at the nonprofit 4 Paws for Ability in Xenia, Ohio, are looking for enrichment experiences for their puppies, they turn to a toy that has entertained millions of toddlers around the world. With sales of 500,000 per year, Little Tikes’ Cozy Coupe is considered the best-selling car in America. And it was the 1979 creation of a former University of Cincinnati industrial design student Jim Mariol. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top