Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Leadership Leadership Vice President VP's Leadership Team Diversity Officer Student Advisory Board Student Reps to BOT Committees Programs Programs Special Funding Student Boulevard Guidelines Courageous Change Leader Award Hilltop Excellence Awards Resources Resources Student Event Guidelines Student Values Statement Off Campus Party Registration Alcohol Request Form Student Employment Employment Opportunities Strategic Direction Get Help ☰ Student Affairs Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs Student Boulevard Guidelines SMU Student Boulevard Announcement The Student Boulevard will be hosted on Dallas Hall Lawn for the 2022 Football Season. Due to construction on the Boulevard, the spaces will be reconfigured. We are excited to announce, we will have more student spaces on Dallas Hall lawn! Registered student groups must follow general boulevard guidelines with a few exceptions as noted below. There will be Student Boulevards on the dates below - please note, there will not be a student boulevard the week of Thanksgiving. September 10 September 24 October 14 October 22 November 5 Download the Student Tent Map Full Schedule of Games The request period for Fall 2022 boulevard spaces on the student boulevard has closed. Once assignments have been made, single game requests will be accepted (anticipated July 2022). Guidelines for Participating in the Student Boulevard In accordance with the values of the University and our shared vision for an inclusive campus community, the Boulevard should be a welcome environment for all students at SMU. Space Allocation & Operations Tent spaces are requested through a centralized process. Requests are gathered during the Spring semester and allocations occur over the summer. If there are more requests for specific tent size spaces available, requesting groups will be entered into a lottery. Those not selected will have an opportunity to adjust their tent size request. Once spaces have been assigned based on requests from registered student groups, open spaces per game will be available on a first-come, first-served basis. Please note, requesting changes in space sizes must be formally requested through the online form once it is available. Signs will be provided by the tent vendor and will be affixed to the tent however free-standing signs or letters will not be allowed. Space assignments will be made shortly before the start of the season and organizations should only set up in their assigned spaces - tents will not be allowed to put up walls either independently or through the vendor. Additionally, there will be a single source of entertainment in the Student Boulevard area, meaning no other source of sound or entertainment will be allowed during the Boulevard. Associated Costs There is no cost for a registered student group to have a space, but each group will be responsible for providing their own tent. Tents must comply with the Boulevard guidelines and anything over 20' x 20' requires a permit and must be arranged through SMU's preferred vendor. Communication will be distributed to registered groups. Food and Beverage The university will provide free water on the Boulevard however organizations are responsible for any food or beverage beyond water. Small-group food options may be brought in by students however, large catering orders must go through University preferred vendors. Organizations may choose to pre-purchase alcohol for their organizations should they wish. If an organization is purchasing beer for 21-year-old members, you must pre-ordered through Dining Services. A list of 21-year-old members will be provided to Dining Services based on the organization's roster in Connect.SMU. For home games, you must pre-order by noon on Monday before the game. For Thursday night games, you must pre-purchase by 12noon on the Friday of the previous week before the game day. Scott Ruben is your contact, and his email is srubin@smu.edu. His office is located at 101 Umphrey Lee. 3-tab wristbands will be provided for those 21-year-old members. During Family Weekend and Homecoming, three extra tabs will be added for your organization’s 21-year-old members and one 21-year-old guest. Alcohol service will conclude 15 minutes before kick-off. There will be no day-of alcohol sales available on the Student Boulevard. Setup and Teardown Boulevard set-up time is three hours before game time and teardown must occur within 2 hours of the completion of the game or by 8am the next morning for late-kick off games. Behavior on the Boulevard SMU student organizations and their leaders should consider the implications of their behavior on the Boulevard in addition to the dress code they set, how they advertise, and all social media posts and decorations related to their participation. Failure to comply with any of these guidelines will immediately result in revocation of Boulevard privileges for the remainder of the season (and potentially the following season depending on timing of violations). Additionally, violations may be referred to the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards. Check out the official Boulevard guidelines from SMU Athletics! Information includes tent information (including pricing and regulations), alcohol policies, food and grilling requirements, as well as general campus information for Game Day. Check out the Guidelines Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share