David Winton Bell Gallery Home Exhibitions Current Upcoming Past Virtual Bell Events Upcoming Past Collection Quick Search Advanced Search Drawings Highlights Overview View All Paintings Highlights Overview View All Prints Highlights Overview View All Photography Highlights Overview View All Public Art Sculpture Highlights Overview View All Publications 2010 - present 2000s 1990s 1980s 1970s About The Gallery Hours Contact Us Directions Mailing List Terms of Use Follow Re: Bell Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube About the Gallery The Gallery Hours Contact Us Directions Mailing List Terms of Use General Information David Winton Bell Gallery List Art Building Brown University 64 College Street Providence, RI 02912 Tel 401 863-2932 Fax 401 863-9323 David Winton Bell Gallery The David Winton Bell Gallery is Brown's contemporary art gallery and home to an important part of the University's permanent art collection. Founded in 1971, the Gallery hosts four to five major exhibitions per year, each with associated programming including lectures, performances, and symposia. Broadly concerned with the exhibition of exemplary work by artists living today, the Gallery takes pride in showing artwork of diverse media and content and makes special efforts to support and show the work of emerging or under-recognized practitioners locally, nationally and internationally. Alongside the contemporary arts, the Gallery also makes use of its art historical collections, programming exhibitions on the arts and culture of the last five centuries. Recent exhibitions include solo shows by Melvin Edwards, Carrie Mae Weems, Pierre Huyghe, and Diana Al-Hadid, as well as thematic group exhibitions such as Fertile Ground: María Berrío, Zoë Charlton, Joiri Minaya and Dead Animals, or the curious occurrence of taxidermy in contemporary art. The Bell Gallery maintains a permanent collection of more than 7,000 works of art, dating from the 16th century to the present, with particularly rich holdings in 20th and 21st century works on paper. Drawings by Auguste Renoir, Henri Matisse, and James Abbott McNeill Whistler complement contemporary works by Rina Banerjee, Sean Scully, Michelle Grabner, Denise Green, and Chitra Ganesh. Seminal works, such as Lee Bontecou’s Untitled,1962 sculptural relief and Blue Horizon, Frank Stella’s important transitional painting from 1952 are highlights of the painting and sculpture collections. The encyclopedic print collection runs the gamut of western art from Durer and Aldegrever to Callot and Rembrandt, Hogarth and Goya, Daumier and Manet, Kollwitz and Kirchner, and to Warhol, Schnabel, Mark Dion and Ghada Amer. Particularly strong in mid-century documentation, the photography collection features significant work by Walker Evans, Aaron Siskind, Harry Callahan, Larry Clark, and Danny Lyon, as well as recent additions by Hiroshi Sugimoto, Mickelene Thomas, Wafaa Bilal, and Graciela Iturbide. Named in memory of David Winton Bell ‘54, the gallery is housed in the Albert and Vera List Art Building, a multi-functional building that also includes classrooms, lecture halls, and extensive studio space. Designed by internationally renowned architect Philip Johnson, List Art is located on the crest of College Hill, in close proximity to the RISD Museum and downtown Providence. The triangular jags of the roof line—with skylights installed to light art studios—are a staple of Providence's skyline. © Copyright 2011 David Winton Bell GalleryBrown UniversityTerms of UseDesign by Malcolm Grear Designers David Winton Bell Gallery, List Art Building, Brown University. 64 College Street, Providence, RI 02912