Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Doctoral Programs Faculty at Miami Herbert Business School develop the next generation of thought leaders within economics and business through graduate-level mentoring and rigorous training. Home Graduate Doctoral Programs More in Doctoral Programs More in Doctoral Programs PhD in Business PhD in Economics Our Students Founded in 1925, the University of Miami has long held an international reputation for its innovative and interdisciplinary approach to graduate education. Miami Herbert Business School’s doctoral programs allow students to pursue either a PhD in Business or a PhD in Economics. Both paths equip students with the skills needed to undertake original knowledge creation in these areas, leading to academic placement in the world’s top research universities. The PhD Path Entering students will first complete one of two foundational course tracks: An economic theory/econometrics track designed for students pursuing research in economics and the quantitative areas of finance, management science, marketing science, and operations management; or A psychology/sociology track designed for students pursuing research in consumer decision-making, organizational behavior, or strategy/international business. Depending on their interests, students will then follow specialized programs of study that build extensive expertise in one of these areas. A small program size allows students frequent, one-on-one access to our renowned faculty. If you're ready to embark on a challenging, focused, and meaningful learning experience, we invite you to explore the opportunities that our doctoral program in business or economics provide. Financial Assistance The PhD Program provides financial assistance, including tuition, health insurance, a stipend, and a professional development grant (used to fund research-related expenses, such as attendance to academic conferences and purchase of data). The program provides five years of financial assistance conditioned upon reaching pre-specified academic milestones and receiving satisfactory performance evaluations. Research and teaching assistantships are generally included as part of a student's financial assistance package. Our PhD Program is a full-time program. Students cannot rely on part-time work to pay for any of their expenses. Because of the rigorous academic requirements, we strongly discourage any outside employment other than research with faculty and incidental grading and/or tutoring positions. PhD in Business Concentrations Miami Herbert’s PhD in Business degree allows for concentration in one of these areas of study: Accounting Finance Management Science Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy/International Business Application Information The Doctoral Admissions Committee welcomes applications from individuals whose undergraduate or graduate degrees are from accredited colleges or universities. Acceptance is based upon an evaluation of all presented credentials. A graduate degree is not required. Admissions consideration to the PhD Program takes place in the spring for classes to begin in the fall. For the Fall 2022 semester, we accept applications for the PhD in Economics and all concentrations of the PhD in Business. To ensure full consideration for the next cycle of admission, all application materials for the Fall 2022 semester must be received by January 5, 2022. Decisions on admission and support will be announced before April 15, 2022. Application Requirements - PhD in Business and PhD in Economics An equivalent GPA of B+ or better in undergraduate and graduate (if any) coursework is required for consideration. Strong quantitative skills, as demonstrated through GMAT/GRE scores and prior coursework, and the potential to do and publish high-quality original research are emphasized in the admissions process. Application requirements include: A completed application form submitted online through BusinessCAS A non-refundable $100 fee. Curriculum vitae. Transcripts from each undergraduate and graduate (if any) institutions attended, including summer school, part-time study, or post-graduate, even if only for one course. An additional final transcript showing the degree conferred and date of graduation should be sent after completion of any coursework still in progress at the time of admission. Applicants who received a degree from an international university should request official evaluation of transcripts from all previously attended non-U.S. institutions to be sent to BusinessCAS using World Education Services (WES) within the application. Reports must include a course-by-course WES ICAP evaluation. Three letters of recommendation on the forms provided in BusinessCAS. We strongly encourage all letters by academics, such as your previous instructors or advisors. In some cases, it may be appropriate to ask non-academics, as long as they can speak about your academic preparation and performance. Recommendations should address the student’s academic performance, motivation, ability to conceptualize and deal quantitatively, and research potential, emphasizing evidence of research capability. Official GMAT or GRE score report (less than five years old). For the PhD in Business, either test is acceptable, with a minimum GMAT score of 650 or minimum GRE score of 310. For the PhD in Economics, only the GRE score (minimum 310) is accepted. To report GRE scores, use institution code R5815. To report GMAT scores, use institution code 5818, program code 7NV-S1-11. International Students must submit official IELTS or TOEFL score report (valid up two years). A minimum IELTS score of 7.0 or minimum TOEFL score of 94 (IBT only). To report scores, use institution code 4861 for IELTS and 5815 for TOEFL. If English is not your native language, the IELTS/TOEFL requirement may be waived if you hold an undergraduate or graduate degree from an academic institution within the United States or from one of the English-speaking countries listed on the Graduate School listing for English Proficiency Requirements. Statement of Purpose. You will be asked to write a brief essay (2-3 pages long, double spaced) on the following topics concerning you and your intended field of study: i) Your past work on relevant issues, ii) What excites you most about your chosen field of study, iii) Possible areas of research you might pursue, iv) Any research projects you have completed with faculty, and v) Any other information you would like to provide to the admissions committee. We are particularly interested in any projects that you pursued with a faculty member who is writing a letter of reference for you. All documentation including official transcripts and exam scores must be submitted online through BusinessCAS. Application Form By the Numbers #22 In the World Shanghai Ranking for the quality of our academic research in Business Administration, 2020 30+ Countries Represented by Faculty International Representation One out of every five students comes from abroad to study at Miami Herbert. Watch this video Life as a Miami Herbert Business School PhD Student Carina Cuculiza shares what life as a Miami Herbert Business School PhD student is like. It means regular one-on-one interactions with supportive faculty and the opportunity to do research, assist with teaching students, and more. For more information on Miami Herbert doctoral programs, please contact Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive 221 Jenkins Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 Contact Us PhD Programs SBA-PHD@miami.edu 305-284-2510 Start Your PhD Journey PhD in Business PhD in Economics Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback