Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today In This Section: Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Groups Frequently Asked Questions Join our facebook group U.S. Air Force Academy Graduates Welcome members of the Long Blue Line! No matter when you graduated, you are part of the United States Air Force Academy Family. We appreciate your input, feedback and thoughts and offer this page as a way to reconnect with the Academy and other Grads. ALUMNI NEWS Training Turnaround – MTIs join USAFA team in effort to better prepare future military leaders When Brig. Gen. Michele Edmondson assumed the role of Academy commandant of cadets in the summer of 2019, she arrived just in time to witness Basic Cadet Training… Continue reading Cadets in STEM Spotlight: C1C Kat Kowar Cadet First Class Katarina Kowar chose to attend the United States Air Force Academy for its unparalleled undergraduate programs. A biology major from Woody Creek, Colorado, she has taken full advantage of the opportunities the Academy has to offer. Aside from regular cadet activities, Cadet Kowar has been involved with two STEM research projects… Continue reading Graduate Spirit Mission United States Air Force Academy red classes conducted a COVID-19 themed spirit mission this week. Led by the Class of 1998, RTBs from the Classes of 1978, 1982, 1986, 1990 and 2010 (among others) raised a monumental $12,198 to buy reversible face masks for the red Class of 2022. The average donation to the effort was $98. Continue reading ALUMNI EVENTS Welcome Call with Lt Gen Clark On November 10, 2020, the Association of Graduates and the Air Force Academy Foundation held a welcome call with our new Superintendent, Lt Gen Richard Clark. To watch, click here ALUMNI GROUPS Looking to connect with other United States Air Force Academy Grads? You aren’t alone. The Academy has many supporting foundations, alumni mentorship groups and informal communities that are here to help. For more information, click here. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Looking to connect back with the Academy but unsure of where to start? From how to get a copy of your transcript to speaker requests, we are here to help. We’ve compiled a list of frequently asked questions. To learn more, click here. Connect with Us Facebook: USAFA Graduate Liaison Facebook Group Email: usafa.graduateliaison@afacademy.af.edu Join the Mailing List: click here academy alumni who became NASA Astronauts Learn More ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.