COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Heather Clark May 5, 2021 - Wichitan Heather Clark will take a laboratory research position in St. Louis after graduation from Wichita State University. Heather is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Sierra Gladman May 4, 2021 — Sierra Gladman came to Wichita State to learn graphic design in a beneficial and local environment. She wants to help a company grow using her graphic design skills. Meet A Shocker: Andrea Grisanti May 4, 2021 — Andrea Grisanti is graduating with a bachelors of Fine Arts in graphic design Meet a Shocker: Matthew Ferguson May 4, 2021 – Matthew Ferguson, a native Wichitan, chose to attend Wichita State to be close to his family and discover his passions. He is one of more than 3,500 students eligible for spring 2021 graduation. Meet a Shocker: Caitlyn Hammack May 1, 2021 – Caitlyn Hammack, from Russell, Kansas, came to Wichita State University because she wanted to be close to her family to see them often. During her time at Wichita State, she’s been involved in several organizations, including the Student Government Association. Meet a Shocker: Mackenzie Haas May 1, 2021 – Mackenzie Haas, from Fountain, Colo., was involved in several organizations during her time at Wichita State including the Student Government Association and Uniting Bold Sisters. Meet a Shocker: Payton Morgan May 1, 2021 – Payton Morgan, a native Wichitan, is a Wichita East High School alumnus. He chose to attend Wichita State because of the relationships he already had with Wichita State students and staff. Meet a Shocker: Emily Lopez Meet a Shocker: Anisia Brumley May 14, 2021 — Anisia Brumley, a native Wichitan, is a Wichita Northeast Magnet High School alumna. She chose to attend Wichita State because as a first-generation student, Wichita State provided her with a sense of comfort and familiarity. Meet a Shocker: Brittany Crowder November 30, 2020 - Brittany Crowder is a senior graduating with a sport management degree. Meet a Shocker: A degree 56 years in the making Nov. 18, 2020 — There were two Shocker milestones in 1964: Wichita University became Wichita State University, and a 17-year-old Martha Backman walked onto the Wichita State campus and began her college education. It took 56 years, but the 73-year-old is finally graduating with her degree in aging studies. Meet a Shocker: Zane Storlie Nov. 16, 2020 — Zane Storlie has not only dedicated his time at Wichita State to learning everything he can about computer science, but he’s also been an advocate for computer science education for elementary and middle school students in the area. Zane created a three-unit curriculum to teach Scratch coding to more than 750 students in Wichita Public Schools, and the Derby school district asked him to present a teacher training course to its librarians. Meet a Shocker: Kirsten Long November 16, 2020 - Kirsten Long, from Haven, came to Wichita State University to start her career in education. She credits her field experiences and helpful teachers with preparing her for teaching. Kirsten is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Samuel Pittman Nov. 16, 2020 — Both Samuel Pittman’s parents work at Wichita State University, so he spent a good amount of time on campus as a child. But what really drew him to become a Shocker was the university’s strong sport management program. Meet a Shocker: Morgan Bretches November 16, 2020 - Morgan Bretches, from Wellington, recently was offered a position as laboratory assistant at Mayo Clinic, where she will investigate the meningeal lymphatic system and the brain. Morgan is one of more than 1,200 students eligible for fall 2020 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. First Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©