Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Brown Technology Innovations Just Released: 2021 Annual Report Brown Technology Innovations’ 2021 Annual Report includes stories about faculty inventors, startups and collaborations, and features news about Techstyle Materials (Professor Derek Stein) and Elkurt (Professors Jake Kurtis and Jack Elias). Read the report here. Putting Technology First. The mission of Brown Technology Innovations is to put Brown University’s technology first to drive commercial outcomes that benefit the University and society. With its responsibilities to manage the university’s patent portfolio, the Brown University technology transfer office, called Brown Technology Innovations is first and foremost focused on commercialization. Search Brown discoveries now. We serve two customers: the faculty members who provide invention disclosures for patenting and commercialization; and the investors, entrepreneurs and companies that develop university technology. The faculty customer engages with our office concerning technology – specifically the evaluation of invention disclosures, the technology’s patenting and its licensing. The technology investor customer works with our office because they wish to obtain or support technology. For Brown Technology Innovations, our focus is on Technology First. Read our full strategy here. The following short videos describe our services and projects in more detail. Life Sciences: Explore Commercial Pathways. Brown Technology Innovations. Strategy for Brown Technology Innovations. Neil Veloso, Executive Director, Brown Technology Innovations Intellectual Property Licensing Primer. Kris Brown, Partner, Goodwin Procter LLP (Brown ’89), Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board Member 2020 Updates to Brown’s IP Policy. Len Katzman, Business Development Director, Brown Technology Innovations Startup Case Example: Elkurt: A Platform for Vaccine Development. Jake Kurtis, Stanley M. Aronson Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Chair of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Startup Case Example: Techstyle Materials: Smart Materials for Sustainable Buildings. Derek Stein, PhD, Associate Professor of Physics and Associate Professor of Engineering. Video or read more. We look forward to hearing from you. Please contact our team. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Our Team Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact (BBII) Brown Technology Innovations Advisory Board For Faculty and Inventors News from Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat