Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law Faculty Research Research The SMU Law faculty is recognized throughout the region, nation, and internationally for its contributions to the law. The faculty features numerous recipients of university-wide teaching and research awards, as well as national and international awards and distinctions. Blockchain Technology Professor Carla L. Reyes is an Assistant Professor of Law at SMU Dedman School of Law. She was appointed the Chair of the Texas Work Group on Blockchain Matters in September 2021. The work group is charged with considering policy priorities related to blockchain technology in Texas. Learn more Self-defense and the right to keep and bear arms Professor Eric Ruben's scholarly work has been published or is forthcoming in the California Law Review, Duke Law Journal, Georgetown Law Journal, Iowa Law Review, and Yale Law Journal Forum. He also has provided legal commentary for various popular outlets, including ABC News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, USA Today, CNN, The Atlantic, Vox, Scotusblog, NPR, and CBS Radio. Learn more Senior Caregiving Professor Jessica Dixon Weaver is an expert in child welfare law and public policy, and much of her scholarship focuses on theorizing methods for improvement of the legal systems and policies affecting families and children. Her current research and scholarship focus on the exploration of a theoretical basis to support a unified legal approach to intergenerational caregiving for children and senior citizens. Learn more Academic Centers Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center The Deason Center brings a Stats and Stories approach to criminal legal reform. The Stats: We collect, analyze, and assess the hard data that drive smart, sane, and sensible criminal justice reform. The Stories: We uncover, recount, and amplify the stories of people who live, work, and struggle in our criminal justice system. Learn more Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership The Rowling Center is the only center of its kind in Texas and has emerged as a national leader in the conversation on the intersection of business law and leadership. The Center builds upon the dynamic business and economic environment in Dallas - Fort Worth and the rich business tradition of SMU and the Dedman School of Law. Learn more Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation The Tsai Center explores how law and policy affect scientific research and discovery as well as the development and commercialization of new technologies. The Center also explores the converse—how scientific discoveries and new technologies affect ethics, society, private industry, and governmental institutions and agencies. Learn more Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise 2022 Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram