Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Student Life Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Student Life Why Kansas? With exceptional faculty, top-ranked programs and groundbreaking research institutes and centers, KU Medical Center embraces excellence. Our hard work aims to improve health, not only in our state but also in our region, nation and world. Why Kansas? In a state often recognized for wheat and and The Wizard of Oz, the University of Kansas Medical Center has achieved national acclaim for its health education and research. In the heart of the Heartland, KU Medical Center maintains three separate campuses: an urban environment in Kansas City, Kansas; a big city with rural roots in Wichita; and special emphasis on rural health in Salina. The University of Kansas in Lawrence is a one-hour drive from the Kansas City campus and about twice that time to Wichita and Salina. Separated by distance but not by purpose, the University of Kansas maintains an illustrious and historic reputation in many artistic, scientific and career-launching fields. U.S. News & World Report Rankings KU Medical Center participates in the national college and university rankings conducted by U.S. News & World Report. In the last two years, here are some of our top-level results compared to other public institutions: No. 6: Best Doctorate of Physical Therapy Programs No. 9: Best Medical Schools: Primary Care No. 11: Best Nursing Graduate Programs: Nurse-Midwifery No. 22: Best Undergraduate Nursing Program No. 42: Best Medical Schools: Research No. 47: Best Online Programs: Masters of Science in Nursing U.S. News also recognized our health care partner, The University of Kansas Health System, with a "Best Hospital in Kansas" designation for the University of Kansas Hospital. It's an honor the hospital has earned for 12 years in row. Though the hospital has a separate governing board and administrative system from KU Medical Center, it's a vital component in clinical experiences. To have the hospital receive these awards every year they have been presented means our students are receiving exceptional guidance in both classrooms and clinics. Our health care partner, the University of Kansas Hospital U.S. News rankings are important because they are based on a data-driven analysis of performance measures. For hospitals, that includes patient outcomes, nursing quality and the range of programs offered in any one specialty. They are also based on program reputation. The goal is to help patients with the most complex conditions find the most advanced care. Of the more than 4,500 hospitals evaluated, few rank in multiple specialties. The University of Kansas Hospital, under the auspices of The University of Kansas Health System, ranked in seven adult medical and surgical specialties in the 2021-22 report. They include: Cancer (No. 49) Cardiology & Heart Surgery (tied at No. 45) Ear, Nose and Throat (No. 17) Geriatrics (No. 24) Neurology and neurosurgery (No. 30) Pulmonology and lung cancer (No. 33) Urology (No. 27) Living in Kansas If your vision of Kansas comes from the movies, you might be surprised to learn what Kansas City, Wichita and Salina have to offer. These cities have thriving arts communities, beautiful parks and a wide assortment of things to do during your free time. Known for bebop and barbecue, Kansas City offers the diversity and excitement of a large city with the charm and convenience of Midwest living. Kansas City Living in Kansas City Nicknamed "The Air Capital of the World," Wichita is the largest city in Kansas and offers all of the amenities of a big city with a small-town feel. Wichita Living in Wichita Home to a population of 46,000 people, Salina has a welcome reputation as a vibrant arts community with true rural Kansas feel. Salina Living in Salina Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.