Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events CESH | Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Home About Research Education + Training Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Faculty Staff Doctoral students + Post docs Affiliates Our Areas of Expertise Evidence Based Practice Center Jobs Employment for non-US citizens Research Collaborations Full Catalog of Research Education + Training Resources Software Technical Reports Code + Data Repository Consultation News News New Article To Be Published Soon! May 23, 2022 Kristin Konnyu, PhD, Assistant Professor here at the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health has been notified that a manuscript that she coauthored has been accepted by the ACR Open Rheumatology for publication. The title of the accepted manuscript is, "Generating consistent longitudinal real-world data to support research: Lessons from physical therapists." Watch our Twitter page, we'll tweet when this article has been published. Read More Co-recipients of the Oscar Contreras Ortiz Award May 11, 2022 Ethan Balk, Associate Professor and Gaelen Adam, Senior Research Associate and EPC Program Manager here at the Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health, were two of the multi-co-authors of a paper in the International Urogynecology Journal that won an award from the journal for being their most impactful paper of the year. The paper is entitled, "A Guide for Urogynecologic Patient Care Utilizing Telemedicine During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Review of Existing Evidence," published in print in June 2020. Read More Congratulations to Ian Saldanha - Promotion to Associate Professor! Apr 11, 2022 Congratulations to Ian Saldanha, recent promotion to Associate Professor here at Brown University's School of Public Health. Read More New Member in the Society for Research Synthesis Methodology Mar 19, 2022 Congratulations to Kristin Konnyu, Assistant Professor, for being an invited member of the Society for Research Synthesis Methodology (SRSM). SRSM is an organization that provides a forum for exchanges among those interested in advancing and applying research synthesis methodology. The link to the Society’s website is http://www.srsm.org. Read More New Publication by Alyssa Bilinski Feb 25, 2022 A new publication at JAMA Network Open by Alyssa Bilinski and collaborators. This publication is entitled, "Model-Estimated Association Between Simulated US Elementary School–Related SARS-CoV-2 Transmission, Mitigation Interventions, and Vaccine Coverage Across Local Incidence Levels." Read More Diagnostic Imaging and Medical Management of Acute Left-Sided Colonic Diverticulitis Jan 18, 2022 Watch the video summary at the Annals of Internal Medicine Read More Evaluation and Management After Acute Left-Sided Colonic Diverticulitis Jan 18, 2022 A new publication by Ethan Balk and collaborators. To evaluate postdiverticulitis colonoscopy and interventions to prevent recurrent diverticulitis. Published in Annals of Internal Medicine, January 18, 2022, entitled, "Evaluation and Management After Acute Left-Sided Colonic Diverticulitis." Read more. Read More Handbook of Meta-Analysis by Schmid, Stijnen, White --CRC, Press xvi Aug 5, 2021 This book is for a broad audience of graduate students, researchers, and practitioners interested in the theory and application of statistical methods for meta-analysis. It is written at the level of graduate courses in statistics, but will be of interest to and readable for quantitative scientists from a range of disciplines. The book can be used as a graduate level textbook, as a general reference for methods, or as an introduction to specialized topics using state-of-the art methods. Read More Anya Rader Wallack appointed Senior VP for UVM Healthcare Network Jun 10, 2021 Anya Rader Wallack, CESH Associate Director and Professor of the Practice has been appointed Senior Vice President for Strategic Communications at the University of Vermont Health Network. The CESH team will miss Anya's leadership and team building within the center. She has been a catalyst for change within Brown's health research and policy community and overall health care systems in Rhode Island. Wallack has dedicated her professional career to healthcare reform through research, policy, communications, and advocacy. Read More Understanding and promoting COVID-19 vaccine uptake among marginalized communities in RI Apr 10, 2021 The objectives of this report are to summarize evidence on the barriers and enablers to COVID-19 vaccination among historically marginalized groups and list potential strategies to promote uptake and enhance accessibility of COVID-19 vaccines among these groups. Prepared by: Gregorio Benitez, AB, MPH ‘21 Candidate Kristin J, Konnyu, PhD Brown University School of Public Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Prepared for: Rhode Island Department of Health Mass Vaccination Taskforce Read More Pages 1 2 3 4 next › last » Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Center for Evidence Synthesis in Health Brown University Box G-S121-8 School of Public Health Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top