COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Official graphic for 2022 Kansas Undergraduate Research Days event. March 02, 2022psychologyDepartment of Public Health SciencesCommunity EngagementEconomicsapplied linguisticsCohen Honors College WSU students presenting for Kansas Undergraduate Research Days By WSU Strategic Communications Three Wichita State students’ projects are being highlighted as a part of the Kansas Undergraduate Research Day event March 1-3. “The student research selected this year offers new understanding of communities in Kansas and beyond,” Kimberly Engber, dean of the Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College, said. “These students challenge the boundaries of their majors and push us to think about language, behavioral health, and social determinants. Each year we’re grateful for the opportunity to showcase the high quality of undergraduate work at Wichita State and across Kansas to state legislators and other guests visiting Undergraduate Research Day.” The Cohen Honors College coordinates WSU’s participation in the events every year. Any student may apply to participate, and the selection of students this year was made by a faculty committee. Students, faculty, Kansas Board of Regents members, state lawmakers, and members of the public are invited to register to watch the live video of the event. During the live video, attendants will be able to view the video presentations, comment and post questions for the approximately 30 student presenters from across the state. "Undergraduate Research Days showcase research in Kansas, providing a forum for undergraduates from across Kansas to present their projects to our state legislators and other guests visiting the website,” Dawn Tallchief, assistant director of the Center for Undergraduate Research and the coordinator of this year’s event, said. “This event is exciting. Last year’s event was held online for the first time and based on its attendance, I anticipate we'll have many people from Kansas and beyond who will take part and engage with the presenters.” Student presenters from Wichita State include the following: Kaitlyn Hemberger, senior in applied linguistics, is presenting “An exploration of French loanwords in Congolese dialects of Kiswahili.” Kaitlyn’s faculty mentor is Dr. Mythili Menon, assistant professor of English and director of linguistics. Rory Mata, freshman in aerospace engineering, is presenting “Generation and distribution of misinformation surrounding COVID-19 in Hispanic communities.” Rory’s faculty mentor is Dr. Mythili Menon, assistant professor of English and director of linguistics. Ngoc Vuong, senior in psychology, public health and economics, is presenting “Assessing stakeholder attitudes in Kansas toward behavioral health reform and social determinants of health policies.” Ngoc’s faculty mentor is Nikki Keene Woods, associate professor of Public Health Sciences. Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College The Cohen Honors College at Wichita State challenges ambitious students in any major to build a better future through rigorous classes, problem solving across disciplines, independent and collaborative research, and community service. Read more about Honors College Read more stories like this Related Stories Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Shocker Coalition WSU partners with local community to increase Redbud Trail accessibility bachelor of arts Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Hemberger Graduate Profiles Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Cowen 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©