Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions Everything students need for their journey through medical school. You are here Home > Education > Student Resources Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Columbia Student Service Corps (CSSC) Academic Calendar Academic Advising Career Planning Campus Resources Honor Code and Policies Office of Curricular Affairs Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Office of Student Affairs Student Research at VP&S Student Events Student Financial Aid and Planning Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Student Resources Our No. 1 goal is for students to feel at home as part of the Columbia community. To this end, faculty and administrative staff work together to create a student-centered experience. Academic Calendar View our academic schedule by class, learn about our USMLE deadlines, and plan for our signature school events from the White Coat Ceremony to Commencement. Academic Calendar Career Planning Start exploring career options as early as your first year. Learn about career options and areas of specialty as well as the residency application process. Career Planning Honor Code and Policies Read the Student Honor Code and our policies about the professional and ethical standards required for the practice of medicine. Honor Code and Policies Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Meet the Diversity and Multicultural Affairs team, view resources for URM students, and learn about campus initiatives. Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Student Research at VP&S Explore opportunities for scientific, clinical, and global health research, find a mentor, and explore research seminar options. Student Research at VP&S Office of Student Affairs Meet the Student Affairs team, learn about the VP&S Club, and view information about medical school milestones. Office of Student Affairs Upcoming Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All Student Events Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top