Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Transportation and Parking Menu Main Nav Transportation and Parking Forms Back Back Close About Overview Forms Accessibility Contact Parking Overview Faculty and Staff Students Visitors Athletic Event Parking Off-Campus Parking Appeals Regulations & Enforcement Parking Permit Rules Traffic & Parking Enforcement Citations & Sanctions Parking Advisory Council Nonresident Student Drivers Shuttles Commuting Get Answers Overview Student Parking Permits Faculty and Staff Parking Vendor & Contractor Parking Permits Visitor Parking Permits Tickets & Appeals Football Game Days Forms Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Visitors Home Parking Visitors Visitors Athletic Event Parking Off-Campus Parking Visitor Parking Visitor parking is available in the University's two central garages–the Commonwealth Avenue Garage and the Beacon Street Garage. Upon entry to the garage, all visitors must take a ticket. A paid or validated ticket is required to exit the garage. Athletic Event Parking Contractor/Vendor Permit Request Parking and Traffic Regulations Validated Parking Request Form Parking for People with Disabilities Parking Maps Garage Parking Rates and Hours General Policies and Procedures Garage Exit Process On-site Security and Assistance Special Meetings or Events Student Visitor Parking Vendor/Contractor Parking GPS Directions Parking maps Chestnut Hill Campus Newton Campus Brighton Campus 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Garage Parking Rates Duration Cost 0–20 minutes $0.00 20–60 minutes $6 1–2 hours $12 2–3 hours $18 3–4 hours $24 4–7 hours $28 Daily max. $28 Weekend * $10 per every 12 hours * Weekends begin on Fridays at 5 p.m. and end Monday at 2 a.m. No permit is needed to park over the weekend. All vehicles must exit the garage by 2 a.m. Monday morning. Vehicles left in the garage after that time are subject to ticketing/towing. **New charges begin at 6:00 a.m. Please note: No overnight visitor parking in either garage on weekdays from August 29, 2021, through May 5, 2022. General Policies and Procedures Visitor Parking is only available in the garages. No overnight visitor parking in either garage on weekdays from August 29, 2021 through May 5, 2022. Weekend parking costs are $10.00 per every 12 hours. No permit is required. All vehicles must exit the garage by 2:00 a.m. Monday morning. Vehicles left in the garage after that time are subject to ticketing/towing. All employees must have a valid permit and prox card/EZ pass in order to enter and exit. Failure to have either will result in the employee having to pay visitor rates in the garage. Volunteers, vendors, and contractors with approved G parking privileges must have a valid permit and transponder to enter and exit. Visitor Parking Locations and Information Commonwealth Avenue Garage Levels 2 - 6 (white-lined spaces only) Beacon Street Garage Levels 1 - 3 (white-lined spaces only) No other visitor parking locations are allowed without specific authorization. Upon entry to the garage, all visitors must take a ticket. A paid or validated ticket is required to exit the garage. No other visitor parking locations are allowed without specific authorization. Garage Exit Process Pay station locations and payment options Beacon Street Garage: 2nd floor next to the exit. Payment may also be made by credit card only at the exits. Commonwealth Avenue Garage: 1st-floor elevator lobby. Payment may also be made by credit card only at the exits. Payment may be made with cash, Visa, MasterCard, or American Express. Once payment is made, the pay station will validate the ticket to be used at the exit gate. If paying at the exit gate reciept will be printed and gate arms will lift. Validated Ticket Holders Guests who have received a validated ticket from a department or had their ticket validated do not have to go to the pay station. Please proceed directly to the exit scan the original ticket followed by the validated ticket at the exit column. University Validated Guest Parking University Validated Guest Passes are distributed for departmental use. These passes are limited in number and should be used accordingly. No additional passes will be issued during the year. On-Site Security and Assistance Both garages have security cameras at exit points that are not routinely monitored. In the event of an emergency, there is a call button located on the exit ticket column that connects to the BCPD Communications Center along with several blue light phones located throughout both garages for emergencies that connect to the BCPD Communications Center. Weekend parking costs $10.00 per 12 hours from 6:00 p.m. Friday up to 2:00 a.m. Monday, with new charges starting at 6:00 a.m. No permit is required. All vehicles must exit the garage by 2:00 a.m. Monday. Special Meetings or Events For assistance in planning special meetings or events, contact transportation@bc.edu. Student Visitor Parking Due to space limitations, Boston College does not have parking available to provide for visitors of students during the week. A "visitor" is defined as anyone who is NOT a full- or part-time student, faculty, or staff member. Undergraduate students living on campus or within one mile of public transportation and resident students are not eligible for permits and are not eligible to park as visitors on campus. Transportation and Parking recommends using our website to look at parking areas nearby that are safe and secure. Rates and distance from campus vary, but we encourage you to utilize them and not park on city streets in the interest of being a good neighbor. Options for off-campus visitor parking Weekend Visitor Parking Parking for visitors on weekends is available in the Commonwealth Avenue Garage at a flat rate of $10.00 per exit, above level 3 only, and in the Beacon Street Garage on levels 3 & 4 from Friday at 6:00 p.m. until Monday at 2:00 a.m. Vehicles parked in any other location on campus or without a permit after this time will be ticketed and possibly towed. Should your car still be in the garage after 2:00 a.m., you will also be responsible for paying the flat lost-ticket rate of $25 to retrieve it. Though BC students are not considered visitors, they may park their cars in the Commonwealth Garage according to the "Visitor policy" immediately above. After 11:00 p.m. on the Friday before a home football game, no vehicles are allowed to park on campus to accommodate the thousands of fans who will arrive the next day to cheer on the BC Eagles. We again refer you to our website for local garage information to park your car. More Information Below are links to ways back and forth from campus. Veterans Taxi takes Eagle Bucks. MBTA: http://mbta.com/ Veterans Taxi: http://www.veteranstaxi.com/, (617) 527-0300 Please contact Transportation and Parking with any questions during regular business hours at transportation@bc.edu or (617) 552-0151. After regular business hours, please call the Boston College Police Department at (617) 552-4440 for information. Vendor/Contractor Parking All vendors/contractors must have a parking permit to park on campus. Vendors/contractors are responsible for immediate payment of all tickets. Department funds cannot be used to pay ticket fines. Failure to adhere to Boston College permit and parking rules and regulations will result in loss of all on-campus parking privileges and cancellation of permit. Lost or stolen permits must be reported to the Transportation and Parking Office and BCPD. Replacement cost is equal to face value of permit. Vendors/Contractors Frequently on Campus Vendors who are frequently on campus will be issued a GVC (Vendor/Contractor) permit. This permit will apply to consultants as well as engineers, architects, service/maintenance providers, sales representatives, etc. Permits are available for $100 a month. This is required for Newton, Lower, and Brighton campus parking areas. Based on some project needs, vendor/contractors will be restricted to specific parking areas. Main Gate Middle Campus access is restricted and parking must be prearranged as needed through Transportation and Parking. Vendors/Contractors—One-Time Site Evaluation or Walk-Through Department will direct vendor/contractors (includes consultants, engineers, architects, etc.) to visitor parking. If Main Gate access is required, they must contact the Transportation and Parking office via transportation@bc.edu. Information needed includes dates, first and last name, location, and Department contact person. Drop-Off Deliveries in Clearly Marked Company Vehicle Driver is to be instructed to check in with gate attendant. Parking is permitted for up to one hour only in service/delivery area. If a delivery or service call requires more than one hour to complete, the Transportation and Parking Office must be contacted via transportation@bc.edu to prevent ticketing and/or towing. GPS Directions Main Gate 140 Commonwealth Ave, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Beacon Street Garage 156 Beacon Street, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Commonwealth Avenue Garage 40 St. Thomas More Rd, Boston, MA 02135 Back To Top Back To Top Transportation and Parking 617-552-0151 transportation@bc.edu About Parking Shuttles Commuting Get Answers @BC_Parking Parking Maps Faculty & Staff Students Visitors Auxiliary Services Division of Auxiliary Services BC Bookstore Dining Services Heights Catering Event Management Athletic Concessions Eagle Print The Connors Center 2101 Commonwealth Transportation & Parking Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College