Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office Xavier Home Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office Menu Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office Home Have You Experienced Sex Discrimination? Confidential Advocacy and Support Xavier Sex Discrimination Policies Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office Role and Responsibilities Xavier Employee Reporting Responsibilities Title IX & Interpersonal Violence Training Materials Media Faculty and Staff Campus Climate Surveys IMPORTANT NOTICES In May 2020, the U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights issued new rules on how schools must implement Title IX. Find a summary of the new rules and key takeaways of Xavier's response. During this time, it is very important that we practice the promotion of social distancing and rely on the advice of health experts. Thus, Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office employees are working remotely at times. We are available to meet in-person, by Zoom, or by phone. Please contact Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Kate Lawson at lawsonk1@xavier.edu or (513) 745-3046 to schedule a time to connect. Knowledge. Accountability. Care. Xavier University Notice of Non-Discrimination Title IX is the federal civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on sex in all federally funded education programs and activities. In compliance with Title IX, Xavier University does not discriminate based on sex in any education or activity, including admission and employment. Sex discrimination includes sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, harassment or discrimination based on pregnancy, parenting, sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Xavier University does not tolerate sex discrimination. If a student or employee believes they have experienced sex discrimination or has questions about Title IX, please contact Xavier’s Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator Kate Lawson at 332B Gallagher Student Center, 3800 Victory Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45207, 513-745-3046, lawsonk1@xavier.edu or the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights at U.S. Dept. of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 400 Maryland Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20202, 800-421-3481, OCR@ed.gov. For free, confidential advocacy and support, contact Xavier’s Advocacy & Prevention Coordinator at 513-904-9013. The Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office leads Xavier's efforts to prevent and address sex discrimination, including all forms of TItle IX Sexual Harassment and Interpersonal Violence. Our mission is a safe environment for all students, faculty, staff and visitors at Xavier. Xavier's Title IX and Interpersonal Violence policies: Prohibits all forms of sex discrimination (including sexual harassment, sexual violence, dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, and retaliation against individuals reporting sex discrimination) and discrimination, harassment or violence based on a person's sex, gender identity, or sexual orientation. Protect students, employees, and visitors of all gender identities and sexual orientations. Requires Xavier to have a prompt, equitable resolution process in place to address sex discrimination complaints, which includes a reliable, impartial, and adequate investigation by Xavier's Title IX Office. Title IX: Protects pregnant and parenting students. More about Academic Success of Pregnant and Parenting Students. Requires that members of both genders have equal opportunities to participate in sports and receive the benefits of competitive sports. More about Gender Equity. No police report needs to be filed for Xavier to investigate and determine whether a violation of its policies has occurred. Xavier must and will respond to sex discrimination complaints under its own policies regardless of whether a student makes a police report and/or whether a criminal investigation is proceeding. Xavier's policies on sex discrimination can be found in the Xavier Student Handbook (applies when a student is accused of engaging in sex discrimination) and the Harassment Code and Accountability Procedures (HCAP) (applies when an employee is accused of engaging in sex discrimination). These policies describe in detail the investigation and complaint resolution process for sex discrimination complaints at Xavier. Some forms of sex discrimination may also violate Ohio law. Definitions of these crimes as well as how Ohio law defines consent can be found in Student Handbook Section 1.6.5. Xavier students and employees have rights under Xavier's sex discrimination policies. A full description of these rights is available in the Student Handook and the HCAP. Xavier students and employees have many reporting and support options, including confidential resources if the individual is not yet sure what they want to do. A Xavier student has the right to report to the Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office and/or law enforcement (Xavier University Police Department and/or local police department). Xavier addresses student safety, housing, academic, employment, counseling, immigration and other potential needs regardless of whether the individual engaging in sex discrimination against the student in a Xavier community member and regardless of whether the student files an official report with law enforcement and/or the Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Office. Information on the many interim and supportive measures Xavier may implement students and employees impacted by sex discrimination may be found in the Student Handbook and HCAP. Xavier encourages all community members to educate themselves on how to recognize sex discrimination and provides campus-wide education to students, faculty and staff on engaging safely and effectively as a bystander. All questions and concerns regarding Title IX and sex discrimination may be directed to Xavier's Title IX Interpersonal Violence Response Office staff: Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Coordinator: Kate Lawson--(513) 745-3046, lawsonk1@xavier.edu, Gallagher Student Center 332B Title IX and Interpersonal Violence Response Program Director: Talia Tuesta-- (513) 745-2841, tuestat@xavier.edu, Gallagher Student Center 332C Deputy Title IX Coordinator for Athletics: Susan Cross Lipnickey-- (513) 745-2855, lipnickeys@xavier.edu, Athletics Department The U.S. Department of Education Office of Civil Rights enforces Title IX. Inquiries should be directed to the Office for Civil Rights Cleveland Office. Call Send SMS Add to Skype You'll need Skype CreditFree via Skype Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram