Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit At a Glance A leader in business education and research. Home About At a Glance More in this section About What We Stand For Thought Leadership Diversity and Inclusion Driving A Global Mindset Building Global Alliances Developing Global Leaders "Glocal" Perspectives Global Responsibility International Accreditation and Rankings Educating Principled Leaders Dedication to Sustainability Experiential Learning At a Glance Meet the Dean John A. Quelch Life at Miami Herbert Life in Miami | Miami Herbert University of Miami Student Housing Miami Herbert Leadership Miami Herbert’s Advisory Council Academic Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Founded in 1929, Miami Herbert Business School is a leader in preparing individuals and organizations to excel in the complex, dynamic, and interconnected world of global business. One of 12 schools and colleges at the University of Miami, Miami Herbert offers undergraduate, master’s, doctoral, and executive education programs. Located in a global hub for international business, the School is widely recognized for its leadership in global perspective, student and faculty diversity, and engagement with the business community. Fast Facts About Miami Herbert Undergraduate BSBA and BBA Majors Accounting Business Analytics* Business Technology Economics Entrepreneurship Finance Global Business Studies** Health Management and Policy Human Resource Management International Finance and Marketing Legal Studies Management Marketing Real Estate *May only be pursued in the BSBA curriculum. **By invitation in the freshman year and may only be pursued as a co-major. For more details on these programs, please click here. MBA Programs Full-time MBA (STEM-Designated) Accelerated MBA Accelerated MBA in Real Estate Professional MBA Online MBA Global Executive MBA Executive MBA for Health Management and Policy JD/MBA JD/MBA/LLM MD/MBA BArch/MBA For more details on these programs, please click here. Specialized Master's Programs Master of Accounting (STEM-Designated) Master of Science in Business Analytics (STEM-Designated) Master of Science in Finance (STEM-Designated) Online Master of Science in Finance Master in Health Administration Master of International Business Master of Science in Leadership Master of Science in Taxation (STEM-Designated) Master of Science in Sustainable Business (STEM-Designated) For more details on these programs, please click here. Doctoral Programs Accounting Economics Finance Management Science Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy/International Business For more details on these programs, please click here. Certificates & Boot Camps Certificates Leadership Certificate Graduate Business Certificate Boot Camps Fintech Boot Camp Technology Project Management Boot Camp For more details on these programs, please click here. Accreditation Miami Herbert has earned accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC); Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the world’s leading accrediting body that ensures quality and continuous improvement; EQUIS, which recognizes business schools that are trying to make an impact beyond their domestic frontier; and the Education Quality Accreditation Agency (EQUAA), whose mission is to increase the academic quality of programs, institutes, careers, faculties and universities, and other educational units in Latin America and the world. Rankings #1 MBA School in the World for Teaching Law The top school for law teaching as voted by alumni who responded to a survey for the Financial Times MBA 2022 ranking. Ranked 6th in the U.S. And 21st Internationally. Miami Herbert continues to be recognized as a leader in business sustainability education. #16 MS in Business Analytics Program in the U.S. QS University Rankings 2020 #7 ranked for Business School Diversity Bloomberg Businessweek's B-School Diversity Index, 2021 #20 Best Graduate School for Health Care Management U.S. News & World Report, 2019 #5 In the U.S., #17 world-wide For corporate social responsibility, in Financial Times Global MBA Rankings 2021. #22 In the World in Business Administration 2020 Academic Ranking of World Universities #31 Global Executive MBA Program in the U.S. The Economist’s 2020 “Which MBA?” Executive MBA Rankings #33 MS in Business Analytics Program in the World QS University Rankings 2020 #49 Full-Time MBA Program in the U.S. Financial Times, 2020 #30 Best Undergraduate Business Schools in the U.S. Poets & Quants, 2022 #49 Full-Time MBA Program in the U.S. Financial Times, 2020 #72 Full-Time MBA Program in the U.S. Bloomberg BusinessWeek, 2019-20 By the Numbers 2,300 Undergraduate Students 900 Graduate Students 45,000+ Alumni Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback