Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Parents & Guardians Search BC.edu Links Residential Life Menu Main Nav Residential Life Forms Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Residential Ministry Job Opportunities Student Staff Resident Directors Graduate Student Assistants Resident Assistants Summer Student Staff Contact Related Links Policies Hall Opening and Closing Dates Signature Programs Living in BC Housing Overview First-Year Student Housing Housing Assignments & Room Selection Residence Halls Room and Board Rates Floor Plans & 3D Models Facilities & Furnishings Hall Access Dry Cleaning Service Mail and Package Delivery Laundry Service Hall Openings & Closings BC Clean Spring 2022 Closing Signature Programs Living & Learning Communities Residence Hall Association Recovery Housing The Recovery House Parents & Guardians Summer Housing Related Links Office for Institutional Diversity Housing Appeals Roommate Concerns BC Dining Eagle One ID Card Transportation & Parking Thea Bowman AHANA and Intercultural Center Living Off Campus Overview FAQs Landlord and Agent Info Community Expectations Overview Policies Housing Concerns Forms Forms Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents & Guardians BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Floor Plans & 3D Models Home Living in BC Housing Residence Halls Floor Plans & 3D Models Floor Plans & 3D Models Floor Plans List of Halls and Location Halls by Room Type Alphabetical Cheverus Claver Cushing Duchesne (East & West) Fenwick Fitzpatrick Gabelli Greycliff Gonzaga Hardey Ignacio Keyes (North & South) Kostka Loyola Medeiros Modulars Ninety Reservoir Roncalli Rubenstein Shaw Sixty-six Stayer Thomas More Vanderslice Voute Walsh Welch Williams Xavier Location Lower Campus Gabelli Greycliff Ignacio Modulars Ninety Reservoir Rubenstein Sixty-six Stayer Thomas More Vanderslice Voute Walsh College Road Roncalli Welch Williams Upper Campus Cheverus Claver Fenwick Fitzpatrick Gonzaga Kostka Loyola Medeiros Shaw Xavier Newton Campus Cushing Duchesne (East & West) Hardey Keyes (North & South) Apartment Style: 2 Person - 1 Bedroom Reservoir Apartment Style: 3 Person - 1 Bedroom Reservoir Apartment Style: 4 Person - 2 Bedroom Gabelli, Voute, Ignacio, Rubenstein, Thomas More, Reservoir Apartment Style: 6 Person - 3 Bedroom Ignacio, Rubenstein, Modulars, Thomas More Suite Style: 4 Person - 2 Bedroom Walsh Suite Style: 6 Person - 2 Bedroom Ninety Suite Style: 6 Person - 3 Bedroom Stayer Suite Style: 8 Person - 4 Bedroom Stayer, Ninety, Vanderslice, Walsh Suite Style: 9 Person - 3 Bedroom Vanderslice Traditional Style: Doubles, Triples, Quadruples Lower Campus Greycliff, Sixty-six College Road Roncalli, Welch, Williams Upper Campus Cheverus, Kostka, Medeiros, Claver, Loyola, Xavier, Fenwick, Fitzpatrick, Gonzaga, Shaw Newton Campus Hardey, Cushing, Duchesne (East and West), Keyes (North and South) Google Map of Residence Halls Room Types & 3D Models Overview Traditional Suite Apartment Boston College offers three main types of rooms: traditional, suite, and apartment. This page describes and gives an image of a standard version of each type of room. The actual room you live in might not look exactly like the images provided as layouts change from building to building. Note that each type of room is not available on each part of campus, so be sure to pay attention to the locations given in the descriptions. Room Types: During the application processes, you may be asked for your housing room type preferences. Room descriptions are made up of three different pieces of information: (1) room style, (2) capacity, and (3) campus location. Here are some examples of room descriptions: Style Capacity Location Traditional 3-Person College Road Apartment 4-Person Lower Campus Traditional Style Residences: Traditional style halls have varying combinations of double, triple, quadruple, or lofted triple rooms. They have common bathrooms on each floor. Residents in these halls must enroll in the full University Meal Plan. While there is some variety to the shape and layout of each room type depending on the hall, a standard version of each room type is described and pictured below. Traditional style halls are found on all our campuses and include the following halls: Roncalli, Welch, Williams, Claver, Loyola, Xavier, Fenwick, Cheverus, Kostka, Medeiros, Fitzpatrick, Gonzaga, Shaw House, Keyes Hall, Hardey House, Cushing Hall, Duchesne, 66 Commonwealth Avenue, and Greycliff. Traditional Single Room: Traditional single rooms are located on the Upper and Newton Campuses as well as 66 Commonwealth Ave. and Greycliff Hall. A typical traditional single room at Boston College is approximately 8 feet wide by 12 feet long. These rooms come furnished with a desk, bed, dresser, and closet. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that this image is a generalized representation of a single room at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of every traditional single. Traditional Double Room: Traditional double rooms are located on the Upper, Newton, and College Road Campuses as well as 66 Commonwealth Ave. and Greycliff Hall. A typical traditional double room at Boston College is approximately 12 feet wide by 16 feet long. These rooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, and 2 closets. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that these images are a generalized representation of a traditional double room at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of every traditional double. Traditional Triple Room: Traditional triple rooms are located on the Upper, Newton, and College Road Campuses as well as 66 Commonwealth Ave. A typical traditional triple room at Boston College is approximately 23 feet wide by 16 feet long. These rooms come furnished with 3 desks, 3 beds, 3 dressers, and 3 closets. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that these images are a generalized representation of a traditional triple room at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of every traditional triple. Traditional Lofted Triple Room: Traditional lofted triple rooms are located on the Upper campus. A lofted triple room at Boston College is approximately 12 feet wide by 16 feet long.* These rooms come furnished with 3 desks, 3 beds, 3 dressers, and 2 closets. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that this image is a generalized representation of a lofted triple room at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of every lofted traditional triple. *Pursuant to its authority under Chapter II of the Massachusetts Housing Code, minimum standards of fitness for human habitation (105 CMR 410.100), the city of Newton Health and Human Services Department has granted a variance to the minimum square footage requirements (105 CMR 410.400) to allow specific rooms to be used as triples. Traditional Quadruple Room: Traditional quad rooms are located on the Upper, Newton, and College Road Campuses. A typical traditional quad room at Boston College is approximately 16 feet wide by 36 feet long. These rooms come furnished with 4 desks, 4 beds, 4 dressers, and 4 closets. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that this image is a generalized representation of a traditional quad room at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of every traditional quad. Suite Style Residences: Suites have two or three people per bedroom, with either four, six, seven, eight, or nine people per suite. Each contains a private bathroom and common area within the suite. Residents are responsible for maintaining the cleanliness of their suites. Residents in suite style halls are required to have the full University Meal Plan. Suites are found in: Walsh, Vanderslice, 90 St. Thomas More, and Stayer Halls. 4 Person, 2 Bedroom Suite: 4 person, 2 bedroom suites are located in Walsh hall. A typical 4-person suite at Boston College contains two, double-occupancy bedrooms, a small entry way, a storage closet and a bathroom. The bedrooms have approximately 140 square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, 2 desk chairs and 2 closets. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Please note that these images are a generalized representation of 4 person suites at Boston College and may not depict the exact layout of suite. 6 Person, 2 Bedroom Suites: 6 person, 2 bedroom suites are located in 90 St. Thomas More Hall. A typical 6 person suite at Boston College contains two, triple-occupancy bedrooms, a common living room, 1 bathroom and a kitchenette and dining area. The bedrooms have approximately 180 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have almost 200 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 1 desk, 3 beds, 3 dressers, 1 desk chair and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have 1 couch, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. These rooms are not lofted triple rooms and are not eligible for the lofted triple rebate. 8 Person, 4 Bedroom Suites: 8-person, 4 bedroom suites are located in Vanderslice, 90 St. Thomas More, Stayer Hall, and Walsh halls. A typical 8-person apartment at Boston College contains four, double-occupancy bedrooms, a common living room, 2 bathrooms and a kitchenette and dining area. The bedrooms have approximately 170 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have almost 300 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, 2 desk chairs and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have 2 couches, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table and 4 chairs. 8-person suites in Vanderslice, 90 St. Thomas More, and Stayer Halls have full-sized refrigerators. The 8-person rooms in Walsh Hall have refrigerators. 9 Person, 3 Bedroom Suites: 9 person, 3 bedroom suites are located in Vanderslice Hall. A typical 9-person suite at Boston College contains three, triple-occupancy bedrooms, a common living room, 2 bathrooms and a kitchenette and dining area. The bedrooms have approximately 170 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have almost 300 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 1 desk, 1 desk chair, 3 beds, 3 dressers, and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have 2 couches, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. These rooms are not lofted triple rooms and are not eligible for the lofted triple rebate. Apartment Style Residences: Apartments have two or three people per bedroom, with either two, three, four, or six people per apartment. Each contains a private bathroom, living room, dining area, and full kitchen. Residents are responsible for maintaining the cleanliness of their apartments. Residents in apartments are not required to participate in the University Meal Plan; however, may elect to sign up for the Flex Dining Plan. The areas of apartments include the Modular Apartments, Rubenstein, Ignacio, Voute, Gabelli, Thomas More Apartments, and Reservoir Apartments. Apartments are located on Lower Campus. 2 Person, 1 Bedroom Apartments: 2 person, 1 bedroom apartments are located in: Reservoir Apts. A typical 2 person apartment at Boston College contains one, double-occupancy bedroom, a common living room, 1 bathroom and a kitchen and dining area. The bedrooms have approximately 180 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have approximately 300 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, 2 desk chairs and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have a love seat, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table or breakfast bar and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. 3 Person, 1 Bedroom Apartments: 3 person, 1 bedroom apartments are located in: Reservoir Apts. A typical 3 person apartment at Boston College contains one, triple-occupancy bedroom, a common living room, 1 bathroom and a kitchen and dining area. The bedroom has approximately 210 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have approximately 300 combined square feet of space. The bedroom comes furnished with 3 desks, 3 beds, 3 dressers, 3 desk chairs and 3 closets. The living room and dining room have a love seat, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table or breakfast bar and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. 4 Person, 2 Bedroom Apartments: 4 person, 2 bedroom apartments are located in: Gabelli, Voute, Ignacio, Rubenstein, Thomas More Apts, and Reservoir Apts. A typical 4-person apartment at Boston College contains two, double-occupancy bedrooms, a common living room, 1 bathroom and a kitchen and dining area. The Ignacio and Rubenstein Hall 4-person apartments have 2 bathrooms. The bedrooms have approximately 160 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have approximately 300 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, 2 desk chairs and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have a love seat, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table or breakfast bar and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. 6 Person, 3 Bedroom Apartments: 6 person, 3 bedroom apartments are located in: Modulars, Ignacio, Rubenstein, and Thomas More Apts. A typical 6 person apartment at Boston College contains three, double-occupancy bedrooms, a common living room, 1 bathroom and a kitchen and dining area. The Ignacio and Rubenstein Hall 6 person apartments have 2 bathrooms. The bedrooms have approximately 150 square feet of space and the living room and dining room areas have approximately 350 combined square feet of space. These bedrooms come furnished with 2 desks, 2 beds, 2 dressers, 2 desk chairs and 2 closets. The living room and dining room have a love seat, 2 chairs, a coffee table, a dining room table or breakfast bar and 4 chairs. Please be sure to bring your own linen, as it is not included with the room. Back To Top Back To Top Residential Life Maloney Hall 413 617-552-3060 reslife@bc.edu About Living in BC Housing Living Off Campus Community Expectations Get Answers Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College