SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Executive Education Executive Education Overview Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Overview Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable What is the HR Roundtable? Join DFW's Leading Companies The SMU COX Human Resources Roundtable is a forum for a select group of strategic HR leaders. Led by Academic Director Marcus Butts, the Roundtable meets quarterly to examine strategic people issues. Participants are limited to the senior HR person in their organization or company. Members are selected on the basis of their stature in the Human Resources community as well as the reputation of the organizations they serve. Our purpose is to provide a continuing forum as a means for this select group of executives to exchange strategic ideas with their peers on a regular basis. With SMU as the sponsor, the Roundtable has access to some of the latest findings in academic research and a renowned pool of speakers. Click here for more information on membership and sponsorship opportunities. Unique Combination of Operational and Academic Excellence SMU COX affiliation and access Select group of practitioners Select group of non-competing service provider sponsors Thought-leading speakers Networking, relationship building & strategic dialog Jose Bowen-Speaker, Shane Goodwin-Associate Dean and Tony Bridwell-Advisory Board Member HR Roundtable Sponsors Membership Reception Networking before a meeting Anna Kay Rice – Advisory Board Member and member Jennifer Gamboa-Copeland Members connecting during the reception Jump To A Section Advisory Board Membership Sponsorship 2022 Meetings Annual Conference Past Speakers Current Members Advisory Board Advisory Board Members and sponsors guide the Roundtable’s activities. Tony Bridwell, SVP, Chief People Officer, Ryan LLC Adrianne Court, Chief HR Officer, Tealium Gary Eisenstat, Sponsor Representative, Ogletree Deakins Linda Irby, EVP and HR Director, PlainsCapital Bank Beth Loomer, Director, HR, Methanex Amy Messersmith, Chief Human Resources Officer at U.S. Anesthesia Partners, Inc. Maryam Morse, EVP HR, Andrews Distributing Anna Kay Rice, HR VP of Operations, Frontier Communications Sherry Vidal-Brown, Chief People Officer, Caliber Collision Kiel Werking, Sponsor Representative, Holmes Murphy Membership Membership for the SMU COX HR Roundtable is limited to the key senior HR person in an organization or company. Members are selected on the basis of their stature in the Human Resources community as well as the reputation of the recognized organizations they serve. Benefits of membership: Peer to peer networking and dialog on strategic issues related to human capital and the business; deep and intimate exposure to business leaders, executive practitioners, and thought leaders in relevant fields; affiliation with Cox School of Business Annual dues are $575. To join as a member or learn more, contact Sheri Moore at shmoore@smu.edu or 214.768.9113 Sponsorship A Place at the Table Join a select group of HR service providers who bring thought leadership and insight to a dynamic group of HR Executives. Why Sponsor the Roundtable? Sponsors of the HR Roundtable will have access to a forum of leaders in the human resources field. As a sponsor, you will build relationships with select HR executives, you will be a part of discussions regarding strategic people issues. Intimate Size and Senior Level The Roundtable, hosted and administered by SMU, is limited to an organization’s senior HR person. This intimate group of senior level managers meets three times a year on the SMU campus in Dallas. And every year, the group gathers for its annual conference. Sponsor representatives are included in all meetings as well as the annual conference. Current Sponsors CAPTRUST Career Management Partners Holmes Murphy Limeade Ogletree Deakins To Join: An annual sponsorship is $3,000, and there are other sponsorship opportunities available. To learn more, contact Sheri Moore at shmoore@smu.edu or 214.768.9113 2022 Meetings Meeting Dates: March 3, Thursday - Campus - 5-7PM – Roxann Griffin, Department of Labor – Advancing Women in the Workforce: Trends, Insights, and Recommendations - Invite coming this week March 29, Tuesday – CONFERENCE – Campus – 9am – 3pm Keynote: John Coyle, Design Thinking Author and US Olympian – Applying Design Thinking to current HR Challenges May 19, 2022 – Offsite – Lunch Program (DRC Economic and Employer Update) Economy in Brief: Indicators for the Dallas Region + Tools and Trends for Attracting Talent in the Dallas Region. Guest Speakers: Eric Griffin & Jessica Heer Dallas Regional Chamber. August 25, 2022 – Offsite 5-7PM November 10, 2022 – Campus 5-7PM Holiday Event – December 1st – Luncheon 12-1:30 Offsite Programming Format - All programming will be in person for 2022 with the possibility a one virtual event as topics arise. Annual Conference 2022 Conference: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 HR by Design (Thinking) A preliminary schedule is below: 9:30 am CT Kickoff and Introductions – Marcus Butts 9:30 - 10:30 John Coyle – Design for Strengths 10:30 - 12:00 Ideation workshop 12:00 - 1:00 Lunch Break 1:00 - 1:45 Panel Discussion – Design Thinking Applied – Case Studies 1:45 - 2:00 Short Break 2:00 - 2:45 Jeff Strese (TBD) – How do CHRO's reset their own strengths? 2:45 - 3:15 Let's Take This Deeper - Networking, Breakouts, and Guided Discussion 3:15 - 3:30 Wrap Up, Evaluations, and Upcoming Sessions This event will be held at Collins Center. Contact Sheri Moore at 214.768.9113 or shmoore@smu.edu for more information. Past Speakers Jennifer Moss (author of The Burnout Epidemic-The Rise of Chronic Stress and How We Can Fix It) keynote speaker and workshop, David Salyers (author, Remarkable, former CMO, Chik-Fil-A), Jerry Magar (People Systems Consulting), David Horsager, (CEO, Trust Edge Leadership Institute), Harolyn Watts (Assistant VP, Corporate Diversity/ HR, State Farm), Mike Ullman (CEO, JCPenney), Bill Blase (formerly SVP, AT&T), Pam Patsley (CEO, MoneyGram), Shawn Achor (author on positive psychology and happiness), Richard Boyatzis (Case Western Reserve, emotional intelligence), Dave Ulrich (University of Michigan), Robert Moran (Author of Managing Cultural Differences), Raj Sisodia (author of Firms of Endearment, and leader in Conscious Capitalism) Current Members Alkami American Airlines Andrews Distributing Baylor Scott & White Health Caliber Collision CECO Environmental Crestron Electronics Children’s Health Cook Children’s Dallas Mavericks DFW International Airport Energy Transfer Ericsson EY Federal Reserve Bank G6 Hospitality Haynes and Boone IMO Keurig Dr. Pepper Lennox International McKesson Methanex Paravida Solutions PepsiCo PlainsCapital Bank Raytheon Company Ryan LLC Sabre SGWS Tenet Health Texas Instruments Transplace US Anesthesia Partners Veritex Bank 7-Eleven, Inc. Next Steps - Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Request More Information SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter