Print and Mail Services Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu Fall 2021 FAQs Getting Started Submenu Submit an Order/Request a Quote How to Send a File Order Business Cards Large Format Printing & Student Academic Posters See Our Portfolio Glossary of Terms Print Resources Submenu Submit an Order/Request a Quote How to Send a File Large Format Printing & Student Academic Posters Design Services Submenu Submit an Order/Request a Quote Order Business Cards See Our Portfolio Packages & Mail Submenu Campus & Student Mail Addressing Guidelines Package Lockers Package Collection Instructions Direct Mail Submenu Mail Lists/List Process Requirements Mail Piece Review & Tips Direct Mail Addressing Guidelines Portfolio Submenu Design Gallery Signage & Large Format Printing Gallery Promotional Item Gallery About Us Submenu Staff List Organizational Chart Sustainability FAQs Undergrad Mailbox Search Business Cards Metering Request Form Contact Us Log in Search Search Home Packages & Mail For Students, Faculty & Staff Section Menu Campus & Student Mail Addressing Guidelines Package Lockers Package Collection Instructions Packages & Mail For Students, Faculty & Staff Packages & Mail For Students, Faculty & Staff SAFETY & CONFIDENTIALITY COME FIRST! Mail Services collects and distributes campus inter-departmental and U.S. Post Office mail to faculty, staff and students. The campus mail system is intended for Princeton University business and support of the campus community. All mail is delivered to designated locations within departments and is distributed and collected each day by mail couriers assigned to specific campus routes. Delivery and collection times vary per location. For campus mail requirements and direct mail project questions, please contact William Hallahan, wjh2@princeton.edu or 609.258.3115 Important details regarding mail and package delivery to students, faculty, and staff: 08544 zip code addresses: All campus mail, all postal mail, and all packages are routed thru Princeton University Mail Services, and will therefore be delivered by our department. 08540 and 08542 zip code addresses: These locations are not within the core Princeton University campus; therefore, Princeton University Mail Services will deliver all of the campus mail, plus whatever portion of postal mail and packages are routed thru us from external vendors. The portion of postal mail and packages that we do not receive will be delivered directly to these addresses by the external vendors. Undergraduate Student Mail & Packages To update your address please go directly to Tiger Hub at https://registrar.princeton.edu/tigerhub/. Mail Forwarding & Package Services: Over summer break we will forward 1st Class & Priority mail over the summer break starting on the last day of the spring semester and stop forwarding 2 weeks prior to freshmen move in. Students who stay on campus and have a summer housing contract will continue to receive mail. If you do not have a summer housing contract but wish to continue to receive mail services please email us at mailsvc@princeton.edu. Seniors: Prior to graduation please be sure to update your address with your recurring senders such as, your bank, magazines, Amazon and family & friends. We will only forward First Class & Priority mail until January 1 of the upcoming year. After January 1 we will return it to sender. Mail Services will forward all mail to the address on file. If you have any questions please email us at mailsvc@princeton.edu. The mail room is located in Frist 106 and the package room is in Frist 110. Packages If you have a package in the Frist package room after move out, you have 2 options that will occur for that package. It will either be forwarded to you or it will be returned to sender. If you would like the package sent to you, please follow the instructions below: Go to USPS Click and Ship, UPS or FedEx website, create an account, enter all pertinent data, pay for shipping fees, generate a shipping label for the package and forward the PDF of the shipping label to mailsvc@princeton.edu to which we will then apply to the package, and hand off to the carrier correct carrier. We must receive the label from your Princeton University email account or we will not be able to apply to the package. Tracking Notifications When you receive notifications from your purchasing agents it will likely indicate “delivered” or “delivered to agent”. This notification does not necessarily mean that mail services has your package in our possession. As a reminder, please do not pick up a package until you receive an email from Mail Services and the tracking says “recipient notified by agent." This means your package is now available at the Frist Package Room & Lockers for pick up. “delivered to agent”: Package arrived at delivery post office, has been scanned by USPS and is available for pick up by agent (Mail Services is the agent) “received by agent”: Mail services has received the package from the USPS and scanned it into our system “recipient notified by agent”: Mail services sends an email notification to you that the package is available for pick up “delivered to recipient by agent”: The student has picked up the package from mail services, final scan sent to USPS web site. Metered Domestic & International Mail The department of Mail Services will conveniently meter and send outgoing US mail for departments. We can also handle your International mail, partnering with our international mail vendor, Asendia. To utilize the department of Mail Services for your Domestic & International mail simply complete the Online Metering Request Form select the Domestic or International tab and follow the instructions provided. Please note: When entering a Princeton Prime Chartstring, the Account Code is not necessary to complete the metering request. Mail Services will pick up the outgoing mail during the department's normal mail delivery, or special arrangements can be made by calling Mail Services at 609.258.4317. A convenient way for departments to send outgoing metered mail with Mail Services! The Online Meter Request Form offers benefits and features such as: CAS Login Logging in with your Princeton NetID and password pre-populates the form with your contact information, home department, and date. Store multiple Princeton Prime Chartstrings Frequently used chartstrings may be stored in your profile and conveniently accessed via drop-down menu. Instant Chartstring Validation The system automatically checks to ensure that a valid chartstring has been entered. An alert will appear if the chartstring is invalid. Batch Printing Complete and print up to three forms at a time and easily switch between domestic and international mail requests. Faster Request Processing Chart strings are converted into printed barcodes that Mail Services can scan to accurately process requests quickly and efficiently. Online Metering Request Form Footer STUDENT PACKAGE AND MAIL LOCATION Frist Campus Center Princeton, NJ 08544 mailsvc@princeton.edu Mail: 609.258.1304 Packages: 609.258.1352 FORRESTAL LOCATION 701 Forrestal Road Forrestal Campus Princeton, NJ 08540 printing@princeton.edu 609.258.3493 ADMINISTRATIVE PACKAGE AND MAIL LOCATION 701 Forrestal Road Forrestal Campus Princeton, NJ 08540 mailsvc@princeton.edu University Mail and Packages: 609.258.3444 Direct(Bulk) Mailings: 609.258.3115 CAMPUS LOCATION Digital Print Center 201 Nassau Street Princeton, NJ 08540 digitalprintcenter@ princeton.edu 609.258.5560 Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University