Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Photo: Toll Authority of Jamaica QUICK Q&A Stephen R.P. Edwards '02 The managing director of highways in Jamaica shares how he navigates the role. By Christine Balquist Summer 2022 print mail What does your job entail? We’re responsible for building, maintaining, and operating Jamaica’s highways. Part of the process is acquiring land for development of the highway, and we have to sometimes acquire private property, and that has a whole lot of issues around it. We’re also managing the financial aspect. These are very, very big projects, so a lot of them, by law, have to go out to international bidding. There are long-term plans to expand the highway network across Jamaica, which will require the continuous expansion of the country’s technical and institutional capacity. What is most rewarding about your work? Seeing that the work you’re doing is really making an impact on people’s lives locally. Because Jamaica is a developing country, this type of capital expenditure on infrastructure really drives the economy. It opens up areas for development, it generates a lot of jobs, and it really affects the country’s gross domestic product. What is your favorite road to drive on? The North-South Highway links the capital of Jamaica—Kingston—to a major town called Ocho Rios. There’s all this land along the way that is ripe for development, but in addition, the scenery is just picturesque. It’s like a postcard, especially on a sunny day. More Stories Nicholas Burns Is the New Ambassador to China The BC alum tweeted that he’s looking forward to doing “vital work for our country.” Guy Beiner The new Sullivan Chair in Irish Studies on how we remember our past, and why it matters. A One-Man Cast of Thousands An actor who’s appeared in countless hit movies and TV shows, P.J. Byrne’s star is on the rise. "Who Am I Outside of Volleyball?" Her father left her an athletic legacy, but Jewel Strawberry found her passion off the court. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College