Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Equal Opportunity Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) About EOS Staff Anti-Discrimination Anti-Discrimination Policy Anti-Discrimination Coordinators Anti-Discrimination Resources Anti-Discrimination FAQs Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Sexual Misconduct Policy Consensual Relationship Policy Title IX Coordinators Title IX Resources SB 212 ADA/Section 504 Policies: Student & Employee Policy for Students Policy for Employees ADA Coordinators ADA Resources ADA FAQs EIR Accessibility EIRA Policy EIRA Coordinators EIRA Resources Blackboard Ally Accessibility Terms Defined Self-Guided Learning Access University Accessibility Options EIRA FAQs EIRA Regulations Workforce Diversity Workforce Diversity Policy Workforce Diversity Resources Workforce Diversity FAQs Contact Us UH Home Equal Opportunity Services Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) Quick Exit COVID-19 Update The Office of Equal Opportunity Services (EOS) recognizes that the global outbreak of COVID-19 may impact our students, staff, and faculty in a variety of ways, and we are here to support you. The EOS office is open Monday-Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. EOS will continue to offer virtual appointments for your convenience and safety. Mandatory reporting obligations under Senate Bill 212 remain in effect for all UH employees. To report an incident of discrimination or sexual misconduct, please complete the online Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Report Form. You may also submit reports of discrimination and sexual misconduct anonymously through the Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline. If you are a party to an ongoing investigation, please do not hesitate to contact your EOS investigator by phone or email with any questions. Resources continue to be available to our community members. In compliance with federal, state, and local directives, in-person support services may be suspended temporarily out of concern for the safety and well-being of our community. Please visit Title IX Sexual Misconduct Resources to learn more about available resources. For more information about UH's response to COVID-19, please check the website regularly. About EOS Welcome to the Office of Equal Opportunites Services (EOS). We support UH's values by enforcing our Anti-Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Policies, in addition to facilitating reasonable workplace accommodations, assisting campus partners in recruiting a diverse workforce, and providing tools and resources to ensure all UH information and services are accessible to our community members. At UH, we all benefit from being members of one of the most diverse university communities in the country, and we strive to maintain and continuously strengthen an inclusive environment in which all voices feel heard and valued. Please explore our website to learn more about rights and resources available to members of the UH community. Make a Report Request an Accommodation Request a Training Get Involved Anti-Discrimination Policy Sexual Misconduct Policy ADA Policy Diversity Recruitment Policy Equal Opportunity Services 4367 Cougar Village Drive Bldg 526 Houston, TX 77204 713.743.8835 eos@uh.edu A-Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers at UH Directory Emergency Information Human Resources Libraries Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Title IX - Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies