Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Loan Programs LOAN PROGRAMS Education loans are only one of the many possible sources of funding to cover the cost of your Tuck education. Eligibility varies for each of these loan programs as do rates, terms of repayment, and annual/aggregate loan maximums. International students can maximize their options by identifying a U.S. cosigner with positive credit history. Tuck adheres to the Code of Conduct policy as established by the Higher Education Opportunity Act. FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN PROGRAMS Learn more about federal direct loan programs from the U.S. Department of Education. Direct Unsubsidized Loan Graduate students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents qualify for $20,500 per academic year. The U.S. Department of Education is your lender. The interest rate is 6.54% effective July 1, 2022 – June 30, 2023. Congress sets interest rates on federal loans each year. The interest rate becomes fixed for the life of the loan. Interest accrues and capitalizes upon repayment. There is a 1.057 percent loan origination fee deducted from the principal of the loan at the time of disbursement. Repayment begins six months after graduation. The standard repayment period is 10 years; however, you could have up to 25-years to repay your loan depending upon the repayment plan that you choose. Direct Graduate Plus Loan Graduate students who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents may qualify for up to the cost of attendance as determined by the school less other financial assistance. You must first apply for your maximum loan eligibility of the Direct Unsubsidized loan before the PLUS can be borrowed. The applicant must not have an adverse credit history. This loan has a fixed interest rate of 7.54% effective July 1, 2022 – June 30, 2023. Congress sets interest rates on federal loans each year. The interest rate becomes fixed for the life of the loan. Interest accrues and capitalizes upon repayment. There is a 4.228 percent origination fee deducted from the principal of the loan at the time of disbursement. Repayment begins six months after graduation. The standard repayment period is ten years; however, you could have up to 25 years to repay your loan depending upon the repayment plan that you choose. INSTITUTIONAL LOANS Dartmouth Educational Loan Fund (DELF) Loans The Dartmouth Educational Loan Fund is made available by the Trustees of Dartmouth College. The rate to new borrowers is currently 6.95%. The interest is set each year and becomes fixed for the life of the loan. Interest accrues and capitalizes upon repayment. The maximum repayment term is 10 years. Eligible students are U.S. citizens, permanent residents of the U.S. and foreign nationals. To qualify for a DELF loan, the student must be enrolled at least half-time and making satisfactory academic progress towards the degree. Depending on financial need, students may borrow up to $65,000 annually from this source over the two years of their MBA education. Financial need is determined by the cost of attendance less estimated family contribution and scholarship. Tuck 5 Percent Loans and Tuck Educational Loan Fund (TELF) These endowed loan funds are made possible through the generosity of many friends and alums of the school. U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and international citizens with demonstrated financial need are eligible and will be considered as part of the financial aid process. These loans are interest-free while the student is enrolled at Tuck and five percent during the repayment period. There is a three-month grace period prior to repayment. Custom International Loan Tuck offers funding options for international citizens attending our MBA program. The program does not require a U.S. co-signer and offers competitive terms. A student is eligible to borrow up to 80 percent of the cost of attendance annually as determined by a needs analysis using the information provided on the international financial aid application. Our goal in providing the program is to supplement the student’s other financial resources. International students should also investigate all sources of funding from within their home country including government and private scholarships and loans. International students may also be eligible for other types of loans if they have a U.S. cosigner with positive credit history. PRIVATE EDUCATION LOANS U.S based Private Education Loans are available to U.S. citizens and permanent residents who have positive credit history, and to international students with a creditworthy U.S. cosigner. Other private education loan options may be available in non-U.S. countries. If you decide to pursue a private loan, you must apply directly through the lender. The maximum loan amount you may be eligible to borrow is the cost of attendance less other financial aid received. Each loan requires that Tuck certify the approved loan amount. Loans terms, interest rates, and aggregate lending limits will vary by lender. Tuck does not have preferred arrangements with any private education lenders. Under federal law, you have the right to borrow from the lender of your choice. To view a comprehensive list of lenders used by Tuck students, visit www.elmselect.com. Select Dartmouth College > MBA. All rates and terms are subject to change without notice. Comparing Federal vs. Private Loans Federal Private Loan Amount Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan = $20,500 Federal Graduate PLUS Loan = Up to the cost of education less other aid. Varies by lender but typically up to the cost of education less other aid. Aggregate Borrowing Limit Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan = $138,500 Federal Graduate PLUS Loan = No aggregate limit Varies by lender Fees Yes Many private education lenders do not charge fees. Interest Rate Fixed Offer a variety of loan options that can be variable or fixed. Incentives 0.25% interest rate deduction for automatic debit. Varies by lender Subsidized N/A N/A Credit Approval Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan = N/A Federal Graduate PLUS Loan = Applicant cannot have adverse credit history. Based on established credit history and/or credit score. Debt to Income Ratio N/A Varies by lender Cosigner/Endorser Only required for Federal Graduate PLUS loan if borrower has adverse credit history May be required for adverse credit history. Optional to be considered for lower interest rate. Payment Options Payments begin after the grace period has concluded. Depending upon your lender, you may be required to make payments while in school. Repayment Plans There are several repayment plans including options to tie your monthly payment to your income Varies by lender Grace Period 6-months after graduation Varies by lender Prepayment Penalty There is no pre-payment penalty Typically, no penalty but you will want to check with your lender. Loan Forgiveness You may be eligible to have some of your loan forgiven if you work in public service. It is unlikely that private lenders will offer loan forgiveness. Repayment Curious how much you will owe after graduation? Below is the estimated monthly repayment for the various loans available to graduate students based on the maximum loan eligibility. Grad PLUS and private educational loans are based upon assumption student is borrowing the full Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan. Amount Borrowed Interest Fee Origination Fee 10 yr Repayment 15 yr Repayment 25 yr Repayment Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans $20,500 5.28% 1.057% $220 $165 $123 Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loans $92,810 6.28% 4.228% $1,043 $797 $614 Private Loans* $92,810 7.25% 0.00% $1,090 $847 n/a Tuck 5% $10,000 5.00% 0.00% $106 n/a n/a Amounts are based on one academic year. If you borrow a similar amount while in your second year of enrollment, you can assume that, at a minimum, the total monthly payment will double since the interest, if applicable, continues to accrue. *Interest rate and origination fee for private loans will vary by lender. Consolidation and Refinance Consolidation allows a borrower to consolidate multiple loans into one loan for ease of payment. Federal student borrowers can consolidate their federal loans into one loan. The interest rate now becomes a weighted average of all the loans rounded up to the nearest one-eighth of one percent. Student loan refinancing allows the borrower to take out a new loan to pay off the existing loans. This is done through a private student loan lender. Some lenders will allow borrowers to include both federal and private education loans, typically resulting in a lower interest rate. Types of Loans Borrowed Domestic Loan Borrowers Percent Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan only 20% Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan and Federal Graduate PLUS Loan 17% Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan and Private Education Loan 26% Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan and Dartmouth Education Loan (DELC) 18% Private Education Loan only 10% Dartmouth Education Loan only 1% Tuck subsidized Loan in addition to loans above 35% Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Tuition and Costs Scholarships and Fellowships Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Applying to Tuck Finance Your Degree Home Admissions Home 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy