Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Request Info Receive more information on what Xavier University has to offer. Undergraduate Xavier prepares students for a meaningful life of work, service and personal fufillment. Our mission is a world changed for the better. Get more information about our 90+ undergraduate majors and 60+ minors and see what it's like to be a student at Xavier. Request Information Graduate Xavier's 40+ world-class graduate programs cover a wide variety of disciplines, including health, business and education. Programs are available both online and in person. Join a network of industry leaders in the region, across the country, and around the world equipped to make a difference. Request Information Transfer Students At Xavier, you'll be treated as an individual, never a number. We'll work with you one-on-one to make the most of your transfer credits and experiences. Request Information Adult Undergraduate (APEX) No matter where you are in your path toward a degree, our Adult and Professional Education at Xavier (APEX) program will partner with you to finish the degree you began working on years ago-or get started on the degree you've always wanted. Request Information Veterans At Xavier University, we take pride in serving our veterans, just as you took pride in serving our country. Request Information International International Going to Xavier means being part of a community that celebrates all cultures and faiths. With just under 7,000 students and a 12:1 student to faculty ratio, you'll get the personal attention you need to succeed. Request Information Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram