Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Admissions FAQs Please see below for answers to frequently asked questions. Click on the links below to jump to a specific section or click on individual questions to see each response. Admissions and COVID-19 GMAT/GRE Transcripts Letters of Reference Application Process/Application Specifics Waitlist International Applicants Interviews Admissions and COVID-19 Where can I get information on Tuck/Dartmouth’s COVID-19 policies? COVID-19 updates for Tuck are available here. COVID-19 updates for Dartmouth are available here. Are campus visits possible? We are excited to connect with you and help you get to know our vibrant community through a variety of virtual events. While at this time we are not scheduling on campus visits, there are numerous ways to engage with Tuck. Hear from a member of the Tuck Admissions team and a panel of alumni at an Information Session, connect with a member of the admissions committee and fellow applicants in a small-scale Conversation, or speak directly with a student at an Ambassador Coffee Chat. Tour our campus virtually, and see the physical beauty of Tuck and the Upper Valley on our YouTube channel. And, learn about the Tuck experience through our student and alumni stories or reach out directly to our Tuck Student Ambassadors. ^ top GMAT/GRE Does Tuck prefer the GMAT or the GRE? Tuck accepts both the GMAT and the GRE, and we do not prefer one test over the other. If you are considering which test to take, we suggest trying practice exams of each and taking whichever test you think best reflects your abilities. Does Tuck waive the GMAT/GRE test requirement? No, we do not waive the GMAT/GRE requirement for any applicants. Regardless of educational or professional experience, all applicants must submit valid test scores. Does Tuck accept the Online/At Home versions of the GMAT/GRE? Yes, we do! I have taken the GMAT and/or GRE several times. Which score does the admissions committee consider? If you have taken the test(s) multiple times, please report all valid scores in the past five years. We will consider your highest total score and highest sub-scores. We will not, however, combine scores from different tests to create a new total score. When do I need to take the GMAT or GRE? We require that you submit your valid self-reported GMAT or GRE scores at the time of application, so you should plan to take the test in enough time to receive a score to self-report. Please note that you do not need to submit an official GMAT or GRE score with your application. This step is required only for admitted students. Test scores an applicant self-reports must be valid as of the date they apply. If your test score(s) will expire prior to August 2022 you must release your official score report(s) to Tuck prior to submitting your application. May I take and submit a new GMAT/GRE score after the deadline? Will it still be considered? While we do not guarantee consideration of scores sent after the application deadline, we may be able to consider them if review of your application is still in progress. Note that we cannot confirm, once review has started, whether or not we have reviewed a specific application. Should I take and submit scores for both the GMAT and GRE? We only require that you take one exam, either the GMAT or the GRE, and we do not prefer one test over the other. Taking and submitting the results for both tests is up to you. Submitting both test results does not adversely or positively affect your candidacy. If you have taken both tests and wish to include them in your application you must self-report both scores on the application. Am I eligible for your program based on my GMAT score and/or GPA? All candidates with a bachelor's degree from an accredited undergraduate institution are encouraged to apply to Tuck. There are no minimum GMAT, GRE, or GPA scores required. Refer to our class profile to see the statistics regarding last year's incoming class. However, we encourage you to consider the ranges, not just the averages, when assessing your candidacy. How much does the GMAT or GRE score count? Tuck seeks applicants who possess outstanding academic abilities. The GMAT or GRE score is just one of the many criteria we consider. When evaluating a candidate's preparation for the coursework at Tuck, we consider the following: prior academic performance, the results of the GMAT or GRE, results of an English Language Proficiency test (if applicable), the nature of past coursework, and the nature of the applicant's professional experience. Do you have a cut-off score for the GMAT or GRE? Tuck does not have a minimum GMAT or GRE score requirement—admitted students have a range of scores. But if you feel that your GMAT or GRE score is not reflective of your academic aptitude, we encourage you to take the exam again in an effort to improve your score. ^ top Transcripts Do I have to have a business background to apply to Tuck? No. Tuck seeks qualified applicants from all backgrounds, including those who do not have traditional business experience. If you do not have previous exposure to quantitative concepts, you may take classes in the following areas to help prepare for the rigors of Tuck's curriculum: microeconomics, financial accounting, statistics, finance, and Excel. Do I need to submit transcripts from every college or university I have attended? You will be required to scan and upload a copy of the academic transcript(s) issued by the institution(s) from which you obtained your undergraduate (bachelor’s or first) degree; any advanced/graduate degrees; and any transfer institutions. If your transcript is not in English, you must scan and upload a copy of it that has been translated into English. If you attended any other institutions, e.g. study-abroad programs, post-graduate non-degree coursework, etc., you do not need to upload your transcripts, however, you will be asked to provide details (institution, term/year, course title, and grade) in the application. Do you convert GPAs? We are well versed in the different academic paths our candidates take. Because of this, we calibrate and assess that you have challenged yourself and performed well relative to expectations in your academic environment. We therefore will not convert your GPA to a 4.0 scale, nor should you. Please report your GPA using the scale employed by the degree granting university. ^ top Letters of Reference How many references may I submit? You must submit two Letters of Reference (LORs). Reapplicants in the previous year need to submit only one new LOR from a recommender who did not write to Tuck on your behalf last year. We discourage you from submitting additional letters as they are not likely to enhance our evaluation of your candidacy. Who should I select to write my letters of reference? Request Letters of Reference (LORs) from two people who can comment on your qualifications for Tuck’s admissions criteria. The best letters come from references who can demonstrate that you are smart, accomplished, aware, and encouraging. If possible, your current direct supervisor should write one of your LORs. You will be asked to provide a brief explanation if you cannot provide an LOR from a direct supervisor. LORs from professors who did not supervise professional work, from family members, or from personal acquaintances do not enhance your candidacy. Your reference must be the sole author of your LOR. Drafting, writing, translating, or submitting your own reference, even if asked to do so by your reference, violates Tuck’s admissions policies and Academic Honor Principle. You are responsible for informing your references of this policy. References who cannot write in English may write in a native language and have the LOR translated by an outside translation service. Do not translate the LOR into English for your reference. You are responsible for notifying your references of your application deadline and ensuring your LORs are submitted on time. We review your application only if both LORs are received by your application deadline. Otherwise, we will move your application to the next admission round. If you would like to make changes to your list of references, please contact us at Tuck.Admissions@tuck.dartmouth.edu. ^ top Application Process/Application Specifics May I transfer to Tuck after completing a year at another school? No. An essential part of our MBA program is the two-year experience of being a member of the Tuck community. It is this shared experience that makes the Tuck MBA program unique. The Tuck experience is unique not only in its curricular aspects, but also by the relationships that students build with their peers, the faculty, and the administrators. Only a full two years will allow our students to experience and fully appreciate this distinctly immersive learning environment. I hold a three-year bachelor's degree. Is that acceptable for admission to Tuck? Yes, we will give equal consideration for admission to applicants with three year bachelor’s degrees. Do I need to have a bachelor’s degree to be considered for admission? While we do not require that candidates hold a bachelor’s degree in order to be considered for admission, we do give very, very strong preference to applicants who have earned a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent, and an offer of admission to an applicant without a bachelor’s degree will be extraordinarily rare. However, a lack of a bachelor’s degree is not automatically disqualifying for candidates who can otherwise demonstrate unusual and extraordinary proficiency across our four criteria. May I apply to Tuck if I already hold an MBA from another school or country? We do not typically admit applicants who have already earned an MBA. If you hold a similar graduate degree that is not an MBA, use the optional essay to explain why you need an MBA in addition to your prior degree. We consider the Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) from Indian universities to be the equivalent of an MBA and typically do not admit applicants who have already earned this degree. Does my age or X number of years of experience preclude me from being considered for admission? Our admission review process is age blind, and your age or years of experience will not impact your application in any way. May I apply to Tuck directly and also via the Consortium? No. The admissions committee will consider only one application per candidate per year. Do I need to have full-time work experience to apply? Tuck does not often offer admission to applicants with less than two years of professional work experience. On average, Tuck students have five years of full-time work experience before enrolling at Tuck. Given the broad range of experience in each class, it is the quality, not the quantity, of an applicant's experience that is relevant in the evaluation process. Is it better to apply in an early round or a later round? Apply as early as you are ready. The admissions committee will admit as many well-qualified applicants as possible in early rounds. However, it is important not to rush your application. We encourage you to take the time necessary to submit a thoughtful, well-prepared application. Regardless of the round in which your application has been submitted, the admissions committee will give full and fair consideration to your candidacy. We recommend submitting your completed application a day or two prior to the published deadline, which may help to alleviate the anxiety that may accompany last-minute submissions. Does Tuck offer a pre-qualification process? No. We are not able to assess qualifications until we know more about you through the application process. Do you offer spring entry? No. Students may begin the Tuck MBA program only in the summer term. Tuck offers only a full-time, two-year program. Does Tuck offer application fee waivers? We understand that we live in a dynamic global economy and the process of applying to business school can be a financial challenge. Application fee waivers may be available for those facing a financial burden and are granted on a case-by-case basis. If you would like to request a waiver of the application fee, please submit a copy of your resume, salary information, and a brief explanation as to why you are making this request to Tuck.Admissions@tuck.dartmouth.edu. I submitted my application earlier than the deadline. Will I receive a decision sooner? Regardless of when you submit your application, all decisions for the Round in which you applied will be released on the same day, and they are not released on a rolling basis. Once the submission deadline has passed and application reading has begun, we cannot update you on the status of your application or where it is in the process. ^ top Waitlist How many applicants are placed on the waitlist? The size of our waitlist varies from year to year. In recent years, we have extended waitlist offers to more than 100 candidates. This size fluctuates as candidates are admitted from the waitlist, update us about their plans for the upcoming year, or decide to remove themselves from consideration. How many applicants were offered admission from the waitlist in the past few years? The number of applicants admitted from the waitlist varies from year to year and depends on the applicant pool, enrollment from previous rounds, and the quality of applications from later rounds. Our waitlist offer means that we consider you a candidate for admission to Tuck in an upcoming round. How long do candidates typically remain on the waitlist? The admissions committee will re-review your candidacy in each subsequent application round, at the end of which you may be offered admission, your waitlist status may be extended, or you may be released and encouraged to reapply next year. Offers of admission to waitlisted candidates may also be extended on a rolling basis, and as late as August. Will I receive feedback on my application while I am on the waitlist? We provide feedback to all candidates who accept our waitlist offer. We will reach out to you with suggestions on how to strengthen your candidacy or ask you to provide additional information if we had any unanswered questions while reading your application. Following our suggestions will not guarantee admission, but it may strengthen your candidacy in a competitive pool. Do I need to confirm my desire to remain in consideration for admission? Yes! In your decision letter you will receive detailed instructions on how to accept your waitlist offer. You will need to follow those instructions to secure your spot on the waitlist. If your waitlist status is extended in a subsequent round, you will need to re-affirm that you wish to remain on the waitlist. All forms must be submitted by the date communicated to you in the waitlist offer letter. How can I submit an update/updates to my application? We ask that you submit significant updates for your candidacy by accessing your Status Page and navigating to the Waitlist Update Portal. Once you log into the portal you will be able to submit additional information and/or materials. Your updates are automatically added to your application. If you have new GMAT or GRE scores, please also email them to the Tuck Admissions account at Tuck.Admissions@tuck.dartmouth.edu. Will I receive communication from the admissions committee while I am on the waitlist? We provide feedback to all candidates who accept our waitlist offer. We will reach out to you with suggestions on how to strengthen your candidacy or ask you to provide additional information if we had any unanswered questions while reading your application. While no other formal communication is planned, we will continue to review your candidacy in each subsequent round. We welcome hearing from you if and when you have updates to your candidacy. Will I be able to re-interview while on the waitlist? We may extend committee-initiated interview invitations to individual candidates, asking them to re-interview. Invitations to interview will be extended on a case-by-case basis. Candidates may not self-initiate an additional interview. What is the process for applying for financial aid if I am waitlisted? Our financial aid colleagues will work individually with all candidates who are admitted from the waitlist. There is no required action to take before then. If you have additional questions, please write to the Tuck Financial Aid Office at tuck.financial.aid@dartmouth.edu. Does Tuck rank the waitlist? Tuck does not rank candidates on the waitlist. We will review your application in each subsequent round relative to the larger applicant pool. ^ top International Applicants What should international applicants keep in mind regarding student visas and immigration status? Unless otherwise specified, all international Tuck students will be sponsored for F-1 student visas. Some students may be sponsored for J-1 student visas, such as students who will be sponsored by their employer. Dartmouth’s Office of Visa and Immigration Services (OVIS) is the definitive resource for everything international applicants need to know regarding preparing for study at Tuck. The office provides support services to guide admitted students through the visa process as well as up to date information regarding important immigration news and White House Executive Orders. As uncertainty regarding US immigration persists, what should international applicants keep in mind when applying to Tuck? We at Tuck affirm both our unwavering support of our international students and our commitment to global engagement. Nearly 40% of Tuck students are international students, and their diversity of experiences, ideas, and dreams enrich learning and the lives of their classmates in countless ways. Tuck remains committed to maintaining a talented, diverse, and globally-engaged student body no matter the current policies on immigration. We will stay up to date on developments that could impact our international applicants and the broader Tuck community. More information is available through Dartmouth's Office of Visa and Immigration Services. Do I need to take the IELTS Academic, PTE Academic, or TOEFL iBT exams? Tuck accepts the IELTS (International English Language Test) Academic, PTE Academic (Pearson Test of English Academic), and the TOEFL® (Test of English as a Foreign Language) iBT to demonstrate English proficiency. All nonnative English speakers must self-report results (scores and percentiles, if applicable) from either the IELTS Academic, PTE Academic, or the TOEFL iBT®. This requirement is waived for applicants who have recently lived for at least three years in an English-speaking country or who received a degree from an institution where instruction is in English. It is not necessary to seek our pre-approval or submit documentation to prove eligibility for this waiver, and you may indicate this with the check box in the education section of your application. Results must not be more than two years old. We do accept the Online/At Home versions of these exams. Visit www.ielts.org for information on registering for the IELTS Academic and use Dartmouth College Tuck School of Business to send your scores to us. Visit www.pearsonpte.com for information on registering for the PTE Academic. Visit www.ets.org/toefl for information on registering for the TOEFL iBT®, and use code 3351 to send your scores to us. Is there an optimal application round for international candidates? International applicants may apply in any round. U.S. visa eligibility forms will be made available to all accepted international students after they have paid the enrollment deposit. Verification of financial support is required for all enrolling international students. Tuck provides assistance in facilitating the U.S. visa process through the Dartmouth Office of Visa and Immigration Services (OVIS). Please visit Dartmouth's Office of Visa and Immigration Services for further details. What if I am an international applicant wishing to connect with students? Tuck’s Ambassadors help international applicants easily connect with current students. We encourage you to reach out to an Ambassador. ^ top Interviews What is a guaranteed interview? All Round 1 applicants who submit their complete application, including Letters of Reference, by September 1, 20210, (or October 1, 20210 if applying to Tuck through the Consortium), and all Round 2/Round 2 Consortium applicants who submit their complete application by December 1, 2021, will be guaranteed an interview. Once Tuck receives your complete application you will receive a sign-up link to select the date and time for your virtual interview. We will review your application after you have scheduled and completed your interview. For applicants who are not able to apply by the early deadlines, interviews are offered by invitation only. We will review your application and invite you to interview if we believe it will help us learn more about how you demonstrate our admissions criteria. When will I be invited to interview? We send interview invitations on a rolling basis throughout the evaluation period. While we send most invitations at least 1-2 weeks before releasing admissions decisions, it is possible to be invited days prior to the decision notification date. How will my interview be scheduled? We will send you a link to the interview schedule. You will choose a day and time that works with your availability. All interviews will be conducted virtually. Can I update my resume after I register for an interview? Once you register for an interview time you will receive a confirmation email which includes a link to update your registration. You may update your resume via that link up until one week before the interview date. Who will my interviewer be? Interviews are scheduled primarily with Tuck Admissions Associates (second-year students) and occasionally with members of the admissions committee. The name and email address of your interviewer will be provided to you 48 hours prior to your interview. What information will my interviewer have about me? Your interview will be a blind interview, meaning your interviewer will not have access to your application. The only document your interviewer will see is your resume. What questions will I be asked during my interview? We will ask questions that will help us assess your qualifications for our four criteria: smart, accomplished, aware, and encouraging. You can learn more about the questions we ask and how to best prepare for your admissions interview in our blog. How long will the interview last? A typical interview lasts between 30–45 minutes. Is there a dress code for a virtual interview? What should I wear to my interview? We suggest candidates wear business-appropriate attire for interviews. I am a reapplicant. Can I interview again? If you had an interview in a prior year, we will still have it for our evaluation, so we may, or may not, invite you for an additional interview. ^ top Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Admissions Home Return to the Tuck Admissions homepage. Applying to Tuck Guidance as you prepare to apply. Admissions FAQ Have questions? Find answers here. Connect with Our Community Learn more about Tuck by connecting with members of our community. Class Profile Get to know the incoming class at Tuck. Admissions Criteria Tuck students consistently demonstrate four attributes. You’re a strong candidate for admission if you demonstrate them too. Visit and Interview at Tuck Learn more about our interview process and explore our campus virtually. Important Dates Upcoming dates and deadlines. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy