Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics» Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Online Learning Non-Degree & Special Programs Academic Policies Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Research» Faculty and Research Staff Institutes, Centers & Initiatives Department Research Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities University and School Research Resources Innovation, Design & Entrepreneurship» Student Life» Undergraduate Student Life Graduate Student Life Living in New York City Commencement Student Profiles About» Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion People News Columbia Engineering Magazine Strategic Collaborations Get Involved Bulletin Make a Gift Contact Home > About Dean Shih-Fu Chang Dean of Columbia Engineering At A Glance Engineering for Humanity Mission & Vision Supporting the Vision History Plan A Visit Board of Visitors Shih-Fu Chang, Dean of The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and Morris A. and Alma Schapiro Professor of Engineering; and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Shih-Fu Chang is dean of Columbia Engineering, where he leads the education, research, and innovation mission of Columbia Engineering with more than 240 faculty, 1,800 undergraduate students, and 2,700 graduate students. At Columbia Engineering, Dean Chang is responsible for developing cross-disciplinary initiatives and industry collaborations; recruiting top faculty and students; and leading the development and implementation of the school’s strategy for diversity, equity, and inclusion. He has greatly contributed to the growth and advancement of the School, propelling it to be one of the top engineering programs in the nation. He plays a key role in the creation of the School’s guiding vision, Columbia Engineering for Humanity. As one of the most influential experts in multimedia, computer vision and artificial intelligence, his research has led to spinoff companies and licensed technology in multimedia search. The image search tools developed by his group have been used by more than 200 law enforcement agencies in fighting online human trafficking crimes. He has launched AI tools for online disinformation detection and attribution. Dean Chang is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Association for Computing Machinery, and IEEE, and an elected member of Academia Sinica. He receives the Honorary Doctorate from the University of Amsterdam and the Great Teacher Award from the Society of Columbia Graduates. He is the inaugural director for Columbia Center of AI Technology in collaboration with Amazon. He received his BS from National Taiwan University in 1985 and his PhD from the University of California-Berkeley in 1993. 500 W. 120th Street #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Faculty Job Opportunities Make a Gift Contact