Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics & Research Research Incentive Grants Research Incentive Grants Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties RIGs Description Applications Deadlines Application Process Eligibility Amount and Conditions of Awards RIGs Description Research Incentive Grants (RIGs), each worth up to a total of $15,000, including one month's summer salary, are available annually on a competitive basis, with approximately nine intended primarily for untenured junior faculty to assist them in establishing their research program. At least one RIG has been designated to support research consistent with the University's commitment to the service of faith and the promotion of justice. The research project must be initiated during the summer months but the project period may continue through the following academic year. The RIG program is designed to support research carried out directly by the faculty applicant. With rare exceptions, a RIG will not be awarded to the same faculty member more than once in three years. Apply Now For Chairs and Deans Application Deadlines Completed online applications must be submitted by Friday, October 29, 2021. Application Process Applications should be submitted via online form. Please note: If the application is being submitted by two or more faculty jointly, check "Yes" in Item four on the Application. Since most of the reviewers will not have a specialized knowledge of your field of study, you should describe the proposed project in plain English. Once you application has been submitted, your chairperson or dean will receive a notification from the Internal Grants Manager to complete a recommendation form. RIG recipients will be notified of decisions in February 2022. Eligibility All regular full-time tenure-track faculty are eligible for these grants. Amount and Conditions of Awards Each RIG recipient will be awarded up to a total of $15,000, including one month's summer salary. Projects should be designed to start during the summer recess and to be completed by the end of the following academic year. At the end of the academic year, you will be asked to submit a brief report using our online form. Special Provisions An individual can apply for and receive a summer/fall Research Expense Grant, a winter/spring Research Expense Grant, and a Research Incentive Grant in the same year. REGs are awarded biannually and are available competitively to defer the smaller expenses of doing research. RIGs may be used for income; however, any amount that is used as income will be subject to taxation. Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties internalgrants@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College