COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Frequently Asked Questions Section Menu HelpDesk Home Page Call HelpDesk Computer/Software Purchase Resources for Remote Work Student Resources Faculty Resources Frequently Asked Questions Mathematica WSU Help Desk SLA Disposal Procedure WSU Frequently Asked Questions How to request for help Different issues are taken care of in different ways. Here is a list of some issues, and who to contact/what to do when issues arise. Contacting OneStop for technical issues not related to Blackboard will delay service. Below is a list of issues, and what you should do for assistance: Issue What to do Hardware/software issues with university owned PC's, Macs, laptops, printers, etc. Tickets can be created using the following links: Help Me Fix Help Me Setup/Change Help Me Shop Wireless issue Contact the Help Desk at 316-978-4357, option 1, or email helpdesk@wichita.edu Issue accessing Banner Contact the Help Desk at 316-978-4357, option 1, or email helpdesk@wichita.edu Help with an individual form in Banner Contact the Help Desk at 316-978-4357, option 1, or email helpdesk@wichita.edu Issues with Blackboard Contact Blackboard support at (316) 978-4357, and select option 2, or create a ticket or chat here. Email issues Contact the Help Desk. Your question may be answered here. Other issues Contact the Help Desk at 316-978-4357, option 1, or email helpdesk@wichita.edu Telecommunication service request Submit a Telecom ticket here Microsoft Defender Onboarding Fix: Windows/PC Follow these instructions to ensure that Microsoft Defender can be installed onto your Windows machine. Note: these instructions are for Windows/PC only. Microsoft Defender Onboarding Fix Mac Security Setting for Microsoft Defender Information Technology Services (ITS) has migrated the Wichita State antivirus platform to Microsoft Windows Defender. Mac users are encouraged to enable and activate MS Defender on their device. How to Enable & Activate MS Defender Upgrading MacOS Upgrading MacOS How to connect to WSU Secure Connecting to WSU Secure Email How to access my email An email address is generated for new faculty/staff members for their use. If you are unsure if the account exists, or if you need to make changes, contact the HelpDesk at (316) 978-4357, option 1. To access your email from any computer with an internet connection, do the following: Go to http://mail.wichita.edu. In the domain\username box, enter ad\your myWSU ID. In the password box enter your myWSU password. If you have not yet set a password click here for instructions. For assistance with setting up Outlook on your office PC please contact the HelpDesk, or your department's Technical Support Team. How to archive my email Each Exchange user has a size quota. Once they reach that size quota your ability to send email no longer functions. You can request more space, you can delete, or you can archive to save space. Archiving pulls the information off the server, and saves it on a file on your computer's hard drive. If you have old information you are saving, but will not need to frequently access, it is often a good idea to archive that information. You can archive by following these steps: Click on the File tab. Select "Cleanup Tools" in the "Account information" section. Select "Archive". Select the toggle "Archive this folder and subfolders". Select the folder you would like to archive. Set a date in "archive folders older than" area. Click OK. How to set up my phone to receive my work email Setup Email on Mobile Devices How to set up an out of Office message PC Out of office repliies are messages that are sent back to people who send you E-mail messages, generally to let them know that you are out of the office that day. They can be set with a few simple steps: Click on the "File" tab. You should see a page that says "Account Information" at the top Select "Automatic Replies" Click on the toggle next to "Send Automatic replies" If you want to specify a date range, Check the box "Only send during this time range:" and select the start and end time. Enter the reply you want other people at WSU to see in the "Inside my Organization" box If you want to send autoreply messages to people outside of WSU, select the "Outside my Organization" tab. Then Check "Auto-reply to people outside my organization". Enter the message you want people outside of WSU to see when they send messages to you. Click "OK" Mac Out of office repliies are messages that are sent back to people who send you E-mail messages, generally to let them know that you are out of the office that day. They can be set with a few simple steps: Click on "Tools" Select "Out of Office" Enter the message you want people to see when they send you an E-mail If you want to set a date, or a message for people not E-mailing from WSU addresses, click on "more options" if the options aren't already displayed. If you want to set a date range for the autoreply, check "I am out of the office between" and select the correct dates. If you want to send a message to people outside of WSU, check "send replies outside my company to" and select your preferred option. Enter the reply you would like to be sent to people outside of WSU. Click "OK" Web Out of office repliies are messages that are sent back to people who send you E-mail messages, generally to let them know that you are out of the office that day. They can be set with a few simple steps: Click on "Options" This can be located in the upper right hand corner of the page beneath your name. Select "Set Automatic Replies" Click on the toggle next to "Send Automatic replies" If you want to specify a date range, Check the box "Send replies only during this time period:" and select the start and end time. Enter the reply you want other people at WSU to see in the first box If you want to send autoreply messages to people outside of WSU check "Send automatic reply messages to senders outside my organization". Enter the message you want people outside of WSU to see when they send messages to you. Click "Save" (located in the bottom right hand corner) How to Edit a Distribution List 1. Log in to the online Exchange: https://mail.wichita.edu 2. In the upper right, click on the gear and select Options. 3. On the left, under General, select Distribution Groups. 4. On the right, under Distribution Groups I Own is a list of groups you have access to alter. (If you see nothing listed, you are not listed as an owner of the group). Double click on a list to select it. 5. Select Membership on the left. Press + to add a new member. 6. Search by the last name and press the + sign next to the name to add the member to your group. Press Save at the top. 7. To remove members, select their name, and press the - sign 8. Press Save when finished. Outlook for Mac: Reverting to a previous version A recent Outlook for Mac update may have changed the appearance of your Outlook screen, making it appear that your email and calendar appointments have been removed. Not to worry, your emails and appointments are safe, but it can be disconcerting to see a blank Outlook screen. You will need to revert your Outlook application to the previous version for your content to reappear. You may be offered an option to revert via a popup menu, like this: If you do not receieve this prompt, you can always toggle OFF the New Outlook view by going to the Outlook dropdown at the top of the screen and deselecting New Outlook. At the next prompt, select Revert. You may be prompted to log in again, and then your content should reappear. How to clear browser history and use private window Clearing Browser History/Private Window Working remotely due to COVID-19 FAQs on ITS topics when working remotely Setting up your WSU account for the first time New employees will need the following pieces of information: myWSU ID number. Your personal email address. Use the following steps to set up your myWSU account: Go to http://mywsu.wichita.edu. Click "Manage your password". Click "Forgot/Setup Password". Type your personal email in the left box, your myWSU ID in the right box, and click "Email Security Code" once. Check your personal email. Once you receive the security code, type it in the box under Step 3. Click "Submit Security Code". Click "Change Password". If not already completed type a personal (non-Wichita State) email address under "Set up Your Account Recovery Email Address". Choose and answer three security questions. Type your new password in the "New Password" and "Confirm New Password" box, and click "Submit Changes". A success message will confirm the password change. Rules for making passwords: Passwords should be at least 12, and no more than 30 characters long. Passwords may not contain spaces. Passwords must begin with a letter, or a number. They must must include at least three out of four of (1) uppercase (A - Z), (2) lowercase (a - z), (3) digits (0 - 9), and (4) special characters. Passwords may contain one or more characters inside the brackets [@%+/'!#$^?:,(){}[]~`-_.]. DO NOT Do not use your first, last name, or myWSU ID in your password. Do not use more than two numbers/letters in sequence (ex. 1234, abcd). Do not copy and paste the information. Please enter it manually. You can never reuse a password you have used before in myWSU. How to report a suspicious email (Phishing Email) Phishing Email Guidlines for cloud storage and FERPA Cloud Storge & FERPA How to change My password over VPN (Faculty/Staff) Change Password Over VPN Retirement FAQs ITS Retirement FAQs Questions? Contact Help Desk 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 helpdesk@wichita.edu 316-978-HELP, Option 1 Help Desk Mainpage The following link will help guide students through the following topics: necessary technologies, working in Blackboard, using necessary computer applications, and becoming a successful remote student. Remote Student Support Pages 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©