Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences People Faculty Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Faculty Karianne Bergen Assistant Professor GeoChem Building [email protected] My research interest is in scientific machine learning (SciML). My past work has focused on machine learning for pattern recognition and discovery in large, complex sensor data sets, with applications in earthquake seismology and biodefense. Jung-Eun Lee, Associate Professor GeoChem Building Room 131 Phone: 863-6465 [email protected] I study the global water cycle, focusing on how the terrestrial ecosystem influences and is influenced by the physical climate system. My research tools are numerical models of different complexities, ranging from 1-dimensional simple models to more complex earth system models. I often work with researchers who make measurements to improve our understanding of the interplay among different components of the climate system. Gerrit Budde Assistant Professor GeoChem Building 033 Starting January 2022 [email protected] As a cosmochemist my research focuses on the origin and early evolution of the Solar System. Using high-precision isotope composition measurements of meteoritic and terrestrial samples, I investigate the provenance and genetic relationships of meteorites and their components, the timescales and processes of planetesimal accretion, as well as the formation history of planets and nature of their building materials. Yan Liang Professor GeoChem Building Room 046 Phone: 863-9477 [email protected] My general research interests are in the areas of laboratory experiments, theoretical analysis, numerical simulations, and petrologic and geochemical applications of mass transfer in fluid systems. Steven Clemens, Associate Professor, Research GeoChem Building Room 127 Phone: 863-1964 [email protected] I focus on Milankovitch to centennial-scale climate change within the Neogene, with an emphasis on the Indian and Asian monsoon regions. Amanda Lynch, Sloan Lindemann and George Lindemann, Jr. Distinguished Professor of Environmental Studies IBES Room 116 Phone: 863-5153 [email protected] My research interests focus primarily on the role of polar cyclones in the climate system, and on the policy implications of extreme weather in small and indigenous communities. I have a joint appointment with Geology and IBES. Reid Cooper, Professor GeoChem Building Room 031 Phone: 863-2160 [email protected] My research emphasizes solid-state mechanical and chemical kinetics in rocks, minerals and melts. (Also does interdisciplinary research with the Tectonophysics group). Ralph Milliken, Associate Professor Lincoln Field Building Phone: 863-1118 [email protected] My research focuses on exploring the geology of planetary surfaces and how we can use remote sensing methods (e.g., satellite and rover-based data) to address geologic problems. Specific interests include undestanding the distribution and role of water in the evolution of our solar system, understanding the extent to which reflectance spectroscopy can be used to quantify mineral and volatile abundances in geologic materials, and investigating the sedimentary rock record of Mars. Researchers in my group integrate experiments, theory, and field/spacecraft data to address these questions. I am currently a science team member for the Mars Curiosity rover, and other projects include mapping water on the Moon, laboratory studies of meteorites, and field studies of potential Mars analogs. Colleen Dalton, Associate Professor GeoChem Building Room 161 Phone: 863-3339 [email protected] I am a seismologist, and my research is focused on imaging the Earth's interior using seismic waves. The overarching goal of my research program is to determine 3-D variations in the temperature, composition, partial-melt content, and volatile abundance of Earth’s mantle. David Murray, Lecturer in Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences MacMillan Hall Room 114 Phone: 863-3531 [email protected] Ingrid Daubar, Assistant Professor (Research) Lincoln Field Building Room 108 Phone: 863-1437 [email protected] My research interests include impact craters and other time-varying phenomena on terrestrial planets. She has participated in science and operations on multiple missions including MRO, InSight, Europa Clipper, and Juno John Mustard, Professor Lincoln Field Building Room 110 Phone: 863-1264 [email protected] My research focuses on the processes that modify solid surfaces and the spatial and temporal scales that control environmental processes on the Earth. Alex Evans, Assistant Professor Lincoln Field Building Room 301 Phone: 863-1287 [email protected] I am interested in understanding the evolutionary, tectonic, geodynamic, and geophysical processes of solid planets. My work includes analyses of altimetry, gravity, geomorphology, and tectonics to determine the structure, surface, and internal evolution of solid planets. Stephen Parman, Associate Professor GeoChem Building Room 037 Phone: 863-3352 [email protected] My research focuses on the chemical evolution of the Earth, moons, and planets. Karen M. Fischer, Louis and Elizabeth Scherck Distinguished Professor of Geological Sciences GeoChem Building Room 163 [email protected] My research involves imaging the structure of the Earth's crust and mantle using seismic waves in order to better understand dynamic processes inside Earth. Marc Parmentier, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 162 Phone: 863-1700 [email protected] My research centers on understanding the roles of melting, melt migration, and mantle dynamics on the long-term evolution of the interior of the Earth and other planetary bodies. Don Forsyth, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 158 Phone: 863-1699 [email protected] My interests are in the processes that create new seafloor at mid-ocean ridges, the properties of the lithosphere and asthenosphere, and the nature of small-scale convection beneath tectonic plates. Carle Pieters, Professor Emeritus, Professor (Research) Lincoln Field Building [email protected] Professor Pieters' research focuses on surface processes and remote compositional analyses of planetary bodies. She has extensive laboratory experience with lunar samples and meteorites and has been an active science team member on lunar and asteroid exploration missions. Dr. Pieters was recently PI of the Moon Mineralogy Mapper (M3) on the Indian Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft, a CoI on NASA's Dawn Mission to Vesta and Ceres, and is currently a CoI on Trailblazer, a small NASA orbital mission to the Moon scheduled to be launched in 2023. Baylor Fox-Kemper, Professor GeoChem Building Room 133 Phone: 863-3979 [email protected] I study the physics of the ocean and its role in past, present, and future climate. I use models that range from the global scale to focused process models that apply universally. Warren Prell, Professor Emeritus, Professor (Research) GeoChem Building Room 132 Phone: 863-3221 [email protected] Much of my research is focused on using biotic and geochemical measurements in deep-sea and estuarine sediments to reconstruct past environmental and climate conditions. On the global scale, I have focused on understanding evolution of the Indian Ocean monsoon system and orbital-scale climate changes using observations and models. On the local scale, I have addressed questions of anthropogenic environmental and climate change in Narragansett Bay. For example, we have measured and mapped dissolved oxygen in the Bay and have used benthic foraminifera and chemical changes in the Bay's sediments to identify and understand the pre and post industrial changes in the spatial and temporal extent of hypoxia and pollution in Narragansett Bay. L. Peter Gromet, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 044 [email protected] My major research interest is on understanding the processes that control the tectonic evolution of ancient collisional mountain belts. James Russell, Royce Family Professor in Teaching Excellence & Chair GeoChem Building Room 143 Phone: 863-6330 [email protected] I use late Neogene lake sediments to investigate millennial to decadal-scale climate changes, focusing on tropical Africa and Indonesia. Meredith Hastings, Professor GeoChem Building Room 139 Phone: 863-3658 [email protected] My research focuses on the reactive nitrogen cycle, with an emphasis on nitrate deposition. I have a joint appointment with Geology & ECI. Malcolm Rutherford, Professor Emeritus, Professor (Research) GeoChem Building Room 049 Phone: 863-1927 [email protected] The focus of my research is the experimental, field, and theoretical investigations of the phase equilibria of calc-alkaline magmas. James Head, Professor of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences (Research): Louis and Elizabeth Scherck Distinguished Professor Emeritus of the Geological Sciences Lincoln Field Building Room 104 Phone: 863-2526 [email protected] Professor Head studies themes of planetary evolution and the role of volcanism and tectonism in the formation and evolution of planetary crusts. Several research projects are underway in the field in Antarctica, on the Earth's seafloor, and in assessing data from planetary surfaces to study climate change on Mars, volcanism on the Moon, Mars, and Venus, the geology of the surface of Mercury and the tectonic and volcanic evolution of icy satellites. Alberto Saal, Professor GeoChem Building Room 038 Phone: 863-7238 [email protected] I have broad interests in the application of geochemistry to problems of earth, planetary, and environmental science. Timothy Herbert, Professor GeoChem Building Room 125 Phone: 863-1207 [email protected] Understanding how the earth's climatic system, particularly the ocean, adjusts itself to perturbation on various timescales drives most aspects of my research. Peter Schultz, Professor Emeritus, Professor (Research) Lincoln Field Building Phone: 863-2417 [email protected] My main research has been on the effect of impact angle on cratering and the role of the atmosphere in modifying the process. Different planetary environments, laboratory simulations, and theoretical models allow testing under extreme conditions and to extreme scales. John Hermance, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 167 [email protected] My research is in the area of environmental geophysics and hydrology. Laurence C. Smith, John Atwater and Diana Nelson University Professor of Environmental Studies IBES Phone: 863-5153 [email protected] Laurence C. Smith is the John Atwater and Diana Nelson University Professor of Environmental Studies and Professor of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences (IBES/DEEP). His research interests include the Arctic, water resources, and satellite remote sensing technologies. Paul Hess, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 050 Phone: 863-1929 [email protected] I focus on fundamental geochemical questions ranging from the atomistic scale to larger problems dealing with the igneous evolution of the Moon and Mars. Victor Tsai, Associate Professor GeoChem Building, Room 162 Phone: 863-3339 [email protected] My research focuses on seismology and geomechanics, fluid-solid interactions in Earth systems, theoretical glaciology, and environmental seismology. Greg Hirth, Professor GeoChem Building Room 035 Phone: 863-7063 [email protected] My interests are in experimental rock mechanics, deformation mechanisms in both crustal and mantle lithologies, structural geology, application of experimental flow laws to geophysical and geological observations. (Also does interdisciplinary research with the Tectonophysics group). Jan Tullis, Professor GeoChem Building Room 033 Phone: 863-1921 [email protected] My research involves experimental investigations of the deformation mechanisms, microstructures, and rheology of crustal rocks. (Also does interdisciplinary research with the Tectonophysics group). Christopher Horvat, Assistant Professor of Environment and Society (Research) IBES Phone: 863-3032 [email protected] Terry Tullis, Professor Emeritus, Professor (Research) GeoChem Building Room 016 Phone: 863-3829 [email protected] I focus on understanding the mechanics of earthquakes. Yongsong Huang, Professor GeoChem Building Room 147 Phone: 863-3822 [email protected] I bring new capabilities for studies of lake and marine sediments in terms of isotopic measurements of organic substances. Thompson Webb, Professor Emeritus GeoChem Building Room 130 863-3128 [email protected] My paleoclimate research focuses on mapping large data sets and the calibration of pollen data in climate terms. Christian Huber, Associate Professor GeoChem Building Room 167 Phone: 863-5876 [email protected] I study the role of multiphase processes on the dynamics of Earth and other Planetary bodies. More specifically, I focus on volcanology, geodynamics and porous media flow with a variety of theoretical, numerical and experimental approaches. Daniel Ibarra, Visiting Assistant Professor GeoChem Building [email protected] I work on the water and carbon cycles in terrestrial environments. My work includes studying the response of terrestrial landscapes to changes in climate using modeling approaches, geochemical measurements, and field observations. People Faculty PostDocs/Visiting Scientists Grad Students Administrative Staff Technical Staff Job Openings Alumni Climate & Environment Group Alumni of the Geochemistry Research Group Alumni of the Geophysics Research Group Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide