Skip navigation Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Small Grants for Doctoral Student Research in Brazil The Office of Global Engagement (OGE) invites Brown doctoral students to submit proposals for travel grants to support research in Brazil. The grants are funded by a generous anonymous gift to honor Professor James N. Green’s distinguished contributions to research and teaching on modern Brazil. The opportunity is open to all Brown University doctoral students. The maximum award amount is $2,000. Funds may be used for research-related expenses in Brazil, including travel. Grantees are expected to submit a short (1-2 page) activity report at the end of the grant period. Up to ten awards will be made. A selection committee comprised of core faculty members of the Brazil Initiative will review applications and make their recommendations to the Associate Provost for Global Engagement. Applicants should submit: (1) Cover sheet with name, title, department address, box number, e-mail address and telephone number. (2) A brief (2-3 page) proposal describing the proposed project and expected outcomes of the research. A detailed budget and timeline should be included. (3) Curriculum Vitae These application materials should be submitted electronically to: [email protected] Applications are due by March 1, 2015. Applicants will be notified of the selection committee’s decisions in early March 2015. Funds will be available shortly thereafter. For more information contact Ramon Stern at (401) 863-6884 Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us / Accessibility Giving to Brown