Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Christopher W. Holmes Christopher W. Holmes General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Christopher W. Holmes General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Mr. Christopher W. Holmes became general counsel for Baylor University in August 2016 after having served in the Office of General Counsel since 2002. Prior to coming to Baylor, he was general counsel at Dallas Baptist University in Dallas, Texas and practiced law as a trial attorney with Cowles and Thompson, P.C., in Dallas, Texas. Mr. Holmes earned a BA in political science from Baylor in 1988. He earned a law degree, with honors, from the University of Texas at Austin in 1991. Mr. Holmes has served in a number of leadership positions in higher education. He served on the Board of Directors of the National Association of College and University Attorneys from 2014 to 2017. He has chaired several committees for NACUA, including the Committee on Legal Education and the Committee on Web Page Legal Resources. In 2011, Mr. Holmes received NACUA’s First Decade Award, which recognizes members who have provided outstanding service to NACUA and to the practice of higher education law during their first ten years of service in higher education. Mr. Holmes currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Big Bend Conservancy, a non-profit organization benefitting Big Bend National Park. He and his wife, Dawn (BSEd, ’89), have four children. Elise, Ridley, and Celia attend Baylor, and Clara attends Live Oak Classical School, where Dawn teaches. He and his family are members of Harris Creek Baptist Church, where Mr. Holmes serves as an elder. More Information Office of General Counsel Office of Governmental Relations Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor