A&F Auxiliary Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Auxiliary Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services The Hub Meal Plan Information Meal Plan Petition Meal Ticket Request Meal Plans Services & Forms Faculty Staff Close Out Form Meal Plan Petition Food Service Advisory Committee Student-At Large Membership Application Bookstore Advisory Committee Student At-Large Member Application Contact Us UH Home Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services UH Dining Vision Plan Campus Store Price Match/Book Loans Cougar Textbook Access Program Vending Services Dining Services Committees Faculty Textbook Adoption Appointment Calendar Contact us Auxiliary Services 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. Suite 103 University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-5013 Tel. 832-842-9053 auxiliaryservices@uh.edu Connect with our University Services Partners Cougar Card Office • University Copy, Print and Delivery Services • Office of Sustainability • Cullen Performance Hall Auxiliary Services Welcome to Auxiliary Services Mission Statement The mission of Auxiliary Services is to ensure that our programs are relevant, self-sustaining, and meet or exceed the wants and needs of our stakeholders; and that the diverse products and services we offer support student, academic, and research success and exceed community expectations. Vision Statement To delight stakeholders and promote student success by providing superior customer service and products; and by staying on the cutting edge of technology and innovation with the goal of providing award-winning food, bookstore, and vending services at the University of Houston. Core Values In Auxiliary Services, we make an IMPACT every day by serving our constituents with our core values in mind. Inclusion and Diversity Ensure products, services, behaviors and practices respect and support the unique needs of our constituents. Mindfulness Recognize that our work impacts student success. Progressive Spirit Strive to be on the forefront of technology and always look ahead and ask ourselves: What is next on the horizon? Accessibility Create an environment with programs and services that are accessible to all. Continuous Improvement Change. Adapt. Transform. Transparency Be ethical and accountable in all we say and do. CAMPUS STOREGet the best possible price on your textbooks with our price match program. You can also get an advance on funds to purchase your textbooks using our book loan program. Learn more » MARKET NEXT Market Next’ at the Technology Bridge retrofitted with AI-powered platform to transform the retail experience, ensure utmost student safety. Learn more » VENDING Need a snack or a drink? Find out where all the vending machines are located on campus. Learn more » WHAT’S NEW From the residential dining commons to retail locations, there are many new things in UH Dining. Learn more » University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies