Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Paying your Bill » Billed Sponsored Aid Set Navigation title in component Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Billed Sponsored Aid Invoiced or Billed Sponsored Aid is when a third party such as an employer, former employer, the military, non-profit organization or institution, or other organization agrees to pay some or all tuition and fees for five or more students and is notified by inovice or billed by the university when payment is due. Sponsored Student Agreements Organizations wanting to be invoiced or billed for tuition and fees must send a document (i.e. a letter of credit or voucher) listing the name and student ID (M#) of each student they intend to sponsor. This document should indicate in detail the amount to be paid and the specific tuition and fees they will cover. A document must be sent to the Cashier each term covering these details; and it can be sent by the sponsor or student. In order to receive an invoice for a student’s tuition and fees, organizations must sign a Sponsored Student Agreement. To be eligible for an agreement, organizations must be sponsoring at least 5 students for multiple, consecutive terms. If we do not have a Sponsored Student Agreement with an organization, credits will not be posted to the student’s account until payment is received from the sponsoring organization. Students should first check with their employer to see if they have a Sponsored Student Agreement with the Office of the Bursar before sending in vouchers or letters of credit. If there is not an agreement on file, students may need to send their sponsor further information, such as a copy of their term bill, regarding their account to have payment remitted by their organization. Ohio organizations that pay 100% of an employee’s tuition and fees and agree to comply with Senate Bill 53 requirements should complete the Sponsored Agreement for Senate Bill 53 (contact the Cashier's for a copy). Students covered by these agreements are charged in-state rates; likewise, the employers are billed in-state rates. To ensure timely credit to a student’s account all documentation must be received at least one week before the beginning of the term. Students are responsible for paying all tuition and fees not covered by the agreement by the due date or risk being assessed a late payment fee. Late paperwork, documentation, or credit not received by the due date will result in the account being assessed a late payment fee. Students should monitor their bills to be sure these payments are timely. If the payment is not received on time from the Sponsor the student should pay the bill by the due date to keep from receiving a late fee. Then, the student can be reimbursed by their employer or receive a refund if the employer subsequently pays the university. Refunds due to the student after the application of the Sponsored Aid payments to student’s account will be processed within five days. To ensure that you receive your refund as soon as possible, please make sure that you are signed up for direct deposit in Catalyst. You can check this in the My Finances tile under Billing Information. A Sponsored Student Agreement, as well as a purchase order, financial guarantee, or voucher is required from the sponsoring agency authorizing the university to bill the sponsor directly for the student’s expenses. The University of Cincinnati requires new sponsors to have at least 5 students enrolled for multiple, consecutive terms to set up a new agreement. Upon receiving the authorization from the sponsor, a sponsor credit will be applied to the student’s account. After the drop/add refund period, second week of the term, the Cashier will begin invoicing the sponsors. Sponsored Student's Responsibilities The student is responsible for providing a valid authorization from their sponsor, prior to the beginning of the term to avoid late payment fees and service blocks. If the sponsor does not cover the total cost of the tuition and fees, it is the student’s responsibility to pay the remaining balance due. The student is responsible for knowing the duration of the agreement/authorization and obtaining a new authorization as needed. The university will not notify a student when the authorization has expired. Provide the sponsor with additional information required such as transcripts, grades, class schedules and other non-financial related requirements. Sponsor's Responsibilities Provide contract, purchase order or voucher to the university prior to the beginning of the term. The authorization should contain the student’s name and student id number, charges covered, dollar limitations of the covered charges, length of sponsorship, sponsor’s billing address, contact name and number, fax number and email address. Sponsor payments should be made to the “University of Cincinnati” and not applied to the student’s bill as a check payment. Payment of the invoice is due, in full, upon receipt of the invoice. Sponsor should mail payment to the address provided on the invoice or by ACH/wire payment to the university’s bank account UC Bursar's Responsibilities Staff will review authorizations upon receipt and certify a student’s eligibility, then post credit to the student’s account. Staff will invoice the sponsor for the authorized charges beginning the third week of the term. The invoice will include the student’s name and the total charges. Staff may charge back to the student’s account any charges resulting from non-payment by the sponsor. Invoiced or billed sponsorship forms and/or checks should be addressed to: University of Cincinnati Accounts Receivable P.O. Box 933038 Cleveland, OH 44193 Questions regarding invoiced or billed sponsorships should be directed to the Cashier at (513) 556-3966, by e-mail at cashiers@ucmail.uc.edu or fax to (513) 556-2681. Contact in person should be done through the One Stop Service Center on the 2nd floor of the University Pavilion. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top