Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry Summer CI + UR Program Mentors Students Events The Summer CI + UR Program offers Clemson undergraduate students the opportunity to engage in research for up to 10 weeks over the summer under the guidance of a faculty mentor. To apply for this competitive award, students must be nominated by mentors and then are asked to complete an application. Student recipients of the Summer CI + UR award receive a stipend for their summer work. The 2022 Summer CI + UR Program Nominations and Applications will be open February 18 – March 18, 2022. The 2022 program will run May 23 – July 29, 2022. All participants will present their work at the 6th Annual Summer CI + UR Showcase on August 23. Program Options Traditional: This is a 10-week program (May 23 – July 29, 2022), students will be paid $14/hr for 28 hr/week. Timesheets and payroll will be handled in your department/college. Students are invited to weekly lunch seminars and workshops. Students will submit abstracts and present their summer research at the Summer Showcase on August 23. Modified: This is a six-week program (May 23 – June 30, 2022), students will be paid $14/hr for 20 or 28 hr/ week. Timesheets and payroll will be handled in your department/college. Students are invited to weekly lunch seminars and workshops. Students will submit abstracts and present their summer research at the Summer Showcase on August 23. Supply Funds for Summer CI + UR Program Summer CI + UR student projects can request an appropriately justified budget up to $2000. Supplies requested through these funds need to be ordered the first week of the program (May 23) and all awarded funds must be spent before June 30. Eligibility for summer supply/field work travel funding for summer includes: CI project presented in the 2022 FoCI CI mentor regularly meets CI report deadlines and has students respond to CI surveys The 2021 Summer CI + UR Program This summer 65 students are working under the guidance of 42 faculty and graduate students mentors in 13 departments in five of our colleges. Their research varies from identifying gait behaviors exhibited by patients with Parkinson’s Disease to establishing hellbender density in a creek in NC to investigating the stress, burnout rates and resilience of nurses. Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Mentors Students Events Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram