COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Faculty Advancement Section Menu Resources for Teaching Resources for Advancing Research Resources for Career Support Faculty in the News Faculty Accomplishments Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Syllabus Template Faculty Fellows Faculty Fellows by Year Faculty Fellows Resources Faculty Advancement aims to support all faculty in their roles as teachers, researchers, and citizens of the university. Multiple units across campus offer services and resources to facilitate faculty as engaged scholars. Academic Affairs Calendar/Events Higher Education News Teaching Today Newsletter Resources for Teaching Syllabus Template Syllabus Policies & Student Resources First Year Seminars Blackboard Training Classroom Technology Training Schedule Online Instruction Academic Integrity Accessibility in the Classroom Academy for Effective Teaching Wichita State University provides its faculty with thorough resources to meet their instructional needs. Faculty Advancement Home Resources for Advancing Research Resources for Research Support Institutional Research Board Research Compliance External Grant Opportunities Internal Grant Opportunities Grants - Financial Management Faculty Advancement Home Resources for Career Support Wichita State University supports our faculty in their career aspirations. Resources FAR (Annual evaluation) Tenure and Promotion Non-tenure track Promotion Sabbatical Leave Faculty Rights Policy New Faculty Resources Pre-Tenure Club Wellness Resources Faculty Advancement Home Faculty in the News Faculty News Archive Faculty Advancement Home WSU researcher awarded $1.1 million grant to create adaptive wayfinding system The National Science Foundation awarded Dr. Vinod Namboodiri and his team more than $1.1 million to create a navigational system for people with disabilities. CityGuide will work to fill in the gaps of traditional GPS systems to help with emergency evacuation, remote assistance, and travel within transit systems. Read on. Wichita State’s 125th birthday celebrated with a graphic novel Jay Price, a history professor at Wichita State, is honoring Wichita State’s birthday by creating a graphic novel called "The Wichita State Story. The 25-page book will recount significant events, people, student life and traditions in the university's history. Read on. Anthropology professor finds evidence of wine, caffeine in 500-year-old pottery Dr. Crystal Dozier, assistant professor of anthropology, found chemical markers that indicate evidence of caffeine and wine in pre-colonial indigenous populations. Findings contradict stereotypes of alcohol use in Native American populations. Read on. Wichita State chemist identifies potential COVID-19 treatment Wichita State University medical chemist Dr. Bill Groutas is part of a multi-university team to research treatments for COVID-19. The study was published in the Aug. 3, 2020 issue of Science Translational Medicine. Read on. Political science professor seeks to slay gerrymandering through research Brian Amos, assistant professor of political science at Wichita State University, has dedicated numerous papers and conferences to gerrymandering research. Amos' work is a part of an exhibition series on display at WSU's Ulrich Museum of Art, titled "Solving for X," and each show is organized by the Ulrich in collaboration with a university scholar. The museum’s goal is to work with scholars in all disciplines to create visualizations of their research and explore the potential for the museum to give the public access to the important research happening on campus... Read On Criminal justice professor fights for prisoners' families The odds of Breanna Boppre ending up in the correctional system were astronomically higher than the odds of her becoming Dr. Breanna Boppre, assistant professor of criminal justice at Wichita State University. “Throughout my childhood and young adulthood, both my parents were incarcerated,” Boppre said. “I grew up visiting my dad in prisons all across the state of Nevada. Depending on the source, research indicates that a child of incarcerated parents runs a risk between two and six times higher of being incarcerated than those without incarcerated parents. Read More Faculty award winner expresses creativity with guitar and jazz William Flynn, assistant professor of guitar at Wichita State, recently won the Excellence in Creative Activity Award, which recognizes faculty members who have established an exemplary record of creative activity that has brought recognition to the university. With a history of performances around the country, instructional videos on social media, published guitar books and several released albums, William has definitely established a record of exemplary creativity. Along with his role of assistant professor, he holds the positions of director of jazz studies, graduate coordinator for the School of Music, jazz combos coach and director of guitar ensemble. “It’s really an honor to be recognized,” he said. “I’m just doing things that I’m passionate about and that are important to me.”... Read On Faculty in the News Shock Doc: Guadalupe Gonzalez Smith & Dr. Will Parcell, Geology Department Faculty Accomplishments Wichita State University has a world-class faculty. Faculty Awards Faculty Fellows Faculty Grants Academe Faculty Advancement Home Diversity and Inclusive Excellence Faculty Advancement Home NSF Advance Grant As a strategic value of Wichita State University, the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement exists to cultivate and sustain community relationships with key constituency groups that promote and elevate the mission of Wichita State University. The division is vital to ensuring Wichita State University is reflective of the community it serves and strives to promote equity and opportunity for all. Tilford Conference The Michael Tilford Conference provides an opportunity for faculty, staff, and administrators at Kansas Board of Regents institutions to approach diversity in higher education by examining the challenges and opportunities in Kansas. WSU Women Women of Wichita State University is a new group that formed in the Fall of 2018 by the combination of two groups; the Wichita State University Women's Association, founded in 1928, and the Council of University Women found in 1930. The purpose of the group is to serve the interests of the University, to provide student scholarships, and to promote social interaction and a sense of community among its members. President's Diversity Council The President's Diversity Council is an advisory and leadership team responsible for developing, overseeing and monitoring University-wide efforts to achieve Wichita State University's commitment to diversity as a core institutional and educational value. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©