Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Degree overview > Majors Majors Many students are undecided about their majors when they enter college — and many who have decided will change their minds more than once before they graduate. There is a lot to choose from at a university of this size, and there are many factors to think about as you consider potential majors. What is a major? A major is an extended study of one academic area, usually within one department of the University. Your major consists of at least 50 credits and makes up about one-third of your bachelor’s degree program. Major admission categories Open Admission: Students in good academic standing are admitted at any time. Selective/Minimum Requirements Admission: Requires students to complete satisfactorily a set of prerequisite courses with a minimum GPA. All students who meet the minimum requirements are admitted. Capacity-Constrained Admission: Students must complete all of the minimum requirements to apply. Admission is not guaranteed because space is limited. These majors often have application forms and application deadlines; some of them require standardized tests, recommendations, and/or interviews. Pre-Major (pre-science, pre-humanities, etc) The vast majority of students enter UW as a pre-major (this includes pre-science, pre-humanities, etc.) This status simply means a student has not yet declared a major at UW. The type of pre-major a student is coded as correlates to what that student put on their UW application but does not impact a student’s choice of major later. For example, if a student indicated Physics as their first choice major on their application then they would be coded as pre-science but could pursue a degree in Art History if they so chose. Double Majors and Double Degrees Double Major You will earn a double major when both majors lead to the same degree name (e.g., B.A., B.S., B.F.A.), even if the two majors are in different colleges or schools. For example, if you complete the requirements for the B.A. degree with a major in American Ethnic Studies (College of Arts and Sciences) and the B.A. degree with a major in Architectural Studies (College of Built Environments), you will earn a single B.A. degree with a double major. You cannot earn a double degree when the two majors lead to the same degree name. Double Degree You will earn a double degree when the two majors lead to differently-named degrees (e.g., B.A. vs. B.S.). For example, if you complete the requirements for the B.A. degree with a major in Geography and the B.S. degree with a major in Earth and Space Sciences, you will earn a double degree. Another example: if you complete the requirements for the B.A. in Business Administration degree and the B.A. degree with a major in Political Science, you will earn a double degree. Although these are both Bachelors of Arts, the Business Administration major is a named degree and so does not have the same degree name as the Political Science degree. More about Double Majors and Double Degrees Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-Major Extensions The University of Washington Satisfactory Progress Policy states that students are expected to declare a major by the time they have earned 105 credits and completed 5 quarters. Both conditions need to be met in order for the satisfactory progress rules to go into effect. More about Satisfactory Progress and Pre-Major Extension Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Did you know? Your major is only a part of your overall education at UW. In fact, 93% of employers consider other factors to be more important when hiring for entry-level positions than a candidate's college major. Thinking About a Pre-Major Extension (PME)? Learn more about the PME process. Alumni Spotlight Maria Partida-Aguilar 2019, General Biology I came in with the intention of majoring in biology and ended up doing so. But for me the realization that major does not equal career was really important. Learning I had multiple career paths was relieving because it meant I wasn’t pigeon holed into one option, which then let me start to rethink my career goals and be more open to the opportunities presented to me. I was deadset on being a doctor when I first entered, but I then learned there are more ways to get involved in healthcare that interested me more which makes me excited about my future. More University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA