Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Documents » PDF Documents Set Navigation title in component Microsoft Excel Accessibility Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents Guides Checklist Tutorials PDFs are the most challenging file formats for accessibility. Below is guidance on how to create, remediate and select alternative formats that are more accessible than a PDF. Creating an Accessible PDF PDFs are challenging to remediate for accessibility; hence it is particularly important to incorporate accessibility principles into the process of creating a document. If you create an accessible document in Microsoft Word and export the content to a PDF document, the accessibility features should carry forward to in the PDF. Exporting a Microsoft Word Document to an Accessible PDF Remediating a PDF Remediating is the process of “tagging” digital elements of PDF documents so that they can be read using assistive technology. These “Tags” identify the elements and inform the assistive technology about the order in which they are meant to be read like Headings and Column order. If you have a PDF that you did not create, but want to share with others, it will likely need to be remediated to make sure it is accessible. Accessibility Resources can provide faculty and staff access to Equidox, a PDF remediation software. Contact Mitchel Jones (jmc@ucmail.uc.edu) for more information on how to access this tool. If you have Adobe Acrobat Pro DC you can use the Accessibility Action Wizard as a tool that identifies and provides guidance on how to make your PDF accessible. Selecting Alternative Formats Whenever possible PDF content should be developed into web content or placed natively into a learning management/content management systems such as Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) or Canvas. There are numerous benefits to creating content natively into web formats such as: Living Content: When a PDF is uploaded to the internet it is permanent. Once downloaded by a client or user it cannot be recalled or altered in any way. If the content changes in anyway, it must be removed from the website and replaced with an updated version, which must also be remediated for accessibility. Native web content is living and can be altered or changed at any time by the content creator without worrying about uploading content or having misinformation circulating. Mobile Responsiveness: Many people use their phones to view web content and PDF documents cannot respond to mobile environments. Native web content living inside Canvas or a UC website responds well to mobile platforms, can be effectively zoomed, and the user can increase contrast or alter the text to make it more readable on any platform. Ease of Accessibility: While PDFs are difficult to make accessible, content generated within UC websites and Canvas are difficult to make inaccessible. Tools are available the text editor that help a user make the content accessible before it is published. For example, tables created in PDF format are challenging be made accessible, while tables created in AEM will always be accessible, without additional effort or consideration from the content creator. Forms: Forms in PDF are notoriously difficult to be made accessible. There are a number of accessible form solutions available to content creators at UC for use on the web that require little extra accessibility consideration from the content creator. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top