Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies News Professor Onésimo Almeida Receives Lifetime Achievement Award Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Professor Onésimo Almeida Receives Lifetime Achievement Award September 9, 2021 We are delighted to announce that this year's Chair's Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Humanities from the Rhode Island Humanities Council is Professor Onésimo Almeida! The Rhode Island Council for the Humanities’ annual Celebration of the Humanities event recognizes leadership, creative achievement, innovation, and scholarship. Each fall they host a Celebration of the Humanities to celebrates the people and projects that make Rhode Island a vital place to live and recognizes the work of extraordinary members of Rhode Island’s public humanities community. As expressed on the Council's website: Onésimo T. Almeida, PhD, is known worldwide for his knowledge and promotion of Portuguese culture and heritage. Born in the Azores, Almeida graduated from the Portuguese Catholic University, Lisbon in 1972. He earned his MA and PhD in Philosophy from Brown University. Since 1975, Almeida has served as a professor in Brown University’s Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies; as chair for over a decade. Almeida has authored and edited numerous books and published several hundred essays in academic journals, newspapers, and other periodicals. The recipient of various awards, Almeida was honored by the President of Portugal in 2019 with the prestigious Grã-Cruz of the Prince Henry Order. He was elected to the Academia da Marinha (Lisbon) and to the Portuguese Academy of Sciences and has received an Honorary Degree from the University of Aveiro, Portugal. He is a respected leader in the academy and in Portuguese communities with deep roots across Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts. The Council will hold a virtual event on Thursday, October 7th, including an interview with Professor Almeida and a roundtable discussion with this year's four honorees. Please join us in congratulating Professor Almeida, and mark your calendars to attend the Council's celebration of his work. RI Humanities Celebrate Event Related Links RI Humanities Council Also in Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Site Navigation Home About News People Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Courses Publications Resources Contact Print this Page Share this Page Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Brown University Box O Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3042 Phone 401-863-2695 Fax 401-863-7261 [email protected] Stay Connected with Department of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity