Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home UT System Offices The Office of General Counsel Page title Open Records Main page content The Texas Public Information Act (Texas Government Code, Chapter 552) entitles each person to complete information about the affairs of government and the official acts of public officials and employees, unless otherwise expressly provided by law. The University of Texas System is committed to providing customer-friendly service when responding to requests for public information. Make a Request A request for public information from UT System Administration should be directed to: By Mail: Mr. Daniel H. Sharphorn Vice Chancellor and General Counsel The University of Texas System 210 West 7th Street Austin, Texas 78701-2903 By Electronic Mail: publicinformation@utsystem.edu (Subject line of email should read: TPIA) Emailed requests should not include attachments to avoid delay. Emails with attachments may be blocked by the Microsoft Exchange Server. By Hand Delivery: Attn: Cynthia Tynan and Jennifer Burnett 210 West 7th Street Austin, Texas 78701 The University of Texas System Administration does not typically maintain records of its component institutions. If you seek records from a component institution, please visit the links below to obtain information on how to make a public information request to that institution. Student transcripts and patient medical records cannot be released through an open records request. UT Arlington Open Records UT Austin Open Records UT Dallas Open Records UT El Paso Open Records UT Permian Basin Open Records UT Rio Grande Valley Open Records UT San Antonio Open Records UT Tyler Open Records UT Southwestern Medical Center Open Records UT Medical Branch at Galveston Open Records UT Health Science Center at Houston Open Records UT Health Science Center at San Antonio Open Records UT MD Anderson Cancer Center Open Records UT Health Science Center at Tyler Open Records UTIMCO Open Records If you have questions, please contact Cynthia Tynan at (512) 499-4505 or Jennifer Burnett at 512-579-5187. Sample Written Request for Information. (PDF) Learn more about the requestor's rights and government responsibilities. (PDF) UTS139 sets forth procedures UT System follows for complying with the TPIA. For more information about the TPIA or open records requests, you may wish to refer to the Office of the Attorney General's Public Information Handbook. If UT System Administration possesses information about an individual which is incorrect, the individual may request a correction of that information by e-mailing publicinformation@utsystem.edu. Office - General Counsel - Standard General Counsel Executive Officer Staff & Contact Information Office - General Counsel Attorneys, Professionals and Staff - By Section Attorneys and Professionals - By Specialty Area Administrative and Paraprofessional Staff Practice Sections Business Law Claims and Financial Litigation General Law Health Law Specialty Areas Construction Contracts and Contracting Resources Contracting and Procurement Practice Group Resource Pages Delegations of Authority for UT Institutions Intellectual Property Open Records Outside Counsel Privacy Real Estate Tax, Employee Benefits and Gift Planning Additional Resources Checklists Document Library UT System and Outside Links Resources 2017 UT System Legal Conference 2018 UT System Legal Conference 2019 UT System Legal Conference 2020 UT System Legal Conference 2021 UT System Legal Conference UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices