Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Provost Provost right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet the Provost right arrow down arrow Event Request Form Leadership Committees Next Lives Here Initiatives right arrow down arrow COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Faculty right arrow down arrow Reappointment, Promotion, and Tenure right arrow down arrow eRPT Collective Bargaining Agreement Resources right arrow down arrow Faculty Retention Program Proposal Process right arrow down arrow Distance Learning Programs Adjunct Resources Leaves of Absence Associations right arrow down arrow Latino Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Members Resources Events & Photo Gallery News Emeriti Association right arrow down arrow Membership LGBTQ Faculty and Staff Association Black Faculty Association right arrow down arrow About Resources Events and News Committees Photo Gallery The Academy of Fellows - AFTL right arrow down arrow Members, Eligibility & Benefits Journal for Research & Practice in College Teaching Faculty Enrichment Center right arrow down arrow Programming and Resources Colleges and Offices right arrow down arrow Colleges Offices right arrow down arrow Faculty Affairs & Academic Personnel Enrollment Management Graduate School The Office of Institutional Research right arrow down arrow Facts & Dashboards College Financial Reporting Survey Research & Consulting Resources Contact Us UC International IT @ UC Student Affairs Undergraduate Studies right arrow down arrow Affiliated Offices Integrated Core Learning (ICL) General Education Core Contact Us Awards right arrow down arrow All-University Faculty Awards Home » About UC » Office of the Provost » Initiatives » Dual Career Assistance Program Set Navigation title in component COACHE Textbook Affordability UC Women Lead Program Dual Career Assistance Program Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program Decanal Searches Dual Career Assistance Program The Office of the Provost’s Dual Career Assistance Program is designed to assist partners of newly hired tenured and tenure-eligible faculty obtain faculty appointments at the University of Cincinnati. The Office of the Provost will provide partial support for faculty salaries, typically on a matching basis from the home department or college, and for a limited time, typically two to three years. Dual Career awards will be made when departments have met the following requirements: Demonstrated academic program needs. Support for the hire from the department or school as evidenced by an affirmative majority vote from the faculty (or group that votes) for the new hire at specified rank. Endorsement by the dean of the college. The intent of this program is to provide bridge funding to support dual career hires that will be fully funded by the candidates’ respective colleges, schools or departments within two to three years. Newly hired faculty seeking employment opportunities for a partner are encouraged to discuss the Dual Career Assistance Program with the hiring unit early in the process. Program Guidelines Requirements The Office of the Provost will provide partial, one-time support for faculty salaries up to two years (see appendix). Dual Career awards will be made when departments have met the following requirements: Demonstrated academic program needs; Support for the hire from the department/division as evidenced by an affirmative majority vote from the faculty (or group that votes) for the new hire at specified rank has been attained; The Dean of the college endorses the hire; The Provost approves the hire; and The Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives approves the hire as a Dual Career hire. Board Rule Impact: Nepotism In the hiring of a qualified partner, nepotism must be avoided per Board Rule 3361:30-21-05. Hiring Categories, Policies, and Procedures The remainder of this page provides a brief overview of the partner-hiring policies and procedures for incoming faculty (Category 1: Pre-Hire) and current faculty (Category 2: Current Faculty). Category 1: Pre-Hire right arrow down arrow The Dual Career Assistance Program through the Office of the Provost provides administrative and financial assistance for applicants in this category. In this scenario, Board Rule 3361:30-21-05 on nepotism typically does not apply since the applicant is not yet formally employed at UC. Process During the hiring process, the applicant notifies the search committee chair or his or her potential unit head/director that a partner is also interested in employment at UC. This notification typically happens after the potential new hire has received the initial offer letter. The finalist should be asked about the desired position of the partner (tenure-track, educator, visiting professor, etc.). The unit head/director or search committee chair secures a resume or curriculum vitae and any other materials conveying the interests and accomplishments of the partner and notifies the college Dean or designee of the desire to secure a position for the partner. Along with a request for consideration as a Dual Career hire, the Dean or designee submits the materials to the Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives and notifies units within the college or other colleges who might potentially receive the partner. The Dean of the potential receiving college is strongly encouraged to seek approval to hire from the provost before beginning the hiring process. Depending upon the position sought, the partner may be invited by any potential hiring units to interview for available positions commensurate with his/her experience and credentials. Limited funding may be available through the Office of the Provost to assist with travel expenses. As noted above, the potential hire must fill a demonstrated need of the receiving unit and receive an affirmative majority vote from the faculty in the receiving department. A position is not guaranteed and will likely depend on the existing needs and budget of the receiving college. Any offer of employment is made directly to the qualified partner. Category 2: Current Faculty right arrow down arrow The Dual Career Assistance Program through the Office of the Provost may provide administrative assistance but typically does not provide financial assistance for applicants in this category. If a faculty member currently employed by the University of Cincinnati has a partner who later seeks employment at the university, Board Rule 3361:30-21-05 on nepotism applies. Therefore, a specific set of requirements and processes must be followed. Process The currently employed faculty member notifies his or her unit head/director that a partner situation exists. The head/director then notifies the Dean or designee, who then is typically responsible for initiating the process. From this point forward, the current faculty member must not be involved in the proceedings of the partner’s potential hire in any way. Any inquiry into the process, including contacting anyone involved may be considered a violation of Board Rule 3361:30-21-05. It is the responsibility of the college Dean or designee to contact the partner to discuss the desired position (tenure-track, educator, visiting professor, etc.) and secure a resume or curriculum vitae and any other materials conveying the interests and accomplishments of the partner. The Dean may notify units within the college, or other colleges or units who might potentially receive the partner of the interest of the partner or request the assistance of the Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives with this step. If an exception is made and funding is requested, the Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives must be informed of the prospective hire. The Dean of the potential receiving college is strongly encouraged to seek approval to hire from the provost before beginning the hiring process. The partner may then be invited by any potential hiring units to interview for a position. The potential hire must fill a demonstrated need of the receiving unit, and the faculty in the receiving unit must support the potential hire through a majority vote. A position is not guaranteed and will likely depend on the existing needs and budget of the receiving college. Negotiation is carried out directly with the partner, and any offer of employment is made directly to the partner Note: according to the Board Rule, the definition of “relative” includes a “Spouse” but this definition does not include a “Partner” at this time. This rule is currently being amended to include “Partner.” Allocation of Strategic Hiring and Dual Career Assistance Dollars The Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program and Dual Career Assistance Program provide bridge funding to support hires that will be fully funded by the candidates’ respective colleges, schools or departments within two years. The Office of the Provost will seek equity (rather than equality) in the distribution of funds across the university and will distribute funds on a percentage basis to each receiving college based on the total number of requests received. Applicants hired through either program may not be funded by multiple hiring initiatives in the Office of the Provost. Each year the Office of the Provost will receive and approve requests for funding through the Strategic Hiring Opportunity Program and the Dual Career Assistance Program. The annual cycle will be as follows: May 1 – April 30 – will be calculated and awarded for the following fiscal year. The Associate Provost for Faculty Development and Special Initiatives will add the approved candidates to the comprehensive list of requests. At the end of each cycle (see above) the requests will be totaled. If the total exceeds the amount available, there will be a proration and awards will be made based on the percentage each request represents of the total requests. The award will be divided equally over the two years. If the total is less than the amount available, each award will be for 50% of the initial starting salary divided equally over two years. Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Provost 2614 McMicken Cir, Cincinnati, OH 45219 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top