Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Writing Fellows Courses One of many student-driven organizations at Brown, Writing Fellows work in a spirit of collegiality, helping to extend intellectual discourse beyond the classroom. Mutually engaged, Fellows and Fellowees ultimately do more than focus on writing; they shape their own and each other’s education, and in so doing they help to keep vibrant what is most unique and valuable about Brown. As peers, Fellows serve as sympathetic readers, providing informed, constructive criticism directed toward the argumentation, analysis, organization, clarity and style of papers. After drafts of papers are returned, Writing Fellows meet with each of their Fellowees in conference. These conferences provide a chance to discuss revision strategies and work through additional concerns. SPRING 2022 WRITING FELLOWS COURSE DESCRIPTIONS AFRI 1330: Africana Studies Junior Seminar Professors: Lisa Biggs and Austin Jackson Course Description: This junior seminar course is designed to support students’ growth as academic writers and will prepare them to better complete their culminating senior thesis projects. While specifically geared towards Africana Studies concentrators, the class is open to any undergraduate student who has successfully completed AFRI 0090: An Introduction to Africana Studies and at least four semesters of coursework overall towards the Bachelor’s degree. Course materials will delve deeply into the history, spaces, peoples and cultures of the African Diaspora, exploring a selection of critical writings, performance pieces, fiction and non-fiction works by leading scholars and artists. CZCH1000: Dimensions of Czech Animation Professor: Masako Fidler Course Description: What are our expectations of animation films? This course will help you rethink and learn to “read” animation as an artistic and politically inspired form. Czech animation, with its long tradition and international reputation, is a vibrant branch of visual arts. Yet this artistic form has not only been extensively studied nor noticed until recently. We will study cultural-historical contexts that gave rise to the internationally acclaimed Czech animation by Trnka, Svankmajer and others. Fascination with Czech animation in Japan used as an example to illustrate the mechanism of cross-cultural reception of Czech animation. Readings of related Czech culture/metaphor/animation techniques. Selected Japanese animation films will also be discussed. Readings in English. Films are dubbed or subtitled in English. No prerequisites. EDUC 1645-S01: Moral Development and Education Professor: Jin Li Course Description: This course focuses on the acquisition of moral values within the home, school, and peer groups. We will examine contending approaches to moral development and its fostering. Topics include the philosophical underpinnings of moral theory, the cognitive and behavioral dynamics of moral growth, the values climate of contemporary American society, and the role of education in the moral development of children. We will also consider cultural, ethnic, and gender differences. ENGN 1010: The Entrepreneurial Process Professor: Danny Warshay Course Description: Entrepreneurship is innovation in practice: transforming ideas into opportunities, and, through a deliberate process, opportunities into commercial realities. These entrepreneurial activities can take place in two contexts: the creation of new organizations; and within existing organizations. This course will present an entrepreneurial framework for these entrepreneurial processes, supported by case studies that illustrate essential elements. Successful entrepreneurs and expert practitioners will be introduced who will highlight practical approaches to entrepreneurial success. HIST0250: American Exceptionalism: The History of an Idea Professor: Michael Vorenberg Course Description: For four centuries, the theme of America having a special place in the world has dominated American politics and culture, though many have questioned or challenged American distinctiveness. This course examines articulations and critiques of American exceptionalism, using sources from American history and literature, from comparative history and literature, and from modern U.S. culture and politics. Although it offers an introduction to American history, it is different from a traditional high school or introductory college course because of its thematic focus and its emphasis on U.S. history in a global context. Intended for students in any discipline and in any year at Brown. ITAL 1262-01 / HIST 1262 F-01: Women Gender Feminism in Early Modern Italy Professor: Caroline Castiglione Course Description: This course explores the variety of Italian women’s histories, issues of gender and sexuality, and ingenious responses to circumvent the social, economic, religious, and political limitations placed upon them during the early modern period (1400-1800). Italian women produced some of the foundational texts of historical feminism, the intellectual and cultural movement that advanced the idea of equality across genders and the necessity of equal access to opportunity and education. This course surveys the alternatives proposed to the gender hierarchies of Italian society and will include selections from archival documents, letters, literature, treatises, and the visual arts. Taught in English. POLS 0920I: The Politics, Ethics, and Art of Corruption Professor: Rebecca Weitz-Shapiro Course Description: What explains variation in corruption across and within democratic countries? What motivates the citizens and officials who engage in corrupt acts? Is there such a thing as a “culture of corruption”? In order to understand these questions (and attempt to answer them), this course takes a somewhat unconventional approach. While we use the analytical approach of the social sciences as our foundation, we also draw on films (documentary and fiction), interviews, and journalistic reporting to understand the individual and systemic causes and consequences of corruption, as well as the narratives citizens create surrounding corruption. Some weeks we focus on a particular country, while in other weeks we take a thematic approach. Throughout the course, we will draw on examples from across the globe, including Latin America, Africa, Europe, and Asia. RELS 0095B: Islam in Fiction: History, Romance, Satire Professor: Shahzad Bashir Course Description: For Muslims and non-Muslims alike, modern fiction has been a dynamic and inspiring arena to express understandings of Islam. We will concentrate on works remarkable for the virtuosity of literary expression and the religious, social, and political issues they treat while speaking from, and to, specific societies. Readings include works in English and translations from Arabic, Bosnian, French, Indonesian, Persian, Portuguese, Urdu/Hindi, and Turkish. No prior knowledge of Islam is presumed. The course will be conducted in an exploratory spirit, welcoming all who are interested in Islam and/or fiction as a means for exploring major issues in human existence. SOC1871O: Law, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship Professor: Mark Suchman Course Description: This seminar explores the relationship between law and organizational change, with particular attention to the emergence of new technologies, new enterprises, and new fields. Topics focus on underlying sociological processes, not on technical or practical details of particular legal or industrial settings. The seminar is aimed at advanced students who are familiar with organizational sociology; familiarity with law is helpful, but not essential. Through shared and individual readings, weekly discussions, and e-mail dialogs, this course helps students to refine and extend their thinking on important and controversial topics at the intersection of contemporary organizational and socio-legal studies. Past Writing Fellows Course Descriptions Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top