Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Academics Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice The JTS Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice develops Jewish leaders with the knowledge and skills to make the pursuit of justice central to their leadership. The center weaves the study of Jewish ethics and training in civic engagement into the JTS curriculum. Through public initiatives, strategic partnerships, and interfaith collaboration, the Hendel Center serves as a laboratory for religious leaders to speak and act on the issues of the day. Our Work Since its inception, the Hendel Center has launched numerous initiatives to train students in using Jewish texts and community organizing skills to address issues such as climate change, gender inequity, racism, voter access, and racial justice in the Jewish community. The center also sponsors public lectures and discussions on a range of issues related to ethics and justice. Here are some of the Hendel Center’s ongoing initiatives: Climate Change: A group of JTS Rabbinical School students serve as fellows with Dayenu: A Jewish Call to Climate Action. Racial Justice: The JTS Hendel Center is a lead sponsor of The Workshop, North America’s first arts fellowship focused on the work of Jews of Color, Jews of Indigenous backgrounds, and Jews of Sephardic and/or Mizrahi heritage. The center is collaborating with USY on the launch of its JOCISM Cohort, for young Jews of Color, Indigenous Jews, Sephardi Jews, and Mizrahi across North America. Gender: Through the Gender, Torah, and Tradition fellowship, a group of JTS undergraduate and graduate students, alumni, faculty, and board members are exploring how we can engage with patriarchal Jewish texts while maintaining our commitment to gender equity and feminism in the 21st century. Community Organizing: The Hendel Center partners with Join for Justice, the Rabbinical Assembly, and USCJ to run twice yearly cohorts for Conservative Jewish clergy and lay leaders in community organizing. Executive Director Stephanie Ruskay Associate Dean, The Rabbinical School Rabbi Stephanie Ruskay has made her career in the Jewish social justice sector. Rabbi Ruskay has served in leadership positions at American Jewish World Service, Auburn Theological Seminary, AVODAH: The Jewish Service Corps, and JOIN for Justice. She directs field education and entrepreneurial endeavors, and is focused on raising the scope and profile of social justice work and community organizing skills in the role of the contemporary rabbi. Read More The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice is made possible through a generous endowment from Ruth and Steven Hendel. SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message