Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid Additional Fellowships These Harvard-wide fellowships require an application through the HGSE Financial Aid Office or Harvard University Committee on General Scholarships (CGS). These opportunities are available for full-time residential applicants. (IMPORTANT: Application deadlines posted elsewhere, even within Harvard, may differ from the HGSE deadline. You should check with the appropriate office for answers to questions.) Fulbright Student Programs HGSE Students who are U.S. Citizens can apply for one of two types of Fulbright Grants and interview with the HGSE Fulbright Faculty Committee: English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Awards This program places grantees in schools overseas to supplement local English language instruction and to provide a native speaking presence in classrooms. The age and academic level of the students varies by country, ranging from kindergarten to university level. Each country has its own language requirements, so be sure to check level of language needed. You can apply to only one country in the ETA program. Offered in 140 countries. Open Study/Research Awards In this program you will design your own project and typically work with advisers at foreign universities. This grant takes longer to secure than a teaching grant because you are responsible not only for the design of the project but also for securing an affiliation with an institute of higher education or other research organization before applying. It is imperative that you read the host country's requirements. Each country varies by length, start date, focus, eligibility and affiliation. Offered in 75 countries. Those who are interested in applying for the English Teaching Assistance (ETA) or for the Open Study/Research Award as a HGSE-enrolled student or recent graduate should contact Rachel Gakenheimer in the HGSE Career Services Office for more information on timeline and important early September deadlines for the completed HGSE application process. Additional information can be found on the HGSE Career Services website. Refer to the Fulbright information for U.S. Citizens for details on the application process, informational webinars, and program updates. HGSE International Students should visit the Fulbright for Foreign Students website for information on availability of grants, deadlines, and eligibility requirements specific to their home countries. Your home nation's Fulbright Commission will provide assistance with the application process, as will the resident U.S. embassy. HGSE Doctoral Students can apply for the Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Program (DDRA) - Opportunity for doctoral research abroad for U.S. citizens who are planning a teaching career. Applications are processed through the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, their deadline is TBD. Harvard University Traveling Fellowships HGSE students must apply through the HGSE Financial Aid Office for several traveling fellowships administered by the University's Committee on General Scholarships (see below for information). Awards are made primarily to U.S. citizens. An interview with the faculty review committee may be required after the application has been submitted. Applicants must be currently enrolled, and have completed a full year in a graduate degree program at Harvard at the time of application. Application forms are available on CARAT. Specific deadlines and timelines are posted within the guidelines of our individual programs. Information on Harvard Traveling Fellowships In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice