Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Greece | Lecture by Prof. Cooley: 'Nowhere to Hide? Events Past Event CAA Greece | Lecture by Prof. Cooley: 'Nowhere to Hide? Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo November 3, 2021 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Europe/Athens Off-campus You are cordially invited to a lecture and discussion led by Prof. Alexander Cooley, Director, Harriman Institute, Columbia University The forced landing in May 2021 of a Ryanair flight by Belorusian authorities and coerced detention of a passenger who was a dissenting journalist has spotlighted the practice of transnational repression- the targeting of political exiles and opposition figures abroad by authoritarians and their security services. Why are these acts of transnational repression increasing in spaces like the European Union once considered absolutely safe and why has the international community failed to develop an effective response? Please join us for a conversation led by Alexander Cooley, the Claire Tow Professor of Political Science at Barnard College and Director of Columbia University’s Harriman Institute. Kindly note that: Masks are mandatory for guests at all times in indoor space Guests should keep distances in indoor and outdoor areas Also, due to Covid restrictions at Panteion University, only a limited number of guests will be allowed, and they will be chosen on a first register, first-serve basis. Should your plans change and you are unable to come, please make sure you cancel your participation through the link provided in the email you will receive upon registering. This will allow additional members to enjoy the lecture. Contact Information CAA Greece [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close