Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Finance Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Finance Major Apply Visit Request More Info Finance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance Build a solid foundation of technical and theoretical expertise and prepare to apply an in-demand finance skill set in your career with the Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Some of the most rewarding and challenging careers in the domestic and international corporate community demand a background in finance. The Finance BBA prepares students for exciting and challenging careers with three concentrations: Corporate Valuation, Investment Management, and Banking and Financial Services. Across these concentrations you will be exposed to an industry-oriented curriculum including The William C. Dunkelberg Owl Fund and Diamond Bond Fund (both student-run investment funds), have a broad range of electives to choose from, gain exposure to industry-relevant software (e.g., Factset, CapIQ and Bloomberg) and be provided valuable networking opportunities. As a Finance major you are also encouraged to become involved in the Temple Finance Association. This student organization offers the opportunity for Finance majors to attend career development seminars, connect with Fox alumni, gain real-life experience in investment work and meet business leaders in the finance industry. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Concentrations Choose between concentrations in Banking and Financial Services, Corporate Valuation and Investment Analysis to better prepare for your future career in finance. Each concentration has its own set of electives and a writing-intensive capstone. Banking and Financial Services Build knowledge and experience that can be applied in the financial services industry, including asset management, financial planning, and investment or commercial banking. Prepare for entry-level work as a credit, market risk or asset liability analyst. This concentration complements the Finance Major, helping students develop a basic understanding of the structure of financial markets, the role of regulation, and functional topics such as valuation, risk management and credit underwriting. Corporate Valuation Acquire in-depth knowledge of financial modeling, financial statement analysis, advanced valuation and credit analysis. This concentration complements the Finance Major by preparing students for careers in financial analysis or project management, banking, asset management, corporate treasury, consulting, or public finance. Investment Analysis Prepare for a career in regulatory compliance, quantitative asset management, masters programs in investment management or other graduate programs. Develop a strong grasp of basic econometrics applied to large financial databases. This concentration complements the Finance Major by blending quantitative rigor with "big data" experience. Discover modeling for investments and financial data analysis. Classes & Curriculum Students who pursue the Finance Major have the option of declaring one of three concentrations: Corporate Valuation, Investment Management, and Banking and Financial Services. Core courses you will take as part of the Bachelor of Business Administration BBA, regardless of your chosen concentration, include Intermediate Corporate Finance, International Finance, and Security Analysis and Portfolio Management. Your academic plan and choice of electives may vary depending on your concentration. Learn more about course requirements for each concentration. Related Graduate Degrees Accountancy MAcc Actuarial Science MS Business Administration MBA Business Analytics MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Statistics MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to finance students in the Fox School of Business. Ascend is a student organization that works to develop and foster leadership skills in Asian and Pacific Islander students interested in pursuing a career in accounting and finance. The Temple Finance Association focuses on exposing members to industry professionals through guest speakers across equity research, corporate finance, portfolio management, banking, wealth management and more. The mission of the Financial Planning Association is to help students cultivate an understanding of the latitude of topics in the personal financial planning and advising industry. The Temple University Investment Association allows students to put investment principles into practice. The association generates and distributes information regarding the William C. Dunkelberg Owl Fund portfolio, a student-managed investment fund. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-FIN-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Finance Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info