Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Apply to Lyle Lyle Home Apply to Lyle Visit Lyle Visit Lyle Lyle Engineering Academic Information Session Information sessions and tours for prospective students are offered Monday through Friday from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. and are not available during University Holidays. During this time, you will have the opportunity to meet with a member of the Lyle Recruitment & Retention Office and receive a tour of the engineering facilities. Register Virtual Lyle Engineering Academic Information Session Tune in Mondays at 10:00 a.m. to a live SMU information session led by a Lyle School of Engineering representative. Feel free to ask questions during the presentation and take a Virtual Campus Tour after the information session to complete your SMU visit. Register Daily Visits In addition to the Lyle Engineering Academic Information Session, daily visits through the SMU Admissions Office are offered Monday through Friday, allowing you to tailor activities to your interests, to get an authentic Mustang-life experience. Each daily visit includes a 30-minute information session, immediately followed by a one-hour campus tour. Other Special Days to Visit Campus Lyle Academic Spotlight Come see the Lyle School of Engineering through the eyes of students and alumni. Explore where students work on innovative projects in state-of-the-art facilities. Learn more about your intended major and the research opportunities you will have as an undergraduate or graduate student. Gain a better understanding of the admissions process and see how Lyle can help you achieve your career goals. More Info Mustang Days Spend a day on campus on Mustang Days, held during the summer preceding the fall of your senior year. Topics covered range from academic offerings and campus life to merit-based scholarships and financial aid, and includes a campus tour. More Info Springfest For 9th through 11th graders, Springfest is an introduction to SMU and the college admissions process. This one-day, on-campus program includes workshops, academic sessions and a campus tour. More Info Group Visits Arrange a visit for groups of 15 – 40 students in 9th through 12th grades, held most Mondays through Fridays. You can choose an admission information session, a campus tour, or both. More Info Elementary or middle school groups are welcome to bring students for a self-guided tour; however, we are not able to give an information session or guided tour at this time. Please do not register for a regular daily campus visit. Apply to Lyle Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus