Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation About About Georgia Tech History & Traditions Rankings Mission & Vision Our Values Ethics Visitor Information Institute Leadership Office and Department Directory Student, Staff, and Faculty Directory Careers at Tech Academics Academic Environment Majors and Degrees Colleges and Schools Continuing and Professional Education Georgia Tech Online Academic Calendar Admissions Prospective Students Admissions Overview Campus Tours Tuition and Costs Financial Aid & Scholarships Digital Swag Campus Life Explore the Main Campus Student Activities Athletics Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets Tickets Ramblin Wreck Store Research Research Areas Research News News & Events News Center Experts Guide Feature Stories Campus Calendar Media Contacts Apply Give Search Search form Enter your keywords Get the latest Covid-19 health information, operational status updates, and campus guidelines. You are here: GT Home Bachelor of Science in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences (EAS) Undergraduate Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Degree Overview Georgia Tech’s undergraduate EAS degree program uniquely integrates programs in environmental science, meteorology, and solid Earth science. Our program has key benefits: Flexible degree options. Customized degrees to fit your specific interests and career goals. Rigorous quantitative and computational experience. Preparation for scientific careers in industry and academia. Undergraduate internship and research opportunities. A chance to travel the world and earn credits while undertaking projects at prestigious organizations, such as the National Weather Service, CNN, NASA-JPL, and participating in international field research campaigns. As an EAS major, you will develop basic foundations in Earth, planetary, and atmospheric sciences, and will develop an emphasis in either meteorology, environmental sciences, or Earth sciences. You will develop a strong understanding of the Earth beneath our feet, the planets above us, the oceans that surround us, and the atmospheric processes that affect our weather and climate. Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Degree Concentrations and Options Concentrations Customize your curriculum to match your specific interests and career plans. The EAS undergraduate bachelor’s degree offers three concentrations: Meteorology/Atmospheric Science. Environmental Science. Solid Earth Science. Options Increase your competitiveness for jobs and graduate school by adding a designation to your degree. Pursue an in-depth, long-term research experience that culminates in an Undergraduate Thesis. Learn more about the Research Option. Prepare for a global career. Learn more about the International Plan. Build a business perspective into your degree. Learn about the Business Option. Get a leg up on becoming a scientist. Learn about our five-year B.S./M.S. Program. B.S. Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Requirements The Bachelor’s in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences degree program requirements include general core classes; technical courses that provide a strong background in mathematics; technical electives to explore areas in greater depth; courses involving undergraduate research, and free electives. View suggested eight-semester schedules. Course Highlights Habitable Planet: An introductory course describing planetary formation processes, the development of habitability, and major events through time. Meteorological Analysis: Work with industry experts to analyze weather data and create real-time forecasts. Environmental Field Methods: Field-based observations with modern tools, techniques, and data analysis, for societal context. Energy, Environment, and Society: An interdisciplinary project-based course blending current events, guest speakers, and discussion about 21st century energy issues. View all of the B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences requirements and course descriptions Rankings and Awards Georgia Tech’s School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences faculty members are frequently recognized for their outstanding contributions to their fields. This includes: 13 fellowships in national and international professional societies. 17 Young Investigator and Early Career Awards. 46 awards from professional societies and national or international agencies. See the full list of research awards What Can I Do with a Degree in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences? The undergraduate EAS program prepares students for graduate study or immediate employment in fields such as: Meteorology. Air Quality. Environmental Chemistry. Exploration Geophysics. Geologic Hazards. Environmental Impact Assessment. Oceanography. Climate Science. Planetary Science. What Are Georgia Tech Graduates Doing Now? Broadcast Meteorologist. Environmental Scientist. Geophysicist. Air Quality and Climate Change Planner. High School Science Teacher. Water Resource Specialist. International Environmental Protection Specialist. Assistant Professor. Research Technologist Meet School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences alumni Common Job Titles and Average Salaries Atmospheric Scientist (including Meteorologist): $92,070 Environmental Scientist/Specialist: $69,400 Geoscientist: $89,850 Postsecondary Teacher: $76,000 Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistic Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Research Opportunities Participating in research is a very exciting part of your undergraduate experience and is highly encouraged. How to get involved in undergraduate EAS research. Research for credit or pay. Bachelor of Science with Research Option. Beyond the Classroom Get involved! As an EAS student, you may be interested in joining the Association of Environmental Engineers and Scientists, Students Organizing for Sustainability, Sigma-Gamma-Epsilon, or STORM (STudents Observing and Researching Meteorology). Get a leg up and learn about undergraduate research opportunities in your first year. Apply to reside in the Science and Mathematics Research Training Living Learning Community. Gain employment experience and benefit from real-world experience in your field. Learn more about the Co-op Program and internships. Learn more about study abroad opportunities led by College of Sciences faculty. Check out our EAS Facebook Page! Stories from the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Making Connections and Finding Opportunities Bridging the Divide Between Public Administration and the Environment Undergraduate Researcher of Landscape and Early Life Evolution Laughing Gas May Have Helped Warm Early Earth and Given Breath to Life Related Degrees B.S./M.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Minor in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Related Websites College of Sciences School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Next Steps Subscribe to the Prospective Student e-newsletter Register for the "It's All About Science & Math" information session Learn How to Apply Apply Now Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Google Plus Instagram Flickr Pinterest RSS Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites & Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Savannah Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student & Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Resources Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Student Life Scholarships & Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, & Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising & Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources Office of the Provost TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Government & Community Partners Professional Education Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login