Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Office of the President About Mission & Strategic Plan University Governance Communications Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Mission and Plan Key Metrics Take Action Review Presidential Communications Meet Key Leaders Contact the Office of the President Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Office of the President Mission and Plan University of Memphis Strategic Plan Leading through Innovation - 2019-2023 Mission We provide the highest quality education by focusing on research and service benefiting local and global communities. The University is classified as “Carnegie R1” or "Doctoral: Very High Research Activity and Community Engaged" per the Carnegie Classification for Institutions of Higher Learning. With a focus on research and service benefitting communities locally and across the globe, we are home to nationally designated centers of excellence in cybersecurity research and education, transportation workforce development, mobile health data and five Tennessee centers of research excellence. The UofM is dedicated to providing the highest quality of education to more than 21,500 students through 13 colleges and schools that offer more than 180 academic degree programs at the undergraduate, masters, doctoral and professional levels. The UofM awards approximately 4,500 degrees annually. Talented and innovative faculty have developed 31 undergraduate and 38 graduate programs in various disciplines that are ranked in the top 25 nationally. Our metropolitan setting has enabled us to build a nationally recognized internship program that facilitates the placement of undergraduate and graduate students throughout the community in nonprofit and for-profit organizations that specialize in healthcare, government, transportation and logistics, music and entertainment, medical devices, banking and the arts. Vision The University of Memphis is an internationally recognized, urban public research university preparing students for success in a diverse, innovative, global environment. Values Accountability > Accountability Integrity, transparency, excellence and the highest standards govern everything we do. Collaboration > Collaboration We seek partnerships both within and beyond the University to enhance our actions and our outcomes. Diversity and Inclusion > Diversity and Inclusion Everyone is respected, included and given the opportunity to excel. Innovation > Innovation We consistently seek a better way, and we embrace challenges. Service > Service Our purpose is to benefit our students and society through knowledge and effort. Student Success > Student Success We provide every student with the opportunity to excel. Highest Priorities Student Success, Access and Affordability Academic Excellence Research and Innovation Diversity and Inclusion Community, Alumni and External Collaborations Brand Enhancement and Global Visibility Sustainability Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.