Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Master of Public Health Home About The Curriculum The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees Health Equity Scholars Site Navigation Home About Mission & Values People Competencies MPH Student Handbook (PDF) The Curriculum Interdisciplinary Concentration Addictions Concentration Epidemiology Concentration Global Health Concentration Health Behavior Concentration Health Services Concentration Maternal and Child Health Concentration Mindfulness Concentration The Internship The Thesis Dual Degrees MPH/MPA Five-Year Undergraduate/MPH UG/MPH Program Requirements Sample class schedule for UG/MPH Five-Year MD/MPH Brown-Tougaloo Partnership Health Equity Scholars The Internship Ellis Silva, MPH “I completed a public health internship in Uganda to provide access to health services and education. My education at Brown has taught me the importance of thinking globally and upstream. Whether it’s working in Providence or East Africa, I will take what I’ve learned here at Brown wherever I go.” Read about Ellis’ internship All MPH students are required to complete an Applied Public Health Experience (APHE). The MPH Program provides enrolled students with a variety of resources to connect with rewarding and interesting applied public health practice experiences. In addition to meeting with academic core advisors and other faculty conducting research in specific public health topics, students also confer with the Assistant Director of Applied Learning in order to learn more about opportunities that align with each student’s public health area of interest and future career goals. Parts of the Applied Public Health Experience (APHE): Components of the Internship 1. An approved Applied Public Health Experience Plan: Potential APHE opportunities are explored during the fall semester and further formulated during the spring semester of the student’s first year. The APHE plan includes information on the APHE organization, site, and work to be conducted, as well as a description of the final deliverable products. The APHE should have a community-based component and requires the student to work with an inter-professional team during the experience. 2. An APHE requires the following: Students must complete at least 145 hours at a pre-approved APHE organization/agency, which can be paid or unpaid. This is equivalent to approximately one month (4 weeks) of full-time (8 hours per day) work. Students can complete the APHE longitudinally during the first academic year; during the summer between the first and second years; or a combination of these time periods. The APHE should expose the student to real world public health issues and other professions outside of public health that work to address public health issues. APHE activities may include (depending on the topic and the qualifications of the student) attending meetings; participating in ongoing activities; planning, implementing and evaluating short-term projects; participating in health education and outreach; taking part in analytical discussions and/or delivering health related services. 3. Two final products: The APHE must include two final deliverable products. The products may include, as examples, designing a public health intervention, conducting a quality assessment, developing health education materials, writing a communication brief; completing a research analysis/report, or developing a website. Students must consult with their respective APHE supervisor/mentor and with the Assistant Director of Applied Learning to be sure that their proposed products are acceptable for the educational purposes of the APHE. The final products need to demonstrate the achievement of at least three MPH Foundational Competencies and/or MPH Concentration Competencies that have been identified by the student. The products should be of practical utility to the organization/agency. 4. A poster: Students must design a poster that showcases the student’s APHE and final products. Students must present their APHE posters at a poster session held in the fall semester of the second year of the MPH Program as a part of the PHP2072 course. Sample Internship Experiences Our students’ internship experiences are as diverse as their interests: Sample Internship Project Location Evaluation for Standard and Mobile Health Applications Bangladesh Microbial Translocation and Schistosomiasis Brazil Using Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy to Assess White Matter Neuroinflammation Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Developing an Instrument in Assessing Financial Toxicity in Multiple Sclerosis Center for Gerontology Technological Solutions for the Diagnosis of Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome Center for the Study of Children at Risk Retaining Transgender Women in HIV Care: Best Practices in the Field The Fenway Institute Evaluation of Academic Detailing Visits with Top Opioid Prescribers in Rhode Island Rhode Island Department of Health Efficiency of Nursing Home-Emergency Department Transfers and Quality of Communication Review Rhode Island Hospital Emergency Department Supportive Housing Models for Medicaid Program Steward Healthcare Network Co-Facilitator of Teens Empowered to Advocate for Community Health TEACH Community Health International Organization for Migration Practices Regarding Assisted Voluntary Return & Reintegration for Migrants with Health Needs World Health Organization Sample Local Internship Sites Students may complete an approved internship locally, nationally, or globally. In Rhode Island, our students have access to organizations and government agencies—from the insurance commissioner's office to the lieutenant governor's office, from the Department of Health to the seven local hospitals affiliated with Brown's Alpert Medical School—that are key to improving population health. Comprising 1,000 square miles and 1 million people, the smallest state in the union is manageable in scope while being economically and ethnically diverse; it's the ideal place not only to collect data, but also to evaluate interventions and understand why they work. Sample local internship sites: Government Agencies Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities, and Hospitals Rhode Island Department of Corrections Rhode Island Department of Health Non-profit Organizations Community Care Alliance Day One Sexual Assault and Trauma Resource Center The Fenway Health Center (Boston) Green & Healthy Homes Greenhouse Social Enterprise HealthCentric Advisors House of Hope Community Development Corporation Institute for the Study and Practice of Nonviolence Maternova, Inc. Narragansett Indian Tribal Lands Neighborhood Health Plan of Rhode Island PACE Organization of Rhode Island Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights Providence & Woonsocket Public High Schools The Providence Center Rhode Island Foundation Rhode Island Free Clinic Rhode Island Hospital Rhode Island Public Health Institute Center for the Study of Children at Risk Steward Healthcare Network Walden Behavioral Care The Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute Admissions Admissions Calendar Request Information Tuition & Funding Career Outcomes Career Advising The Thesis The Curriculum Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health (MPH) Brown University 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top