Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Inclusion and Equity Amid the COVID-19 Crisis The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity is committed to maintaining an inclusive environment for the entire Brown community during this difficult time. We will be working with our partners across campus to ensure we continue our collective work of promoting diversity and equity - now primarily through virtual interactions. We must actively seek to promote empathy and understanding to reduce stigma associated with the current coronavirus pandemic. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention notes on its COVID-19 webpage that fear and anxiety about a disease can lead to stigma that results in the mistreatment of individuals. One of the best ways to address stigma is to remain informed about the facts related to the pandemic by visiting the CDC webpage and Brown’s COVID-19 website. As we continue to manage most operations remotely, including the moving of Spring 2020 courses to remote instruction, we are writing to remind the Brown community of the following: We call on all staff, faculty and students to promote an atmosphere of respect and facilitate a sense of belonging in all interactions, whether virtual or in person. Acts of hate and unlawful discrimination or harassment have no place in our community. If you believe you have experienced bias, or unlawful discrimination or harassment at Brown (on campus or virtually), there are several resources in place to support you. Visit the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Incident Reporting page for information on resources and the process to report a bias incident or how to file a complaint of unlawful discrimination or harassment. You can also report bias to the Department of Public Safety (DPS) by calling 401-863-3322. Additional information about reporting bias or a hate crime is also available on the DPS webpage. Please review the Brown Statement on Bias and Hate and the statement on civil rights during COVID-19 issued by the Rhode Island Attorney General. For general questions about diversity, equity and inclusion at Brown, please contact us at [email protected] What we do: Compliance & Oversight We monitor the University's compliance with the laws that govern colleges and universities in our pursuit of diversity and inclusion, as well as compliance with Brown's own policies that advance diversity. Learn more >>> Monitor Brown’s Progress Our office monitors the data and analysis that help measure our progress on diversity and inclusion benchmarks across the University. We also track the implementation of the action steps in Brown's diversity plans. Learn more >>> Offer Support & Resources Consider us your guide. We support and coordinate diversity and inclusion efforts across campus. We maintain important partnerships in this consulting, guiding and stewarding role. Learn more >>> Support Action Plans Brown's diversity and inclusion action plans are focused on concrete, achievable steps. We're here to support academic and administrative units across campus in meeting diversity goals. Learn more >>> Follow Progress on the Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan View Data on Campus Climate, Diversity and Inclusion 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan (DIAP) Community Awards Pathways to Diversity and Inclusion (DIAP) Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat