Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Facilities & Laboratories State of the Art The University is home to world-class research facilities that are available to researchers across disciplines and departments. Featured Facilities Confocal Microscopy Facility . Including the Nikon Center of Excellence, this facility provides the highest light-microscope resolution obtainable, which can image specimens and intact samples tagged with fluorescent probes such as developing fish embryos or sections from the brain and other tissues. Read more Genomics Core Facility . Housed within the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, these high-throughput sequencing technologies are equipped for all aspects of microarray labeling, hybridization and data acquisition, sequencing-library preparation, experimental-design consultation, and data analysis. Read more Imaging and Analysis Center . One of the nation's most advanced materials-characterization facilities, the IAC offers state-of-the-art instrumentation for materials preparation, computer simulation and image processing for research and education. Read more Proteomics and Mass Spectrometry Core Facility . Affiliated with the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, this facility houses spectrometers capable of exploring the structure and chemical properties of molecules, and offers training and assistance in running samples and interpreting results. Read more Research Computing . Research computing provides computational and visualization hardware, software, system administration, programming and visualization support for Princeton faculty, researchers and students in the natural sciences, engineering, social sciences and humanities. Read more Nanotech Fabrication & Microfluidics . The Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials provides equipment and facilities — including a 5,000-foot clean room — for fabricating devices and structures for electronic, photonic, micro-electro mechanical system and biological applications. Read more Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice