News Events Careers Contact Visiting BTI Explore About BTI Strategy Strategic Plan Decadal Vision Close Leadership Honoring David Stern’s Leadership Senior Leadership Team Board of Directors Scientific Advisory Board Leadership Resources Close Events & Programs Art at BTI Breaking Ground Discussion Series Close News Directory Visiting BTI For the Media Close Our Research Connect with Faculty Gary Blissard Carmen Catala Zhangjun Fei Jim Giovannoni Maria Harrison Michelle Heck Georg Jander Magdalena Julkowska Dan Klessig Fay-Wei Li Greg Martin Lukas Mueller Andrew Nelson Eric Richards Frank Schroeder David Stern Joyce Van Eck Close Research Areas Connect with Faculty Gary Blissard Carmen Catalá Zhangjun Fei Jim Giovannoni Maria Harrison Georg Jander Magdalena Julkowska Fay-Wei Li Greg Martin Lukas Mueller Andrew Nelson Eric Richards Frank Schroeder Aleksandra Skirycz David Stern Joyce Van Eck Close Physalis Project Computational Biology Center Technology Transfer HighFive Cell Line Close Facilities & Resources Center for Plant Biotechnology Research Plant Cell Imaging Center Plant Growth Facility Mass Spec Facility Nicotiana benthamiana Research Resources Close BTI Publications Close Education & Outreach Alliance For Science Plant Science Research Network Postgraduate Society Internships Undergraduate Research Internships Apply Undergraduate Research Projects & Faculty Program Info (&FAQ) Summer Intern Portal Intern Alumni Profiles Close High School Research Internships Apply High School Research Projects & Faculty Program info (&FAQ) Summer Intern Portal Intern Intern Profiles Close High School Workforce Advantage Program Close Teacher Resources Lesson Plans Presentation Resources Past Programs Close Close Get Involved Give Corporate Sponsorship Alumni Network Annual Reports Contact the Institute Careers Close Staff Hub Technology Transfer and Licensing Making an Impact Available Technologies Resources for Researchers Start-up Creation Contact Making an Impact Available Technologies Resources for Researchers Start-up Creation Our Team DISCOVERIES MAKING AN IMPACT Plant research is in our DNA, and we take great pride in the broader impact our researchers are having on society. TECHNOLOGIES AVAILABLE FOR LICENSING Every technology selected for licensing offers a true value proposition to your company. START-UP CREATION Do you have an entrepreneurial mind and an exciting new technology? The New Business Development Task Force provides guidance and resources to help you succeed. RESOURCES FOR RESEARCHERS Read more about protecting Intellectual Property, funding translational research and MTAs. Discoveries Making an Impact • Vaccine and other protein production in insect cell lines • Natural small molecules in plant and human health • Plant disease resistance • Plant and bacterial proteins in innate and effector-triggered immunity • Salicylic acid pathway for systemic acquired resistance • Plant insect resistance—plant genes and small signaling molecules • Plant-based vaccines Follow us on LinkedIn for recent news BTI, home of the HighFive™ cell lines. Dr. Robert Granados was looking for ways to defend crops from the Cabbage Looper. During his research he made an unexpected discovery. The HighFive cell line and newer sub-clones free of nodavirus are a popular tool for recombinant protein production. BTI is the exclusive owner of the proprietary HighFive cell line and related sub-clones. Contact us to inquire about cell lines available for testing and request commercial-use licenses. LEARN MORE For licensing inquires contact licensing@btiscience.org Technologies Available for Licensing INSECT CELL LINES FOR PROTEIN PRODUCTION BTI is the exclusive owner of the HighFive cell line HighFive and related virus-free cell lines (Tnao38; Tnms42) are ideal for effective recombinant protein expression The virus-free cell lineTnms42-sf was adapted to serum-free growth in large bioreactors LEARN MORE INCREASED RESISTANCE TO ABIOTIC STRESS IN CORN The Raf1 technology improves photosynthesis, growth and recovery from abiotic stresses LEARN MORE INCREASED RESISTANCE TO BACTERIAL PATHOGENS IN PLANTS The Ptr1 technology can be used to confer resistance to bacterial speck, wilt and spot disease in tomatoes, peppers, potatoes, tobacco plants, and possibly a broader range of important crops The technology can be applied using a cisgenic approach, editing of the endogenous pseudogene or plant breeding LEARN MORE SMALL MOLECULES AGAINST PARASITIC WORMS Licensing opportunity for human and animal use Small molecule compounds that control mammal-pathogenic nematodes. US Patent: 9,487,551 Resources for Researchers Protecting Your Intellectual Property STEP 1 – YOU HAVE MADE A DISCOVERY WITH TRANSLATIONAL POTENTIAL? CONTACT THE TECH TRANSFER OFFICE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE Download a pre-disclosure form here. Avoid public disclosures from that point on (What is prior art?) How much data do I need? Scientific fields may be divided into “unpredictable” and “predictable” arts. The degree of required disclosure is commensurate with the perceived degree of predictability in the field of your invention. There is no general requirement that working examples or experimental data must be disclosed, but they can reduce concerns regarding predictability and sometimes may be necessary. STEP 2 – TECHNOLOGY EVALUATION You will work with the Technology Transfer Office to: Determine the best approach to protect your discovery Identify the commercial potential of your discovery Review translational R&D funding options Discuss out-licensing options and startup creation STEP 3 – PROTECTING YOUR DISCOVERY The Technology Transfer Office will take the lead to support the translational process, but you will be actively involved in the process. It starts with protecting your discovery. If the translational process is moving forward, download a disclosure form here. Additional Resources https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/35 https://henry.law/blog/what-is-prior-art/ https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587-020-0447-x Funding Your Translational Research Small business grants SBIR/STTR grants represent a flexible and well funded program that can help your startup or help you partner with a small business. Technologies that are still at a very early stage, as well technologies that may never generate high profits but would otherwise benefit society (e.g., environmental or ecological benefits) struggle to attract investors. The SBIR/STTR program can support these technologies. https://www.sbir.gov/about Please contact the Technology Transfer Office for more information. Industry grants Bayer – Grants4Targets Crop Science Corteva – Open Innovation “Halo Science” register to receive notifications for funding opportunities from Bayer Crop Science, Corteva, Valent BioSciences and others” Foundations – Agriculture grants and collaborations Gates Ag One Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research NSF Partnerships for Innovation The Partnerships for Innovation Program offers researchers from all NSF-funded disciplines of science and engineering the opportunity to perform translational research and technology development, catalyze partnerships and accelerate the transition of discoveries from the laboratory to the marketplace for societal benefit. Material Transfer Agreements When Requesting Materials Forward the MTA provided to you to BTI’s Technology Transfer Office for review The MTA is for your lab use only – do not share the material outside your lab Be sure to acknowledge providers in your publications When Shipping Materials Ask your Project Leader to contact the Technology Transfer Office if any of these apply: The material is shipping to a for-profit organization The material is covered by a patent or has commercial value The material is potentially harmful to humans or the environment The material could be used in animals or humans The material is licensed or under an in-coming MTA Who signs MTAs? BTI Scientist = Project Leader Authorized Official = please contact the Technology Transfer Office Training Opportunities in Technology Transfer Take graduate courses from the NIH Foundation for Advanced Education in the Sciences and gain advanced knowledge in patenting for scientists, technology licensing and biotech company development. These courses can be audited. https://catalog.faes.org/technology-transfer-business-and-industry You can also contact us to inquire about other ways to learn about skills and careers in technology transfer. CTL Internship Internships with Cornell Center for Technology Licensing – Open to Cornell STEM graduate students Start-up Creation How BTI supports the creation of start-ups interested in licensing BTI technologies: Protecting Intellectual Property Technology Review Business Planning funding Strategy Connecting with Local & Regional Resources Contact BTI’s Director of New Business Development for more information. Current Ventures Location: Pasadena, CA CEO: Andrea Choe, PhD Key Technology: Small compounds against auto-immune diseases and diabetes. Location: McGovern Center, Cornell University, Ithaca NY CEO: Jay Farmer, PhD Key Technology: Small compounds promoting plant growth and enhancing plant immunity Website: https://ascribebio.com/ Our Team For licensing inquires contact licensing@btiscience.org Julien Fey Director of Technology Transfer jpf23@cornell.edu Kelli Monce Technology Transfer Specialist ksm84@cornell.edu Paul Debbie Director of Research, Director of New Business Development ppd2@cornell.edu Connect with the Office of Technology Transfer and Licensing on LinkedIn! Follow Follow Follow Follow Support BTI Science! Contact: Boyce Thompson Institute 533 Tower Rd. Ithaca, NY 14853 607.254.1234 contact@btiscience.org Copyright © 2022 | Boyce Thompson Institute | All Rights Reserved