Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases virtual tour New Online Experience Provides 360-Degree Virtual Tour of University of Memphis Campus July 19, 2018 - Prospective students who want to check out the University of Memphis can now do it on their computers, tablets or mobile phones through a new virtual tour of campus. Viewers will enjoy an immersive online experience with 360-degree panoramic media, interactive hotspots and multimedia as they explore UofM buildings, academics, housing options and student life. Four comprehensive tour experiences, created by New York-based YouVisit, take future Tigers and other visitors on a stroll through the main campus, the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law downtown, UofM Lambuth in Jackson, Tenn., and some on-campus housing options. The tours can be viewed through virtual reality headsets for a real-life feel. Visitors can look inside a nursing lab in the Community Health Building to see the hands-on training students receive in state-of-the-art facilities; take a seat on stage for a performance by the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Chamber Orchestra; go behind the scenes with the Herff College of Engineering robotics team as they test a robot for a competition; and experience life as an on-campus resident. In the fast-paced and competitive environment of college recruiting, the University of Memphis has partnered with YouVisit to engage domestic and international students in a virtual campus tour with the goal of increasing campus visits, applications and enrollment. "The University of Memphis virtual tour is an exciting new resource," said Eric Stokes, UofM director of Admissions and Orientation. "The interactive tour provides a high-quality virtual experience for prospective undergraduate and graduate students. This resource is timely as it expands access for non-local students, and aligns with President (M. David) Rudd's goal to increase overall enrollment, including out-of-state and international. We hope the virtual tour will drive students' interest to come see the campus for themselves." The tour is available in English and Spanish and can be viewed on a computer or on a phone at Virtual Tours. CONTACT Chuck Gallina | 901.678.1756 l cgallina@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.