Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information UW Alumni Tours Home Alumni Travel Traveling with us Traveling with us Close Menu Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Why travel with us? With UW Alumni Tours curiosity doesn’t end with your degree. We welcome all alumni and friends to engage in immersive lifelong learning that honors the culture and communities of the world. Join us as we create meaningful connections, respecting all that makes us different and unique. Since 1975, UW Alumni Tours has offered the most enriching and engaging adventures in popular and lesser known destinations around the globe. Our trips are memorable, and so are our travelers. The unique bonds formed while traveling are unlike any other, and the lifelong friendships that are forged between strangers who share a common connection make us proud. Travel with educators. Our goal is to create opportunities for immersive lifelong learning. To do this we vet & work with tour operators to select specific, high quality group travel experiences. Our tour operators specialize in educational travel. Most trips feature destination-specific lectures by local experts, UW faculty or faculty from a partner university. You’ll return knowing that you really learned from your travel. Do more and worry less. Our travelers tell us that UW Alumni Tours are a great value. Our Tour Operators manage the transportation, lodging and detailed itinerary so you can make the most of your time and investment. Whether it’s a small group land-based tour, or a luxurious and scenic cruise, we’ve done the homework so you don’t have to, taking the worry and hassle out of planning your next vacation. And when possible, a UW host will accompany your trip to provide additional guidance and support. So sit back, relax and enjoy an enriching and engaging adventure with fellow alumni and friends. Bring or meet friends. Our group tours are an opportunity to celebrate your connection to the UW. Participants are not limited to UW graduates: family members and friends are always welcome. Single travelers, too, frequently book with us. More than half of our travelers have toured with us before—our community is just that, a friendly environment for new experiences and bridging cultures. Did you know a majority of our tours are exclusive to UW alumni and friends? How to make a reservation. All reservations for UW tours are made through the trip’s tour operator. When a tour is open for reservations, the tour page on our website will either have a ‘Book Online’ button (which will take you to the tour operator’s website) or a phone number for you to call directly – just be sure to let them know you’re with the UW. Please note that all Odysseys Unlimited reservations are processed over the phone. A representative will also be able to answer all your questions about pricing, itinerary details, and travel arrangements. Odysseys Unlimited – 1-888-370-6765 Go Next – 1-888-918-8954 Gohagan & Co – 800-922-3088 Orbridge – 866-639-0079 AHI Travel – 877-223-9274 Home Travel COVID-19 Updates Traveler Testimonials Upcoming Tours Tour Operators Traveling with us FAQs & Resources Travel insurance Meet the team & Contact us Friends & Family Welcome! You don’t have to be a UW graduate to travel with UW Alumni Tours! UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA