Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Marketing and Communications Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Marketing and Communications Meet the Team Departments Marketing Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Creative Services Web Marketing & User Experience Communication Media Relations Digital Production Social Media Guidelines & Policies Requests Resources Publications UH Home University Marketing and Communications Guidelines & Policies News Media Policy Guidelines & Policies Bulk Email Policies & Procedure Brand Guidelines Brand Management, Licensing & Trademarks Policies Editorial Style Guide Email Signature Guidelines Filming at UH Inclusive Language Guide Mobile App Guidelines News Media Policy Paid Online Media Photo Release Guidelines Push Notifications Guidelines Social Media Policy Social Media Profile Guidelines Statements UH Major Awards Announcement Guidelines Web Accessibility Standards Web Best Practices Web Style Guidelines News Media Policy The official UH System Media Policy can be found as SAM No. 01.H.02 on the UH Policies and Procedures website. Please refer to the SAM for all official communication. Purpose To provide clear, concise communications, all media inquiries should be channeled through the Office of University Media Relations. This policy was established to describe the University's position with respect to interacting with news media representatives. For the purpose of this policy, news media shall refer to representatives of newspapers, magazines, newsletters, online publications, television and radio. Policy An employee or department that seeks to publicize a program, event or achievement should contact the Office of University Media Relations. University Media Relations has access to numerous news media contacts and will work with employees to coordinate publicity or visibility for programs, events or newsworthy issues. It is the responsibility of the Office of University Media Relations to initiate and/or respond to news media requests and to manage those interactions. When an employee or department is contacted by the news media, he/she should notify University Media Relations immediately, before providing any information or responding to questions. Faculty who are directly contacted by news media for comment as an expert on topics relating to their areas of study or expertise are encouraged to coordinate through the Office of University Media Relations, but are not required to. Communications with news media on behalf of the University or in a manner that officially represents or appears to represent the University must be conducted by administrators and staff as designated by the Office of University Media Relations. While on University property, news media representatives should, if necessary and appropriate, be accompanied by a University Media Relations staff member or a University employee designated by the Office of University Media Relations. To gain access to the residence halls, news media representatives must be accompanied by a University Media Relations staff member or a University employee designated by the Office of University Media Relations. UH complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding the retention and release of personal and/or educational records of all current employees and students, and complies with all privacy and security laws including FERPA. If an event attracts news media interest, all press releases and statements to the news media will be routed through and disseminated by the Office of University Media Relations. It is the responsibility of each department head to implement procedures to comply with this policy, while also ensuring that academic freedom, free inquiry and freedom of expression within the academic community are respected and observed. The University obtains authorization from those whose photographs are taken with the intent to publicize the University. Their consent allows the University to incorporate these photographs in situations appropriate to the image of an academic institution including release to the news media -- and to publish likenesses in UH’s publications, on its website, in videos, on CDs, or in other recruitment or promotional materials including paid advertising. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies