Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences Menu Search TTU Human Sciences CCFCS Curriculum Login The Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences Digital Curriculum | Featured Products | Testimonials Welcome Welcome to The Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences at Texas Tech. We have a long history in the College of Human Sciences and celebrate over 50 years of continued quality curriculum development for family and consumer sciences (formerly known as home economics) educators. Please browse our website to learn more about the teaching resources, products, materials, and professional development resources we offer teachers. We take pride in being the only curriculum center in the United States that specializes in curriculum, materials, and other resources for family and consumer sciences and home economics teachers. Our materials are used across the United States and in several other countries. We work closely with the faculty and students in the Family and Consumer Sciences Education program at Texas Tech University and house a library rich with resources for students working on lesson plans and unit plans, as they work toward a career in family and consumer sciences education. As a Tier 1 research university, one of our goals is to form stronger collaboration within the College of Human Sciences, across campus, and across the nation. We look forward to maintaining national recognition as producers of quality curriculum and materials for family and consumer sciences. If questions should arise as you visit our website, please feel free to contact any of us here at the Center. Digital Curriculum As the only curriculum center in the nation specializing in the development of curriculum materials for family and consumer sciences (formerly known as home economics), our staff works to support educators with a broad range of resources: online, print, multimedia, and professional development training. We understand the complexities of education that FCS educators face today. Your hard work in the classroom inspires us to create curricula that keep you at the top of your game. All 36 digital curricula follow the same format allowing for easier navigation from lesson to lesson. We provide you with all of the elements needed to make lessons rigorous and relevant to your classes. Learn More » Featured Products Making Sense of Me Workbook Diana Ketterman is a mental health educator, speaker, and author. Dianna believes that everyone deals with depression and anxiety at some point in life and has written two books to help educators reach students. Behind the Mask: Dealing with Anger, Grief, and Rejection is a workbook for ages 13 to adult. The lessons are targeted as a high school curriculum to be used across the board for all students. The purpose is to help students learn the importance of being authentic with others and themselves. It teaches the reader to identify what it is they need, and how to ask for help in getting their needs met. Making Sense of Me contains 13 lessons for teachers and parents to begin the conversation about our environment, senses, memories, emotions, and thoughts. These lessons are targeted to children ages 7-13. Ready to order? Call us: (806)742-3029 Today's Life Skills Some things do not change. There may be new courses, new standards, and new students, but family and consumer sciences fundamentals remain rock solid. The materials in Today's Life Skills can be incorporated into a variety of courses, or they can be used for youth groups or any population needing basic life skills. Each module found in the eight units includes background information for the teacher, teaching strategies organized by age of audience, learning activities and answers, and reproducible teaching aids. The accompanying CD includes PowerPoint slides for each unit. No. 1097......$45.00 Learn More » Wait, How Do I Write This Email? Wait, How Do I Write This Email? is a must-have resource for high school students! Communications expert, Danny Rubin, provides more than 100 critical email/document templates for networking, job search, and LinkedIn in this comprehensive guide. $16.99 Learn More » Testimonials If you haven't invested in the CCFCS digital curriculum you are missing the opportunity to give your students a technology-rich and rigorous curriculum. The online program is easy to use and has a tremendous amount of ready-to-use slide presentations and handouts. I would never have had the time to research all the relevant websites that are referenced or hyperlinked while trying to implement our new courses. For me - a huge bang for my buck. - Sharon Pelzel, Aubrey High School I just wanted to let you know that I have been using the digital curriculum on a very regular basis. I have found the lessons to be interesting and thorough. I like that the handouts and materials are ready to print and use. It's very convenient to have power points, especially for my students who have modifications and need to listen and view the info and not write it down. - Linda Corbell, Del Rio High School Thank you! Love this curriculum - excited I have something for Counseling and Mental Health class! - Carolyn Schlueter, Azle High School I couldn't have made it through the year without your digital curriculum. - Edith Bujnoch, Premont ISD Notice of Non-Discrimination Contact Contact UsContact Contact Us Contact Us Connect with LinkedIn on LinkedInConnect with LinkedIn on LinkedIn LinkedIn EventsEvents Upcoming Events Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences Like Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences on FacebookLike Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences on Facebook Follow Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences on twitterFollow Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences on twitter Address P.O. Box 41161 Texas Tech University Lubbock, Texas 79409-1161 Phone 806.742.3029 Email ccfcs@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 14, 2022 11:28 AM Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences About Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences About Back Overview Center Library Contact Resources Curriculum Center for Family and Consumer Sciences Resources Back Teaching Resources Scope and Sequence FCCLA to Cluster Integration Professional Associations Texas CTE FCS Certification Professional Development Catalog Digital Curriculum Curriculum Login Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index