Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Science Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Directory Research Resources News/Events Graduate Students The Department of Biological Sciences at Clemson University offers M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Biological Sciences, Environmental Toxicology, and Microbiology, with emphases that comprise the vast range of research areas available within the department. An online M.S., designed specifically for teachers and other science educators interested in biological sciences, is also available. The goals of our programs are to develop scientists with: expertise in a specific research area strong interdisciplinary skills in research design critical thinking communication skills DEGREES OFFERED Use the buttons below to learn more about the degrees offered through the Department of Biological Sciences. M.S./Ph.D. in Biological Sciences M.S./Ph.D. in Environmental Toxicology M.S./Ph.D. in Microbiology Online M.S. for Science Educators INVITATION TO APPLY Watch a video from Bill Baldwin, professor and graduate program coordinator of biological sciences. WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT As part of the graduate program, you can expect the support you need to find success in your studies. Here are six ways the Department of Biological Sciences works with its grad students. Mentoring Graduate students in the Department of Biological Sciences will receive one-on-one training from their adviser and other faculty members chosen from inside and outside the department. Research Biological sciences is a broad, interdisciplinary field that joins many elements within the life sciences. Our graduate programs in Biological Sciences, Environmental Toxicology, and Microbiology represent that scope, with opportunities for innovative, collaborative research. Graduate Faculty Research Interests Courses Class offerings within the department reflect the breadth of expertise among our faculty, including courses in microbiology, molecular biology, cell biology, evolution, ecology and organismal biology. Additional courses are available from related departments on campus. Students pursue tailored, detailed plans of study that suit their individual career goals. Plan of Study - Biological Sciences Plan of Study - Environmental Toxicology Plan of Study - Microbiology Professional Development Whether writing a grant, presenting at a scientific conference, designing an experiment or teaching undergraduate students, communication skills are necessary for any scientist to flourish. Our faculty members train graduate students, passing along the skills they need to get the careers they want. Financial Support Both teaching and research assistantships are available to provide support to graduate students accepted into the Biological Sciences, Environmental Toxicology or Microbiology graduate programs. While there are no assistantships available for the Online M.S. in Biological Sciences for science teachers, financial aid is an option offered through the Office of Student Financial Aid. More on Financial Support Community We recognize that the people you meet and the connections you make as a graduate student are often as important as your time in the lab. Our seminars, reading groups and organizations, such as the Biological Sciences Graduate Student Association, exist to bring students together over shared interests. How to Apply to Graduate Programs Find more about how to apply on this page. Additional resources include: Plan of Study - Biological Sciences Plan of Study - Environmental Toxicology Plan of Study - Microbiology Graduate Faculty Research Interests Email biolgrad@clemson.edu with questions about the Biological Sciences graduate programs Email entoxgrad@clemson.edu with questions about the Environmental Toxicology graduate programs Email micrograd@clemson.edu with questions about the Microbiology graduate programs GENERAL INQUIRIES Department of Biological Sciences 132 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ biolsci@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-2328 RESOURCES Graduate Program Contacts To find out more about these programs, contact our graduate coordinators: Bill Baldwin, Biological Sciences: biolgrad@clemson.edu Peter van den Hurk, Environmental Toxicology: entoxgrad@clemson.edu Barbara Campbell, Microbiology: micrograd@clemson.edu Robert Ballard, Online M.S. in BioSci for science educators: biologyonline@clemson.edu Undergraduate Graduate How to Apply Plan of Study - BioSci Plan of Study - EnTox Plan of Study - Micro Graduate Faculty Departmental Research + Interests Current Student Resources Financial Support Graduate Student Association Online Masters Student Advising Student Awards Copyright © 2019 Clemson University Department of Biological Sciences | 132 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 Tel: 864-656-2328 | Email Us