Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Featured Sections Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Health and Wellness Features & Articles A Pitt team forecasted the devastating toll of the opioid epidemic As Pitt Public Health researchers predicted, more than 100,000 people are now dying from drug overdoses annually in the U.S. It shows we really don't understand the causes of the problem, they say. Pitt-UPMC researchers will use $5 million from Bayer to fight chronic kidney disease Using an innovative approach called population health management, Manisha Jhamb aims to get patients treated sooner to stave off severe disease. The effort could be a game-changer for rural areas. What it’s like to be a midwife In honor of Mother’s Day, four midwives from Pitt’s Doctor of Nursing Practice program share their most memorable births and why their profession is so important. Two public health leaders on COVID-19 and what’s next Pitt Public Health Dean Maureen Lichtveld and physician Georges Benjamin discuss pandemic preparedness, climate change and the future of scientific research. View All Articles This Pitt alumna is on a mission to stop relationship abuse Got food cravings? What’s living in your gut may be responsible Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe The ones to watch In an environment where innovation and inspiration are in no short supply, meet the trailblazers. Ashley Priore A rising senior, political strategist and top chess player who’s making bold moves. Tre Tipton This wide receiver and social work graduate student﻿﻿﻿’s journey has taken him from despair to LOVE—living out victoriously every day. Fodun Ologunde From summa cum laude to Apple Inc. software engineer. Toya Jones Studying trauma and its impact. Pitt Prosthetists Making prosthetic limbs fit every amputee, from Navy SEALs to diabetes patients. Lisa Coe Athlete. Activist. Leader. Jim Withers His Street Medicine Institute provides “street rounds” and social services to people who live outdoors. Previous Slide Next Slide See More Spotlights Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube