The Honors College - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to The Honors College Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to the Honors College Search The Honors College About Mission & Vision Honors Profile News & Events Faculty and Staff Contact Us Students Current Students Prospective Students Human Situation Book Lists Student Resources Human Situation Registration Programs & Minors Honors Minors Curricular Programs Co-Curricular Programs Honors and the Schools Undergraduate Research OURMA Programs Honors Thesis Fellowships Faculty Resources About Alumni & Giving Give to Honors The Great Conversation Ross M. Lence Dinner & Dialogues Current Priorities Honors College Advisory Board News & Events News & Events Office of Communication Apply! The Honors College Page contents: Events Prospective Students By the Numbers News Curricular Co-Curricular Apply Now! COVID-19 Updates TOGETHER, WE RISE TOGETHER, WE SOAR ONLINE ADVISING Academic advising appointments are still available online. Visit the Honors Advising webpage for more information. #IamHonors Join us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Virtual Tour of the Honors College at the University of Houston Take a virtual tour and join us at the Honors College at the University of Houston. For more information, contact the Office of Admissions at: honors@uh.edu. Apply to the Honors College Upcoming Events Honors College Tours Various Dates in May HERU 2022 May 31 – June 2, 2022 University of Houston Honors College Retreat August 18-19, 2022 Camp Allen, Navasota, TX Prospective Students Apply Now! The Honors College welcomes applications from students entering the University of Houston as freshmen, students enrolled at the University for one or several semesters and students transferring from other colleges and universities. Visit Us! There's no substitute for seeing the University of Houston for yourself. We encourage prospective students and their families to meet faculty and staff and see the campus. Prospective students have several opportunities to visit the Honors College — the Cougar Preview, one of our High School Senior Open Houses or an Individual Visit! Why Honors? The Honors College is a community where motivated students learn and grow together. We provide the personal support and advantages of a small liberal arts college together with the rich resources and diversity of a large metropolitan university. Learn More ... Need More Information? What are the Honors application deadlines? What kind of supporting materials do you need to apply? What about financial aid? Or, what if you've already been admitted? Admitted? Find out about orientation and retreat. Honors by the Numbers Top 10Top Ten Honors Program in the Nation 27Incoming National Merit and Tier One Recipients 727Fall 2020 Incoming Students 12Fulbright Recipients Phi Beta Kappa The Honors College proudly houses the nation's oldest and most prestigious honor society. Curricular Minors & Programs Creative Work Data and Society Energy and Sustainability Global Engagement and Research Leadership Studies Medicine & Society Phronêsis Bauer Business Honors Honors Engineering 3 + 2 Hobby Public Policy The Human Situation The Human Situation is the gateway course of the Honors College, a year-long welcome to the world of ideas. Co-curricular Programs Bonner Leaders Civic Engagement ePortfolio Undergraduate Research Speech & Debate Model Debate Programs Learning Abroad/Learning Away News UH Seniors prepare to give back to community Graduation season is here! Job hunting isn't the only thing college graduates have on their plate. In this segment, we hear from two students preparing to enter a new chapter of their life. UH Debate Dominates National Tournament and Finalizes Outstanding Year This was a prominent year for debate, and “I am so happy to see them rightfully rewarded for what they were able to pull off and do,” Glass said. “I am beyond impressed by everything that they have done, and I am so proud to be a part of this team and a part of the hard work, energy and dedication that they have put into every tournament.” Going the Distance UH Student-Athlete Earns Prestigious Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship for Commitment to Public Service Family Affair: Cougar Pride Renews Through the Generations “We are truly convinced that the quality of the Honors College experience is second to none. As products of that system, we have thrived. And we have seen our son have a great experience that yielded great career opportunities,” UH students set up dozens of cameras to capture wild animals around Houston Honors professor Ann Cheek's Hidden Life of Houston project is getting students to learn more about wildlife in the city. International Impact In what was the most competitive application year in the Fulbright Program’s more than 75-year history, the University of Houston has once again emerged as a top producer of Fulbright U.S. students. Honors Powerhouse Sarah Kimberly Elected as U.S. Presidential Scholar At just 19, she has collaborated with Hall of Fame songwriters, charted on Billboard, finished as a semifinalist in national music competition “The Voice” and been recently named as one of only 20 vocal U.S. Presidential Scholars in the Arts by the National YoungArts Foundation (NYAF). Honors College Student Joins the Ranks at the Intercollegiate Studies Institute Honor Student Sakethram Desabhotla experiences the Intercollegiate Studies Institute Honors in Action Visit Honors in Action, a selection of media highlighting Honors College events and programs. M.D. Anderson Library 4333 University Drive, Rm 212 Houston, TX 77204-2001 713.743.9010 voice 713.743.9015 fax 1.888.827.0366 (toll-free) honors@uh.edu Academic Calendar Campus Maps Get Help Bookstore Libraries Parking Human Resources Jobs at UH A-Z Offices Directories Emergency Libraries President Social Media Policies Fraud Reporting Title IX - Sexual Conduct Homeland Security TRAIL State of Texas ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies