Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Admissions Opportunities, meet resources. Meadows School of the Arts is a national leader in arts and communication education, offering multiple undergraduate and graduate degrees in performing, visual and communication arts. Meadows prepares students to engage and lead in the field of their choice. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission How to Apply Follow one of our application guides for instructions on how to apply for the program you’re interested in. Interested in Advertising, Art History, Corporate Communication, Creative Computation, Fashion Media, Film (B.A.), Journalism or Public Relations? Simply apply to SMU and indicate your area of interest in your application. Apply to SMU Interested in Art, Dance, Film (B.F.A.), Music or Theatre? For these dual admission programs, you’ll need to apply separately to Meadows and to SMU and be admitted to both. Dual Admission Guide Interested in one of our graduate programs? The application process varies by discipline. Take a look at our graduate admission guide for details on how to apply. Graduate Admission Guide Scholarship and Financial Aid From financial aid to scholarships to work opportunities, we're here to help you understand your financial aid options at Meadows. 97% The percentage of dually admitted undergraduate Meadows students who receive need-based aid or scholarships. 72% The percentage of SMU students who graduate without debt. 3 OUT OF 4 Undergraduate students receive scholarships and/or financial aid. Explore Financial Aid How do I schedule a visit to SMU Meadows? Undergraduate students can participate in information sessions, class observations, and tours of Meadows and SMU most days that the University is open. Graduate students can reach out to Joe Hoselton, director of graduate recruitment and admission, to inquire about visiting; email hoselton@smu.edu. Visit Meadows Contact Us Internships and Collaborations SMU Meadows students have ample opportunities for stellar internships and collaborations on campus, in Dallas (a top-five media market, home to 20+ Fortune 500 companies and the nation’s largest urban arts district) and in locales around the world. Students and alumni share their stories about the many ways these experiences help prepare them for their careers. Learn About Internships Virtual Tour Take a 360-degree look at the Owen Arts Center and the Umphrey Lee Center and see where Meadows students learn, create, perform and grow. Take A Virtual Tour Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search