Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services PrEP (Pre-exposure Prophylaxis) PrEP (Pre-exposure Prophylaxis) Columbia Health offers pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). PrEP is the use of an antiretroviral drug (Truvada) to prevent HIV infection in HIV-negative individuals at significant risk of becoming HIV-positive. Truvada has been shown to significantly reduce the risk of HIV infection in men who have sex with men, injection drug users, heterosexual cisgender women, and transgender women. Columbia Health will provide all necessary medical services and prescriptions if you need PrEP. Columbia Health wants to be sure that your experience in obtaining PrEP is simple, non-judgmental, supportive, and fairly rapid, and that you receive all the support you need. If you are enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, Truvada is covered. You may be eligible to receive reimbursement from the drug manufacturer for the copay. If you have a different insurance, it may pay for PrEP and we will assist you in getting insurance information. Starting PrEP The first step is to contact the Gay Health Advocacy Project at Columbia Health Medical Services. PrEP requires a prescription, a daily pill, and a health care provider visit with blood tests four times a year. Long-term side effects are generally minimal and are monitored by blood tests of kidney function. You may want to consider PrEP if your sexual partner(s) are positive or if you are in a higher-risk group (including men who have sex with men and trans women) and do not use a condom every time you have anal or vaginal intercourse. Please Contact GHAP using our secure online system or call 212-854-6655 for further information or to start the process of using PrEP to protect yourself. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health LGBTQ Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close