Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Advertising Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Advertising Major Apply Request More Info Advertising Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Advertising The Bachelor of Arts in Advertising in the Lew Klein College of Media and Communication at Temple University provides students with the tools and knowledge needed to advance their creative thinking skills and reach audiences through innovative advertising messaging and methods. In our Advertising bachelor’s degree program, you learn the fundamentals of advertising, as well as the various aspects of communication that encompass advertising so you are prepared to create professional ad campaigns and presentations for real-life clients. Some of the aspects of advertising you can study include art direction, branding, copywriting, media planning, research and strategy. The goal of advertising is to build connections between people and brands, ideas and institutions. Unlike public relations, it involves promoting a product, service or organization through paid media—from billboards to social media ads to television or radio commercials. This cutting-edge field is the most visible part of the marketing process and both influences and is influenced by current trends and culture. What sets apart our Bachelor of Arts in Advertising? A dynamic media market: Operating in the fourth largest media market in the country, students in our advertising degree program have access to leading media companies for internships, full-time employment and programs that merge the classroom and the industry. Professional development opportunities: Our bachelor’s degree program requires students to participate in either an internship or in Diamond Edge Communications, our student-run advertising agency. Students in our program also participate in national student competitions, including the Google Online Marketing Marketing Challenge, the One Club Young Ones Competition and the American Advertising Federation’s National Student Advertising Competition. With the support of faculty and off-campus mentors, these options give students the real-world environment and experience needed to sharpen their creative skills and prepare them for a variety of careers in the industry. Career-based training: Temple’s faculty teaches students about the concept of advertising on a few levels—a broad view of advertising and its effects on society, and specific career tracks shaped by the various professional roles in the industry. The combined approach helps students realize their full potential as creative practitioners and participants in consumer culture. Classes & Curriculum Students in the Advertising degree program complete 120 credits, including a minimum of 49 credits in advertising courses. Some of the major courses include Advertising Campaigns, Media and Society, and Psychology of Advertising. See a full list of program courses. Minors Digital Media Engagement The Digital Media Engagement minor is a 21-credit program designed for students of any major looking to build digital expertise. Upon completion of these courses, students are prepared to take the Google AdWords Certification Exam and the Google Analytics Individual Qualification Exam. Learn more about the Minor in Digital Media Engagement. Content Creation The Content Creation minor is an interdisciplinary program tailored to expand your knowledge of content. Through this program, you will learn to design, implement and integrate content for various digital media. You will also build creative development skills and learn the principles behind strategic social media and content marketing materials. Learn more about the Minor in Content Creation. Concentrations Advertising students focus on one of the six following concentrations and also have the option to combine one with the International Communication concentration to enhance their intercultural and interdisciplinary knowledge. Account Management Build the skills needed to become an advertising account manager, including knowing the nuances that distinguish advertising on the internet, in mobile and through traditional media. Learn to manage relationships between agency and client and the key steps of building and maintaining a brand. View Concentration Details Art Direction In this three-course concentration, you will develop the essential, hands-on skills needed to create compelling ads in digital and traditional media. Learn to work in collaboration with other artists and copywriters to brainstorm ideas and create fresh, branded concepts that engage, captivate and persuade audiences. View Concentration Details Brand Strategy and Research Study the changing demographics in the U.S. with this three-course concentration. Learn to use qualitative research to interpret consumer behavior and uncover valuable insights. Develop the necessary skills to conduct focus groups and surveys, and to analyze the data. This track positions you for work in advertising agencies, corporations, marketing companies and research firms. View Concentration Details Copywriting Learn to create engaging copy that drives marketing communications in all its forms, including direct mail, magazines, newspapers and web. Work in collaboration with art directors and other creative professionals, combining words and visuals into one coherent message. Through this three-course concentration, you will become a precise and versatile writer with a professional-quality portfolio. View Concentration Details International Communication Students in the International Communication Concentration (ICC) acquire a theoretical and practical education in international and intercultural communication and media. A unique opportunity for Klein students, this program allows you to obtain skills and knowledge in cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication by reflecting on your own cultural lens. Students participating in the ICC program are enlightened about various perspectives through an internationally and interculturally oriented curriculum. The program is offered on Temple’s domestic campuses, but students can supplement some coursework while studying abroad. View Concentration Details Media Planning Develop highly valued skills in media buying and planning in conventional and digital environments. This program focuses on the accounting and strategic skills required for media plans and projects of multiple scales, for a variety of private and public clients. View Concentration Details Related Graduate Degrees Communication for Development and Social Change MS Communication Management Online MS Media and Production MA Strategic Advertising and Marketing MS Related Graduate Certificates Cultural Analytics Strategic Communication and Cross-Cultural Leadership Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Our academic advisors will help you stay on track to graduate and ensure you remain on a clear professional path. Walk-in advising is available in the first two weeks of the semester for students who need assistance with any registration issues. Express advising is available for students throughout the rest of the semester. Advisors answer routine questions in 15-minute sessions. For more in-depth, personalized assistance, students may make appointments. To schedule an appointment or ask a question, contact our advising office. Email: advise@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-5273 You can also contact the advising office through TUportal under the Klein College tab. The Klein Advising Office, which serves all Klein majors, is located at the following address. Student Affairs/Advising Annenberg Hall, Room 9 2020 N. 13th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Important Dates Our academic calendar includes an overview of all relevant upcoming dates. Learn more about academic advising in the Advertising Major. Program Contact For more information about the Bachelor of Arts in Advertising program, please contact Joseph Glennon, chair of the Department of Advertising. Email: jglennon@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-9680 Student Clubs & Organizations Joining a student organization can affect your career and college experience in meaningful ways. Not only will you learn how to work with a team, you’ll also gain access to exciting projects, peer support and valuable networking opportunities. Below are examples of student clubs and organizations that can help you excel as an advertising student. Diamond Edge Communications is one of only a handful of student-run advertising agencies in the nation. DEC provides real-world experience for students in creating work for paying clients. Working at DEC challenges, encourages and welcomes all its students to showcase their skills and knowledge. LatinX Media Association provides extracurricular enrichment, opportunities, professional development and support to LatinX students and students interested in LatinX media, communication and culture, while strengthening the representation and visibility at Klein College. Sports Media Society for Women promotes and increases diversity in sports media through internships and scholarships, mentoring initiatives and networking events. Temple AdLib is a blog where advertising students write about internships, events, books and experiences that add depth and layers to their education in the classroom. Temple Advertising Club is a professional organization of students who are curious about the world of advertising and have a passionate desire to immerse themselves within the industry. Learn more about student clubs and organizations available to Advertising Major students. Study Away Opportunities Take on new challenges, experiences and viewpoints in an array of academic settings in the U.S. or around the world, through the Advertising Major’s Global Opportunities programs. Our Global Opportunities programs create leaders in media and communication by providing opportunities to study and work while experiencing life in influential urban centers throughout the world. You have the option of studying or interning in more than 20 destinations in the U.S. and around the world, including Dublin, London, Los Angeles, South Africa and more. These study away programs are designed to not only enhance your marketability in the global workplace, but also to increase your cultural capital and support your personal growth. Learn more about study away programs for the Advertising Major. Questions Representatives from our Global Opportunities office are available to answer any questions you may have. Email: kleingo@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-2354 CO-ADV-BA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Advertising Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info