Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Global Engagement Menu Main Nav Global Engagement Global Engagement Gateway Back Back Close About Overview Facts & Figures The Bridge Global News Global Engagement Committee Partnerships Overview COVID-19 Working Group SACRU SACRU Funding Opportinities SACRU Faculty Fellowship Expand Your World Overview BC in the World Formation, Reflection, & Service The World at BC Teaching Research COVID-19 Working Group Faculty Global Activity Visiting Scholars The Show @ 6 International Education Week International Assemblies Faculty Global Activity Events Global Engagement Gateway Summer Visiting Doctoral Research Fellowship Support Ukraine Related Links Student organizations Eagle Exchange Departments Global Engagement Gateway Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Global News Home About Global News Global News Boston College to partner on study of hazards from plastics An international team will survey health risks posed across the continuum of plastic production, use, and disposal. BC Law Professor Joan Blum awarded Fulbright to Uzbekistan She will teach and conduct research at Tashkent State University of Law. City Connects here and abroad Ireland’s Minister for Education observes the BC program that supports teachers and students across the U.S. and in Dublin. BC professor receives Fulbright Fellowship in Medicine Professor of Communication Ashley Duggan will serve as a senior scholar with Ireland's Royal College of Surgeons. BC a leader in student Fulbrights Boston College continues to be among the nation’s top producers of student Fulbright award winners, according to a 2021-22 report. Social history as a research lens A conversation with Dublin City University historian James Kelly, currently BC's Burns Visiting Scholar in Irish Studies. 'Encuentro' BC's Roche Center for Catholic Education leads an examination of the reality of immigration—nationally, at the U.S.-Mexico border, and across the world. $3.3M grant aids BC research project on trauma, violence NIMH funding supports a groundbreaking BC School of Social Work study of children and adversity. Bloody Sunday anniversary symposium BC's Irish Studies program will mark the 50th anniversary of the tragic day in Derry and explore its enduring relevance. Resilience, generosity, and hope Afghan refugee Farhad Sharifi escaped violence in his home country, and found a team of supporters at BC. New U.S. Ambassador to China Alumnus R. Nicholas Burns '78, H '02, former ambassador to NATO and Greece, has been confirmed as United States ambassador to the People's Republic of China. Unstoppable Graduating senior Urwa Hameed wants to improve the lives of women in her native Pakistan and beyond. Her new book is just the beginning. Lessons learned at COP26 Boston College attendees at the U.N. Climate Change Conference reflect on takeaways and the road from here. A platform to empower As Miss Massachusetts, BC master's student and future social worker Elizabeth Pierre uses her crown to help young people find their voice. 'Healing along the fault lines' International Education "Week" will be celebrated throughout November at BC. BC to send delegation to COP26 A group of faculty and students will attend the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. Air pollution’s deadly toll BC Global Observatory uncovers air pollution's striking economic and human cost in Africa's first continent-wide survey. National Climate Assessment Environmental sociologist Andrew Jorgenson tapped for report on the state of climate change science. Ricci Institute coming to Boston College The internationally acclaimed institute for Chinese-Western cultural history, and its library, will open at BC in early 2022 BC expands international education opportunities New Office of Global Education reflects an agenda for a new era. Mariano at the McMullen BC's McMullen Museum of Art presents the first major U.S. exhibition on Cuban modernist painter Mariano Rodríguez. New Sullivan Chair Award-winning historian Guy Beiner has been appointed as the Craig and Maureen Sullivan Millennium Professor in Irish Studies. 'A Campaign for Justice' A new book on Ireland's Magdalene Laundries details the work of survivor and academic activists. Peer pressure A BC-led study finds social networks play a powerful role in adoption of clean cooking fuel in India. "Coping with Defeat" New from political scientist Jonathan Laurence, the book addresses Sunni Islam, Roman Catholicism, and the modern state. Intercultural partnership A Lynch School collaboration with Brazilian Jesuit Network supports professional development of teachers and faculty. Finding the 'missing link' The discovery of a billion-year-old fossil offers new insight into animal evolution, BC researcher says. Exploring the world Current students and recent graduates have earned Fulbrights, Borens, Gilmans, and other prestigious scholarships and awards. Scientists detect Pleistocence permafrost thaw Permafrost thawed as recently as 400,000 years ago, when temperatures were not much higher than today, BC researchers report. Ireland and the struggle against modernity A conversation with Burns Library Visiting Scholar in Irish Studies Fearghal McGarry. For the birds BC biologist contributes to a milestone in avian research. 'Taking Shape' at the McMullen Museum A groundbreaking exhibition of abstract art from the Arab world in an exclusive New England showing. Papal appointment School of Theology and Ministry student Sister Nathalie Becquart is the first woman to be appointed undersecretary of the Synod of Bishops. Global advancements New international partnerships and initiatives enhance BC's global engagement under the direction of Vice Provost James Keenan, S.J. Identifying super polluters A new book analyzes the most egregious fossil-fueled power plant polluters across more than 160 nations. The influence of Irish literary laureates A webinar series produced by Boston College explores the lives and works of the four Irish-born winners of the Nobel Prize in Literature. The toll of air pollution in India Pollution-related deaths numbered 1.67 million in a single year, according to a report led by BC researchers. Finding fault A BC professor exposes the hidden history of human-induced earthquakes. Simulated WHO session BC undergrads take part in negotiations surrounding the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 response. New Calderwood University Professor in Islamic and Asian Art Emine Fetvaci is a prominent scholar and teacher whose research areas include Ottoman, Mughal, and Safavid art and architecture. Oceans in peril, humans at risk Widespread ocean pollution threatens the health of more than three billion people, an international scientific coalition led by BC researchers reports. What happens when child soldiers return home? Theresa Betancourt's research could help change the way we treat trauma in under-resourced regions of the world. Jesuit Refugee Service celebrates 40 years Boston College faculty, students, and alumni have benefited from a long-standing partnership with the international organization. BC, Australian Catholic U. to collaborate New agreement will also facilitate study abroad and exchange between the two schools. International Education Week A month of virtual events center on the theme of 'Exposing the Fault Lines: Embracing Social Justice in the Wake of a Crisis.' Angels Unawares at BC BC displays a replica of the Vatican sculpture symbolizing the call for hospitality to refugees and migrants. Burns Scholar values links between folklore, literature Award-winning Irish writer Éilís Ní Dhuibhne on writing, research, and teaching BC undergraduates. The Irish Influence A new Boston College webinar series features major and rising figures in Irish cultural life. Faithful engagement The School of Theology and Ministry's Spanish-language virtual courses are drawing participants throughout Latin America and beyond. New format for Gaelic Roots The acclaimed Irish music series goes virtual this fall, with a series of lunchtime performances. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Global Engagement 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Partnerships Expand Your World Main Office Lawrence House 122 College Rd +1 617-552-1238 bc.global@bc.edu Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College