Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Application Process>Application Timeline Application Timeline 1. Apply to Baylor University For information about applying to Baylor University, please visit Baylor Admissions. When applying through the goBAYLOR application, be sure to select interest in the Honors College (under Academic Plans) to receive more information about the programs/majors before you apply to the Honors College. 2. Research Programs/Majors in the Honors College The Baylor Honors College includes four majors/programs, which students can combine to create their own customized Honors experience. Applicants are highly encouraged to research these programs and connect with Honors College departments as they prepare for their application. Here are some of the resources available to prospective students: Honors College Virtual Visit Experience: meet with a faculty and student representative on a personal Zoom call. Offered every Monday and Friday from 11:15 a.m. to noon. Meet Your Major Program: Learn more about a specific Honors College major or program by attending a Meet Your Major session on Zoom. Held biweekly. Access the Honors College application questions here [link once the website is updated]. Keep these questions in mind as your research majors/programs that interest you. 3. Apply to Programs/Majors in the Honors College in goBAYLOR A prospective student may apply to one or more of the Honors College programs/majors through the Honors College application in their goBAYLOR account. If you applied through the Common App or Apply Texas, you will receive an email with steps on how to activate your goBAYLOR account about 48 hours after submitting your application via these two sites. Students do not need to be admitted before having access to goBAYLOR and are able to access the Honors College Application once their application has been received. We recommend students wait until they receive this email to activate their goBAYLOR account as to not cause a duplicate which can delay the processing of their application. Applications for the Honors College open annually on October 1. Each student who confirms their intent to enroll in one of the four Honors College majors or programs by March 1 (Round 1) or April 1 (Round 2) is considered for an Honors College scholarship. The committee reviews the student’s Baylor application, level of financial need as displayed through the FAFSA and CSS profile, and Honors College application (unnecessary if enrolling only in Great Texts). If selected to receive an award, students are notified via email in March (Round 1) or April (Round 2). The process is completed and closed in April. Students do not need to submit a deposit to Baylor in order to be considered. The confirmation for the Honors College is non-binding. 4. Apply for Honors College Housing (Optional) Honors College students have the opportunity to live in the Honors Residential College (HRC). This unique residential college provides a living experience that fosters community, discovery, and opportunities for personal growth. For more information about important housing dates and housing options in the HRC, please follow this link. If you have any questions, please contact HRC@baylor.edu. 5. Apply for Honors College Line Camp and Orientation Opportunity After students have confirmed their acceptance to Baylor, they can sign up Honors College Line Camp and Orientation. Honors College Line Camp: This is designed specifically for incoming students who have been accepted to any of the four Honors College programs. New students who select to participate in this unique camp experience will be able to connect with other Honors College students as well as faculty and staff. The Honors College Line Camp is a wonderful way to find community and an outstanding way to learn more about the University as a whole. CLICK HERE for more information. Orientation: Orientation is a two-day program that is essential for all incoming and transfer students. During orientation, you will meet with an advisor to discuss your degree plan and register for classes, but there is so much more. It is an opportunity to explore academics, campus life, and begin developing important relationships with faculty, staff, and students. There are also opportunities to hear important information and have all of your questions answered. Contact: If you have questions about Honors College scholarship opportunities not answered on our FAQ page, please email ApplyHC@baylor.edu. Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give