Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites About Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift About KU Medical Center Fast Facts The University of Kansas Medical Center serves Kansas through excellence in education, research, patient care and community engagement. The KU Medical Center main campus at the corner of 39th Street and Rainbow Avenue in Kansas City, Kan., consists of the University of Kansas School of Medicine, School of Nursing and School of Health Professions, as well as The University of Kansas Hospital, which is a separate entity run by The University of Kansas Health System. The School of Medicine — the only medical school in Kansas — also has campuses in Wichita and Salina. The KU School of Nursing has campuses in Kansas City and Salina. KU Medical Center is home to The University of Kansas Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center (one of only 70 NCI-designated centers in the country), as well as a National Institutes of Health-designated Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (one of only 32 such centers in the country). It is also one of 62 institutions in the national Clinical and Translational Science Award consortium, where researchers are working to speed up basic-science discoveries into cures and treatments. Student Enrollment Total number of students, Fall 2021: 3,727 School of Medicine: 2,244 M.D. program: 830 M.D.-Ph.D. program: 29 Residents: 890 Graduate programs: 376 Other programs: 89 School of Nursing: 690 Undergraduate programs: 413 Graduate programs: 277 School of Health Professions: 767 Undergraduate programs: 129 Graduate programs: 618 Other programs: 20 Interdisciplinary and other programs: 22 Download detailed report Federal funding for research National Institutes of Health funding for research at KU Medical Center: Fiscal year 2020: $77,014,486 Fiscal year 2019: $71,074,759 Fiscal year 2017: $52,782,659 Fiscal year 2016: $49,801,526 Fiscal year 2015: $55,019,454 View Funding and Rankings Workforce Total employees: 6,827 Total number of faculty: 3,601 Full-time: School of Medicine: 1,261 School of Nursing: 68 School of Health Professions: 85 Volunteer faculty affiliates: 2,187 Includes Kansas City, Wichita and Salina campuses. Administrative faculty are excluded from the totals. Employee numbers updated January 2018 Faculty numbers updated January 2018 KU Medical Center activities throughout Kansas The University of Kansas Medical Center works with communities in every county in Kansas. For information on the medical center's outreach efforts, click here. To see how KU Medical Center benefits the welfare of Kansas, click here. Kansas City campus facts 41 acres 46 buildings 2.4 million square feet Oldest building: Murphy Hall, 1924 Newest building: Health Education Building, 2017 More detailed information is available from the KU Medical Center Office of Enterprise Analytics. Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.