Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus Rosen College Degree Programs Ranked in Top 10 Hospitality and tourism management online graduate program and entertainment management undergraduate program highlighted among nation’s best. By Susan Vernon-Devlin | October 11, 2018 (Photo by Steven Diaz) We’re making BIG moves! Rosen College of Hospitality Management is now ranked among the top 10 nationally for two of its most sought-after programs: the hospitality and tourism management online master’s program and the entertainment management undergraduate program. The hospitality and tourism management online graduate program’s academic quality and affordability helped lift it to the top spot on BestColleges.Com’s top 10 list. OnlineMasters.com, an industry-leading education research organization, also identified Rosen’s program as one of the best in the country for curriculum quality, program flexibility, affordability and graduate outcome. The ranking was derived from data comprised from interviews and surveys from current students and alumni. “The rankings are reflections of the strategic direction the college is taking in not only meeting the students’ needs but also the high expectations from the industry. We are breaking the iron triangle of quality, access and cost in higher education by offering blended learning opportunities and best value for the students demonstrated by our master’s program,” Rosen College Dean Youcheng Wang said. “We are also redefining hospitality education by extending beyond the traditional domain of the hospitality industry and creating great opportunities for students in other related areas such as our entertainment management program. My thanks to our faculty and staff for their dedication and commitment to making Rosen College of Hospitality Management the best of its kind in the world.” “The rankings are reflections of the strategic direction the college is taking in not only meeting the students’ needs but also the high expectations from the industry.” “This recognition of excellence reflects the considerable investment of time of many faculty who over the past four years have continuously developed and delivered high-quality, innovative online material for our expanding number of graduate students,” said Alan Fyall, graduate programs director and interim chair for the Tourism, Events/Entertainment and Attractions department. “With the addition of many new elective courses that reflect the changing hospitality and tourism landscape, innovative dual degree programs with international partners, and the launch of new online graduate certificate programs, the future of the program is promising at a time when many conventional programs are losing ground nationwide.” Rosen College’s Gregory Elias entertainment management undergraduate program, just two years old, is also ranked among the top programs in the country by CollegeChoice.com and Best College Reviews. CollegeChoice.com ranked the entertainment management degree program No. 4 while Best College Reviews ranked the degree program No. 6, citing internships and hands-on experience as assets for the students. The location in Central Florida, in the heart of hospitality and entertainment, also was a plus. Overall, Rosen College of Hospitality Management continually ranks among the top five hospitality and tourism management colleges and universities in the world out of 1,000 schools that are assessed by CEOWorld magazine. The college is one of the 13 colleges that comprise the University of Central Florida, located in Orlando, Florida. About the UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management The UCF Rosen College of Hospitality Management, located in Orlando, offers students an unrivaled opportunity to learn and work in the heart of hospitality. Ranked No. 2 among hospitality management programs worldwide, Rosen College has been an educational leader for over 30 years. Uniquely positioned in America’s top tourism destination, we educate the next generation of industry leaders through internationally-recognized faculty, innovative academic programs, cutting-edge research and strong industry and community partnerships. To learn more, visit hospitality.ucf.edu. More Topics Pegasus Briefs Rosen College of Hospitality Management Hospitality Management entertainment management Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn Related Stories UCF Creates Entertainment Management Degree with $5 Million Donation University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida