Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Arts Access CAA Arts Access Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: CAA Arts Access Slide 2: Talkback at Lynn Nottage's Sweat on Broadway Slide 3: Tour of The Whitney Biennial 2019 Slide 4: Backstage Tour at The New York City Ballet Talkback at Lynn Nottage's Sweat on Broadway Tour of The Whitney Biennial 2019 Backstage Tour at The New York City Ballet Previous Next A program of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA), Arts Access is a hub — for experiences, insider access, and discovery. CAA Arts Access connects artists, scholars, producers, and audiences through dynamic programs and resources. Membership is free and open to the Columbia community including alumni, students, faculty, and staff including affiliate schools. Become a member. Join here. Questions? Contact us at [email protected] Events and News Spotlight Returning to Campus Things look different this year, but Columbia University is working together to keep its community safe and healthy. If you are coming to campus at any point this year, these rules—and related policies and guidelines—apply to you. Check out the reopening plans and protocols. Learn more 5/12 For Colored Girls on Broadway Join us to see Ntozake Shange’s For Colored Girls, a “landmark of American theater” (New York Times) that blazed a trail for generations to come. Register 5/13 For Colored Girls Virtual Talkback Join us for a virtual talkback of the Broadway show, with producer Ron Simons '82CC, '89BUS, Professor Farah Jasmine Griffin, and artist Stacey Sargeant. Register Things To Do Sign Up Join our network of alumni who love art. Connect Post on Alumni Community. Share your successes. Get advice. Benefits Discover the perks of joining Arts Access. Volunteer Search for arts-related opportunities. Attend Events Secure tickets to can't-miss events. Alumni News Get the latest alumni artist news. Expand all Collapse all About History CAA Arts Access — known as the Columbia Alumni Arts League from 2007 to 2013 — has been opening doors to galleries, theaters, concert halls, and museums for more than 30,000 Columbia University alumni since its founding. Since becoming part of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA) in 2010, the program has broadened the scope of its offerings. Programming Our calendar has the most up-to-date arts and culture listings in any genre, for any interest. Also be sure to check your inbox regularly for our newsletter with members-only event invitations, special and free ticket offers, and alumni artist news. Attend members-only events, or choose from events for families, for recent alumni, or for alumni professionally involved with the arts. Committee Alumni leaders play an integral role in shaping CAA Arts Access. Tiffany Bryant '08CC, Chair Daniel Mitura '09CC, Co-Chair Ian Cofre '03CC Kate Flanagan '12SOA Sophie Lam '04CC, '18TC Paul Maddon '81CC, '88PS, '88GSAS Laurie Magid '85LAW Ken-David Masur '02CC Michelle Mirsky '77DM Cassandra Nwokah '17SOA Alece Oxendine '12SOA Gregory Peterson '73CC, '85LAW James Reda '81SEAS Fred Strype '02SOA Althea Viafora-Kress '00GS *As of September 2021 Margarita (Ari) Brose '84BC, Advisory role Mandy Hackett '92BC, Advisory role Elizabeth Kipp-Giusti '12CC, Chair Emerita Tom Kitt '96CC, Advisory role Peter Kujawski '00CC, Advisory role Diane Paulus '97SOA, Advisory role Laura Pietropinto '00CC, Advisory role Rita Pietropinto-Kitt, '93CC, '96SOA, Chair Emerita Philippa Portnoy '86BC, '90BUS, Advisory role Shaiza Mariam Rizavi-Friedland '96BUS, Advisory role Michael Sellinger '91BUS, Advisory role Ron Simons ‘82CC, ‘89BUS, Advisory role Barbara Whitman '05SOA, Advisory role Contact Patty Tsai '11TC Senior Associate Director, CAA Arts Access Address CAA Arts Access Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street 4th Floor New York, NY, 10025 Email [email protected] Phone 212-851-2279 FAQs Who can join? Alumni of all Columbia Schools and affiliates (including Barnard and Teachers College) can join, as well as faculty, staff, graduating students, parents of current students, and Columbia supporters. How can I join? Sign up here. Is there a fee? Membership is free and you don't need to renew your previous Columbia Alumni Arts League (CAAL) membership. If you were a paying member of the CAAL and would like to continue supporting the arts at Columbia, you can do so here. What do I receive when I join? Members receive invitations to exclusive events, ongoing discounts and benefits from our Cultural Partners. How can I redeem my membership benefits? Each ongoing discount or special offer featured in our calendar or in our monthly newsletter has instructions on how to redeem the offer. Discounts and benefits can be redeemed by using a special promotional code. All special promotional codes are visible to members on our website. See the full list of ongoing discounts from our Cultural Partners here. How can I register for events? Event registration links are shared in Arts Access emails and on this site. If it is an event offered by a cultural organization, please follow registration instructions in the event description. Can I bring guests to events? You can purchase guest ticket(s) at the member price. The maximum number of guest tickets depends on the event. I am already a member of the CAA. Does this mean that I am also a member of CAA Arts Access? If you are a graduate of Columbia University, you are automatically a member of the CAA and can attend any CAA-hosted events. Arts Access is a special program of the CAA, but you have to sign up first by joining through our website here. Will I receive a membership card? Previously, CAAL members received a physical card. Now, membership is free and so CAA Arts Access members can access all of the benefits of membership through this site as well as special promotions sent via the monthly newsletters. Can I volunteer? We welcome anyone who wants to contribute their time and expertise to Arts Access. Please contact us at [email protected]. Current volunteer opportunities are also listed on Volunteer Columbia. Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close