Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Research Development Events Archive Events Workshop: Broader Impacts Thursday, October 18, 11:30 am - 1:00 pm This annual collaborative is designed to help Brown faculty and researchers respond effectively to the Broader Impacts criterion and other outreach requirements of governmental funding agencies. *UPDATE* With 30 registrants and 20 faculty in attendance, we divided into several groups but focused on one scenario. Each group had its own facilitator and a unique audience. We would like to thank all who participated for making this workshop a great success and a beneficial practice toward future funding opportunities. A Day Spent with Director Walker and Senator Reed Friday, October 19, 2019 STEM was strong in this tour of Brown’s laboratories, featuring a powerful line-up of faculty research. Senator Reed and Director Walker of DARPA had front row seats in a showcase of robotics, chemical sensors and molecular informatics, to name a few. In conclusion, Director Walker conducted a seminar, sharing an overview on the future of DARPA and how Brown can play a bigger role in breakthrough technologies. Frontlines of the Opioid Crisis: Innovative Science-based Solutions Tuesday, October 23, 6-7:30 pm The American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Office of the Vice-President for Research at Brown University present a keynote and panel discussion featuring leaders in addiction research and prominent members of the medical community to address Rhode Island’s research-based creative approaches to the opioid crisis. *UPDATE* This Brown University forum, co-hosted with the American Academy of Arts and Sciences was a great success featuring intelligent, creative discussions aimed at addressing the epidemic of opiate overdoses sweeping our nation. Keynote speaker, Michael Botticelli, former director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, moderated the panel, which included Rebecca Boss, director of the Rhode Island Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals, and Brown University researchers Traci Green, Brandon Marshall and Dr. Josiah Rich. Panelist discussion focused on the need for partnerships among agencies and policy that included those affected. In changing the addiction landscape, it will be essential to alter the stigma associated with drug use and users to create an inclusive, healing environment. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat