Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Students > Seniors to Remember 2022 Seniors to Remember Six members of the Class of 2022 reflect on their Boston College experience This year's Boston College 'Seniors to Remember' include (clockwise from top left): Bozhena Kulchyckyj, Eugene Woo, Jack Bracher, Elisa Ganzon, Conor McCormick, Jewel Strawberry. (Photos by Caitlin Cunningham) Jack Bracher: A graduate of Boston College High School and self-described “Boston kid at heart,” Bracher grew up spending time on campus with his mother, Courage to Know Director Elizabeth Bracher ’91, and envisioned himself attending BC. His admittance fueled his drive to make the most out of his time on the Heights, where he served as UGBC president this past year. Read more Elisa Ganzon: Ganzon has emerged as a leader at the Connell School of Nursing, serving as a mentor in the First-Year Nursing seminar and as a member of the school's Educational Policy Committee. The classroom and placement experiences she has had in the University’s PULSE program have had a transformational effect on her. She realized a nursing degree would allow her to help people in a way she had never thought about. Read more Bozhena Kulchyckyj: Kulchyckyj has had a deep interest in entrepreneurship and venture capital. At the same time, she has pursued her passion as an artist through her studio art major. She has worked in operations roles at architectural firm Perkins Eastman and fashion startup Aurate New York, and for the past two years has served as a design lead at the technology startup Fisherman. Read more Conor McCormick: McCormick arrived at the Heights two years after a swimming pool accident left him paralyzed from the waist down, unsure of how his disability would impact his college experience. Originally hoping to become a doctor, at Boston College he discovered a passion for advocacy that, combined with his theology and philosophy classes, led him to the law. Read more Jewel Strawberry: Strawberry began playing volleyball at an early age and blossomed into one of Florida’s top high school players. She made the transition to collegiate volleyball but an injury forced her to re-evaluate her role in the game, her identity as a student-athlete, and to explore other aspects of herself through leadership opportunities and a growing interest in areas of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Read more Eugene Woo: Woo traveled 3,000 miles for college and discovered—and embraced—all of the geographical, climate, and academic differences and challenges that Boston College posed. Unafraid to take a new path, which included everything from education research to design to cybersecurity, he returns to the Golden State changed, and better. Read more University Communications | May 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College