COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU Fast Facts: College of Engineering WSU Fast Facts Categories: Fast Facts Home Athletics Applied Learning Barton School of Business Campus Expansion College of Applied Studies College of Engineering College of Fine Arts College of Health Professions University Dashboards Fairmount College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Graduate School Honors College College of Innovation and Design Student Life Wichita College of Engineering Fast Facts WSU is ranked first nationally in industry-funded aerospace research and development by the Nation Science Foundation. Almost 25 percent of area engineers are WSU graduates. Wichita State University was one of the first educational institutions in the nation to offer a degree in aerospace engineering—way back in in 1928. Shocker engineering students have access to the largest engineering co-op and internship program in the state. WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research is one of only a handful in the nation that conducts research on aviation safety. The Institute is the authoritative source for annual rankings of commercial airline performance and customer satisfaction. The new, $32 million Experiential Engineering Building on WSU’s Innovation Campus provides access to additional applied learning opportunities and advanced technology—and a place for students, professors and industry professionals to collaborate. Through the Engineer of 2020 program, our graduates enter the workforce with the broad-based education—incorporating real-world learning, research, study abroad, leadership development and service learning. Students gain real-world experience—and careers—with NASA, NetApp, Spirit AeroSystems, Toyota, Airbus and GE Aviation, just to name a few. The college awards nearly $3 million in need-based aid and merit scholarships each year. It also annually awards ten $28,000 Wallace Scholarships to new incoming freshmen through a hands-on competition. WSU’s engineering facilities also include the National Institute for Aviation Research, home to more than 20 state-of-the-art labs in everything from aerodynamics and 3D printing to crash dynamics and robotics. Students have many ways to get involved—and get support—outside of the classroom, including engineering student organizations, free tutoring and the freshmen mentoring program, Mentor UPP. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©