Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print The next big thing from Princeton's MacMillan lab: an ‘improbable’ mechanism for a difficult chemical bond Wendy Plump, Department of Chemistry Jan. 18, 2022, 3:50 p.m. David MacMillan’s team at Princeton University found a new way to use ordinary blue light shining on an iron catalyst to create carbon-carbon bonds that are otherwise difficult to form. The molecules constructed through this process fit with drug targets as precisely as “a key going into a lock,” said researchers. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy The challenge to build a better molecule is a constant for researchers working with Princeton’s David MacMillan, who in October won the Nobel Prize in chemistry. The latest work from the team, published in Science on the heels of MacMillan’s win, advances that mission with a striking mechanism for forming carbon-carbon bonds that have traditionally been difficult to make. Known for scrapping tried-and-true methods in search of new efficiencies, MacMillan replaced the conventional steps used for decades to build these molecules with entirely new steps that eliminate many of the earlier drawbacks. To do this, the researchers drew their inspiration partly from nature. This schematic illustrates the mechanism used for the new carbon-carbon bonds: homolytic substitution (SH2). In this process, a substrate molecule (top left) displaces a chemical group from the iron catalyst (middle) to form a product molecule with a new carbon-carbon bond (top right). This mechanism was well established in biology but had not been broadly utilized in organic chemistry to forge carbon-carbon bonds, the fundamental linkages of pharmaceutical molecules. Graphic courtesy of Marissa Lavagnino Nature uses a straightforward method to protect the environment that fosters carbon-carbon bonds by cloistering key, fragile intermediates (the products of steps along the way) inside enzymes. This is difficult to reproduce in a lab even though a mechanism for doing so, called homolytic substitution or SH2, is well understood in other fields, like biology. That mechanism was generally discarded by chemists as improbable, but MacMillan is known to savor a challenge. With their expertise in photoredox catalysis, a platform that drives reactions with light instead of harsher factors, the chemists in MacMillan’s research group used the SH2 mechanism and maintained the mild environment that allows these bonds to form readily. They used iron as a reaction catalyst, rather than the traditional palladium, making for a more sustainable bond-forming system. This generically useful “cross-coupling” method — the ability to select and bind different organic fragments — has broad implications for the pharmaceutical industry. The three-dimensional architecture of the molecules constructed through this process provides a fit with drug targets that is so precise, it has been described as “like a key going into a lock.” “Pharmaceutical companies care enormously about carbon-carbon bonds, but it’s got an interesting name: sp3-sp3. The more carbon-carbon or sp3 content you can put into drugs, the more likelihood of success they’re going to have,” said MacMillan, the James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Chemistry. “A drug will bond to the desired target. But what happens if it also binds to any of the millions of other targets in your body with a totally different effect, some of which is going to be unwanted? You need that molecule to be really selective and go just to the place you want it to go. The chemistry we’ve developed now allows you in a general way to do a new type of sp3-sp3 coupling that is very selective.” The research highlights the utility of photoredox catalysis, a field flourishing alongside asymmetric organocatalysis, the technology for which MacMillan was awarded the Nobel Prize in October. What is homolytic substitution? Carbon is the backbone of every known biological molecule. But its very stability makes cross-coupling difficult. The previous process, for which three chemists earned the Nobel Prize in 2010, used palladium as the catalyst to jumpstart the reaction. But that process, while robust, uses three chemical steps — oxidative addition, transmetalation, and reductive elimination — with the efficiency decreasing at each step for the specific products MacMillan is trying to build. Enter homolytic substitution. The substitution involves one chemical group replacing another on a molecule. Co-lead paper author Marissa Lavagnino, a fifth-year graduate student, said the mechanism works because it allows researchers to silo reaction partners. Authors on the new carbon-carbon bond paper in the journal Science include (from left): Marissa Lavagnino, a fifth-year graduate student; Colin Gould, a postdoctoral fellow; Wei Liu, a former postdoc now at Janssen Pharmaceuticals; and James S. McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Chemistry David MacMillan, winner of the 2021 Nobel Prize in chemistry. Photo by C. Todd Reichart, Princeton University “Our mechanism does not require both organic molecules to interact with the metal; only one has to interact with the metal, and the other can essentially fly by and react and push that other partner off the metal,” she said. “Because of that, you don’t have both partners crowded onto the metal.” In their paper, researchers describe the SH2 mechanism as “seldom postulated, rarely discussed, and frequently discarded as improbable.” It’s not what they set out to prove when they started the project, said Wei Liu, co-lead author on the paper and a recent postdoctoral fellow in MacMillan’s lab. But when the cross-coupling kept working, they looked more deeply into what was permitting it. “I presented my results in group meeting, saying the reaction works but I don’t know what the mechanism is,” said Liu. “Dave suggested right away that it could be that one radical attacks the other. What it describes is actually a substitution, but he didn’t know it was called an SH2 mechanism either. It was only later, when we went back into the literature and found that people actually had descriptions of it, that we were able to identify it.” Colin Gould, a postdoctoral research fellow in MacMillan’s lab and paper co-author, added: “Anytime you introduce a new fundamental step to bond formations, it’s going to allow you to do things that you haven’t been able to do before, and this is one example of that. It’s exciting because you could potentially open up new avenues. That’s why it’s a big advance.” “A biomimetic SH2 cross-coupling mechanism for quaternary sp3 -carbon formation,” by Wei Liu, Marissa N. Lavagnino, Colin A. Gould, Jesús Alcázar and David W. C. MacMillan, appears in the Nov. 11, 2021 issue of the journal Science (DOI: 10.1126/science.abl4322). This research was funded by the NIH National Institute of General Medical Sciences (R35 GM134897-02), Princeton University and the Princeton Catalysis Initiative, and gifts from Janssen, Merck, Bristol Myers Squibb, GenMab and Pfizer. Related Stories Bright future: Unlocking the potential of light Read more Collaboration of minds and metal leads to possible shortcut to new drugs Read more Princeton’s David MacMillan receives Nobel Prize in chemistry Read more MacMillan lab finds new way to bond molecules that could speed drug discovery Read more A light bulb and a few chemicals: Scientists find a way to help make new reactions Read more Princeton technique puts chemistry breakthroughs on the fast track Read more Princeton chemists teach an enzyme a new trick, with potential for building new molecules Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice