Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Home Resources Our COVID-19 Response AAA Student Health Center and COVID-19 Learn more about the physical distancing and safety changes implemented in the Student Health Service. Learn More > Counseling Center and COVID-19 Learn more about the physical distancing and safety changes implemented in the Counseling Center. Learn More > Housing and COVID-19 Learn more about the physical distancing and safety changes implemented in Housing and Residential Life spaces. Learn More > Herbert Wellness Center and COVID-19 Learn more about the physical distancing and safety changes implemented in the Herbert Wellness Center. Learn More > Student Center Complex and COVID-19 Learn more about the physical distancing and safety changes implemented in the Student Center Complex. Learn More > OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 The Division of Student Affairs is committed to continuing our core mission of engaging, supporting, and developing students by re-imagining our exemplary services, programs, and facilities in response to the COVID-19 global pandemic. Help us slow the spread The University's COVID-19 Response Visit the University COVID-19 information page for the latest University-wide updates and resources. Learn More Student Health Service Student Health Service is open for in-person and telemedicine visits by appointment made via MyUHealthChart.com. Walk-in visits are also welcome. Learn More Counseling Center Through a continuation of telehealth in addition to changes to its space to accommodate for personal health and physical distancing, the Counseling Center is committed to providing mental health services to students. Learn More Housing and Residential Life Housing and Residential Life is committed to providing a living environment that is as safe as possible during the COVID-19 pandemic. Learn More Wellness and Recreation The Department of Wellness and Recreation is committed to providing its programs and services in as safe an environment as possible while adhering to county guidelines regarding recreational facilities. Learn More Outdoor Adventures Student Center Complex The Student Center Complex is committed to providing space for students, student organizations, and the University community. Learn More Student Activities and Student Organizations Review information on how the University-wide guidelines for all meetings, programs, and events on campus apply to undergraduate student organizations. Learn More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices