skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link You are here Home Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Our Mission The Friends of the Libraries is a philanthropic organization dedicated to enhancing the experiences our extraordinary libraries offer to NC State students, faculty and staff, and the public. Join or renew your membership now Your Impact Through the generosity of our Friends, we are able to provide materials and opportunities to our students and the campus community that would not otherwise be available. As a Friend, you help ensure that the Libraries remain one of NC State University's strongest assets by supporting our collections, services, diverse spaces, and cutting-edge technologies. Individual Memberships Levels NC State Student Free NC State Recent Grad (5 years post-graduation) $15 NC State Alumni/Faculty/Staff/Parent $50 Supporting (Community Member) $125 By joining the NC State Libraries Friends of the Libraries annually you will receive the following benefits: Early access registration to premium programs, author events, public programming events, and the Cultural Passport Series in partnership with the Gregg Museum of Art & Design, JC Raulston Arboretum, and the College of Veterinary Medicine Publications highlighting Library news including the FOCUS magazine. A monthly e-newsletter featuring free programming hosted by NC State University Libraries. Library borrowing privileges with the purchase of a $50 borrower's card. Family Membership Levels Family memberships include all individual membership benefits for two adults living at the same address, and any children 18 and under, plus invitations to family-oriented programming and events for one year. NC State Alumni/Faculty/Staff $75 Supporting Family (Community) $150 Leadership Membership Levels Members who join annually at the following leadership levels will receive all benefits of individual membership, plus members have the unique opportunity to provide additional philanthropic support to the NC State University Libraries' community. Young Alumni Sustaining: $250 Available to NC State University alumni who graduated within 10 years (undergraduate degree) or 5 years (graduate degree) of joining. Sponsor a digital bookplate within the NC State University Libraries collections. Sustaining: $500 Available to all members of the NC State University and broader communities. Sponsor a digital bookplate within the NC State University Libraries collections. Director's Circle: $1,000 Recognition through NC State University's Chancellor's Circle, with invitations to University-wide events. Sponsor a digital bookplate within the NC State University Libraries collections. Scholars Level: $2,500 Recognition through NC State University’s Chancellor’s Circle, with invitations to University-wide events. A portion of membership will directly benefit our textbook and technology lending programs. Life Member: $5,000 Membership in the Friends of the Libraries, including the above benefits, for the donor’s lifetime. Recognition through the NC State University’s Chancellor’s Circle during the year in which the gift was made with invitations to University-wide events. A portion of membership will directly benefit scholarship funds for a Libraries' student worker. Early access to information on unique Libraries programming and events. Life membership entails a one-time gift of $5,000 or cumulative giving of $10,000 over 3 years. Join Now Do more with the Friends of the Libraries Friends Events and Programs LEARN MORE Friends Board of Directors MEET THE BOARD Volunteer with the Libraries GET INVOLVED Corporate Partners Program GET INFORMED Friends Life Members LEARN MORE Giving and Philanthropy LEARN MORE Our Staff Allison Hughes Program Coordinator (919) 515-2841 Jeremy Allen Executive Director of Development Upcoming Events Sign up for occasional emails about programs and events. Subscribe Jun 12 WKNC Presents: Truth Club, Bleary Eyed, Infinity Crush at the Library Loading Dock 6:00pm to 7:00pm Jun 14 Friends of the Libraries Hill Library Tour 5:30pm to 7:30pm All events Recent Library Stories A literal blast from the past The Libraries, now playing on ESPN Read more Focus Magazine | All Issues The vMLK Project Fall/Winter 2021-22 The Libraries helps digital scholars expand Dr. King’s legacy and message Read it FOL News | all news TECHNICIAN 100: Celebrating a Century of Student Journalism at NC State Now Open in the Hill Library Exhibit Gallery Contact Information Friends of the Libraries, Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-2841 libraries_friends@ncsu.edu Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×