Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Students > Commencement Academic Calendar Academic Support & Resources Student Life Policies and Procedures Commencement Contact Commencement Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To that end, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status in order to attend in-person Commencement events this May. Vaccination cards will be checked upon entry to all outdoor and indoor venues. Columbia University Commencement Wednesday, May 18, 2022 10:30am – 12:00pm (Graduates Line-Up at 7:45am) Morningside Campus Low Plaza Columbia University holds one commencement per year in May for all graduates. The university-wide ceremony is held on the Morningside campus in the quad. All Columbia Nursing degree candidates are invited and encouraged to participate in University Commencement. Academic regalia (cap and gown) is required for all degree candidates. All graduating students are required to register online to participate in University Commencement and to obtain guest tickets (2 guests tickets allowed per graduate). Guests are required to present tickets to access the ceremony. Visit the Columbia University Commencement site. Columbia Nursing Graduation Ceremony Tuesday, May 17, 2022 10:00am – 1:00pm (Graduates Line-Up at 8:45am) The New Balance Track & Field Center at the Armory, Arena 216 Fort Washington Avenue at West 168th St Columbia Nursing holds a ceremony for nursing graduates each May. February, May and October 2022 graduates are invited to attend the 2022 Columbia Nursing Graduation Ceremony. Academic regalia is required for all MS and Doctoral degree candidates. Graduating students must register to attend the Nursing Graduation Ceremony and to obtain guest tickets, if desired. Each degree candidate may request up to 6 guest tickets. Graduating students will receive further registration and ticketing information in April. For directions, view The New Balance Track & Field website: Map and Directions Important Information for Graduates and Guests Graduating Students Communications and Ticketing Information Graduating students are being sent information via email. As a reminder, graduating students must register to attend and request guest tickets for both the University Commencement and the Columbia Nursing Graduation Ceremony by Friday, May 13, 2022 at 5:00pm ET. If you are a graduating student and have not received the information, please email the Office of Student Services at OSSNursing@cumc.columbia.edu. Information Regarding Children on Campus Children are welcome at University Commencement and at the Columbia Nursing Graduation Ceremony. All children over the age of three must have a ticket to attend and children over the age of five must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status. Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Columbia campuses, all graduates, visiting alumni and guests over the age of five must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated for medical, religious, or other reasons will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test (an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Additionally, unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a face mask during all events. Note that this event policy is dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan. COVID-19 Safety & Vaccination Requirement Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Columbia campuses, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a mask during all events. Event health and safety policies are dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan and subject to change. Please click here for the most current information. Master’s Degree Candidates: Gown, Cap, Tassel Master’s candidates at Columbia University and its affiliated institutions wear a cap (mortarboard) with tassel and gown. No hood is worn. Master’s degree candidates purchase souvenir student regalia (items are yours to keep) and you do not need to pre-order your gown. There are two ways to receive your regalia: Morningside Bookstore: Students can purchase their regalia on site beginning March 8. Pre-ordering is not necessary for Master’s gowns. Gowns can be picked up at the Morningside Bookstore until Commencement day (though students are encouraged to pick up their regalia early). Order Online to be shipped (online ordering accepted from 3/14-4/27): Out-of-town students can have their gown shipped to them (for a fee) through the Morningside Bookstore. Visit the Morningside Columbia University Bookstore website for information, including deadlines, cost, and or to place an order. For Assistance Purchasing Regalia, call the Columbia University Bookstore at 212-854-6145 or visit the Columbia University Bookstore website. Grad Fair Dates: Morningside Campus Bookstore: March 8-10, 2022 | 11:00am - 7:00pm CUIMC Campus Bookstore: March 11, 2022 | 11:00am - 4:00pm Doctoral Degree Candidates: Gown, Velvet Tam, Hood Doctoral graduates wear a gown, velvet tam, and hood. Velvet tams must be purchased. Students will need to indicate which program they are graduating from when ordering regalia since this determines the color of the hood: Doctor of Philosophy (PhD): Standard PhD blue hoods Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP): Apricot hoods with green cord lining Doctoral Gown Rental: Doctoral students can be measured for their gown and place their doctoral gown order at either Grad Fair. Gowns can be picked up at the Morningside Columbia University Bookstore located at 2922 Broadway. Rental gowns must be returned to the bookstore. Gowns must be ordered by March 31 to ensure they are received before graduation. Visit the Morningside Columbia University Bookstore website for information, including deadlines, cost, and or to place an order. For Assistance Purchasing Regalia, call the Columbia University Bookstore at 212-854-6145 or visit the Columbia University Bookstore website. Grad Fair Dates: Morningside Campus Bookstore: March 8-10, 2022 | 11:00am - 7:00pm CUIMC Campus Bookstore: March 11, 2022 | 11:00am - 4:00pm Live Stream of the Columbia Nursing Graduation Ceremony For family and friends that cannot attend, a live webcast will be available for viewing during the Graduation Ceremony. The live webcast can be accessed using the link below: 2022 Columbia University School of Nursing Graduation Ceremony Livestream Photography Island Photography will be providing the photo coverage for our commencement ceremony. Island photography provides a registration page where students may submit details ahead of time to receive proofs. They can be contacted at custserv@islandphoto.com with any questions. Disability Services Guests with disabilities, limited mobility, or the elderly needing assistance should enter the New Balance Track and Field Center (Armory) at 216 Fort Washington Avenue. Event Host staff will have wheelchairs available to help escort guests needing assistance to the seating area. No reservation is required for assistance or for seating. If you haven't already, students, and their guests, requiring accommodations during University Commencement or school graduation ceremonies, including graduates whose disabilities limit their ability to walk or negotiate stairs, should contact Disability Services at access@columbia.edu or at 212-854-2388. Directions, Parking Information, and Travel Resource Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC) is located west of Broadway on 168th Street. The School of Nursing Graduation Ceremony is held at The New Balance Track & Field Center at the Armory, Arena (216 Fort Washington Avenue at West 168th Street). Parking on campus is extremely limited on campus. This is especially compounded during Commencement like events when thousands of additional guests visit our campus. Guests are encouraged to take public transportation; information on alternative transportation (instead of driving) is available here. Including but not limited to: Public Transportation such as the MTA Bus and Subway system Bicycle Train or Interstate Bus Visitors and Personal Travel Resource https://www.worldtravelinc.com/columbia.visitors.portal Columbia University offers negotiated car and hotel rates for campus visitors. To book a car or hotel reservation new users must create an account to access the Visitors Online Booking Tool. Registered users may sign in to the Visitors Online Booking Tool to book Columbia negotiated rates or to change/cancel an existing reservation. Visitor and personal travel may only be booked online and users must carefully review details, rules and cancellation policies of each hotel and car rental supplier prior to completing a booking as some rates selected may be completely non-refundable and non-changeable. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top