Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Early Childhood and Special Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Early Childhood Education and Special Education MEd Temple University’s Master of Education in Early Childhood Education and Special Education puts you on the path to earning specialized credentials, plus a Pennsylvania Instructional I Certificate. By successfully completing the program, you’ll earn Temple’s recommendation to receive Instructional I teacher certification. You will also develop the expertise to earn Early Childhood (PreK through grade 4) and Special Education (PreK through grade 8) teacher certification. In addition to core theory and techniques in reading/literacy, math, science and social studies instruction, you will learn how to educate students with special educational needs in a way that addresses their individual differences. The study of learning processes allows students to understand individual differences in intelligence, cognitive development and self-regulation, as well as their role in learning. Whether a child has autism, ADHD or another special educational need, you will acquire the expertise to help them overcome it by assessing the child’s educational needs, creating inclusive classroom settings and practices, developing appropriate instructional strategies, and managing the classroom through positive behavior support. Your coursework will also help you gain a firm foundation in the theory of child and adolescent development, get a solid overview of the problems educational psychologists address, and master the techniques for teaching English to children who speak other languages. Teacher Certification This program prepares you to pass the teacher certification exams to become certified as an early childhood education grades PreK through grade 4 teacher and as a special education PreK through grade 8 teacher. Certification is your license to teach in Pennsylvania. You will also earn Temple’s recommendation to receive the Pennsylvania Instructional I Certificate. Learn more about this certificate and the certification process. Fieldwork In addition to state certification exams and student teaching, you must complete field experiences as part of your coursework. Field placements are designed to give you teaching experience working with children in educational and non-educational settings. The majority of field experiences require students to spend seven full days over the course of a semester in the classroom. During the student teaching semester, students are required to spend every day in the classroom for 14 weeks. Related Graduate Degrees Early Childhood Education MEd Education PhD with a concentration in Special Education Middle Grades Education MEd Secondary Education MEd Special Education MEd Related Graduate Certificates Autism Endorsement English as a Second Language Instructional Learning Technology Review the full list of the College of Education and Human Development’s graduate degree and graduate certificate programs. Classes & Curriculum The master’s program consists of 46 credits, including two foundational courses: Child and Adolescent Development and Problems in Educational Psychology, a seminar series. Students also complete 15 credits of coursework in early childhood instruction and 15 credits of special education coursework, including Classroom Management and Positive Behavior Support. Most courses are held on Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia, though some online and hybrid options are available. Main Campus courses are held in the evening starting at 5:30 p.m. You can attend full- or part-time, and you have up to four years to complete the program. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Early Childhood Education and Special Education MEd. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You'll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Students can join the Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association, which hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Search for additional College of Education and Human Development and education-related student organizations. Program Contact Annemarie Hindman, associate professor of psychological studies in education, is the faculty program coordinator of the Early Childhood and Special Education MEd. Phone: 215-204-5589 Email: annemarie.hindman@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Certification This program is approved as a teacher certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-EDSE-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Early Childhood and Special Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info