Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact SC Master Naturalist Program VISION Empowering individuals to cultivate ecological awareness and action. MISSION To provide nature-based education that inspires citizen volunteers to promote environmental stewardship within their communities. GOALS Engage citizen volunteers through science-based training and place-based, experiential environmental education. Promote awareness of natural resources by teaching the geological, floral, and faunal components of ecosystems. Foster stewardship of natural systems by connecting ecology and the impacts of humans on the landscape. Encourage community service by providing training on how to protect, preserve, and restore biodiversity through volunteer opportunities. What is a Master Naturalist? A Master Naturalist is a person who has undergone specific training and who regularly volunteers time toward various projects. Typically, Master Naturalists seek to make a difference in helping to maintain the quality of our native ecosystems through training designed to help 'read' the landscape of the state. This includes understanding the underlying geology, specific inhabitants (birds, plants, mammals, etc.), ecology and the impacts of humans on the landscape including how we conserve our amazing natural environments. Once trained, Master Naturalists volunteer in a variety of projects. In essence, the Master Naturalist program aims to turn out volunteer citizen scientists who can positively impact the natural resources of the state. What do Master Naturalists do? Individuals who participate in the program bring diverse skills and experiences that contribute time, energy and ideas in maintaining the native eco-systems throughout the South. After receiving training, Master Naturalists may participate in many different types of volunteer activities. These might include assisting in a nature outreach program at a park, museum, nature center or school; assisting a scientist collecting bird census data; collecting data on water quality or many others. How can I become a Master Naturalist? Both official Master Naturalist training and 30 volunteer service hours per year are required to become a Master Naturalist. You can obtain training through Host site training centers hosted at various places around the state. Volunteer opportunities are offered through Host Sites, Master Naturalist associations or through local parks and preserves. Home Training Advanced Training Volunteering Contact Us SC Master Naturalist Merchandise Stores SC Master Naturalist Course and Advanced Training Registration A South Carolina Natural History Primer Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request