Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus News Celebrating the National Pan-Hellenic Council’s Divine Nine at UCF Earlier this month, the National Panhellenic Council, which fosters community among students through its Black Greek-letter organizations UCF Football Venue to Become FBC Mortgage Stadium Effective July 1 through the 2031 football season, UCF’s stadium will be branded under the Orlando-based, top 20 national mortgage lender. Turning Events into Careers UCF’s new master’s program in event leadership will bring a world of experience to the epicenter of this fast-growing industry. UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches this fall with a new host. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives A UCF Study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate and to collect information to deploy emergency resources where needed most. How to Prepare for Hurricane Season From what to include in your hurricane kit to how to stay informed on updates from the university, here’s what you should know. ‘Brain-on-a-Chip’ Technology Advances Toward a New Form of Drug Screening Brain-on-a-chip simulated models hold the potential to revolutionize and accelerate the way new drugs are discovered. Research in 60 Seconds Video: Examining Effective Crisis Communication Pegasus Professor Timothy Sellnow, who teaches in the Nicholson School of Communication and Media, researches the importance and impact of simply using the right words during a crisis. UCF Med School’s Historic Milestone — 10th Graduating Class UCF’s medical school has now graduated 956 doctors and has gained a national reputation for its excellence, innovation and pioneering spirit as it helps build an emerging Medical City at Lake Nona. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida