COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Office of Diversity and Inclusion Section Menu Home About Us Events Student Employment Contact Us Ambassadors for Diversity and Inclusion Diversity Training LGBTQ+ Promoting Academic Student Success Support Groups Awards & Ceremonies Multicultural Scholarship Index Resources Inclusive Excellence Your Home Away From Home! The Office of Diversity and Inclusion aims to cultivate and sustain an inclusive campus. We strive for academic excellence by creating an environment that educates, empowers and mobilizes our students, campus and community. In our community, our members view themselves as ambassadors for fundamental freedoms and respect the differences in others. The office provides dynamic programs, which range from speakers and film showings to award ceremonies, cultural festivities and LGBTQA programming — each representing a small piece of the diversity displayed on the WSU campus. Learn more about the office! COVID-19 Information WSU COVID Bulletins Student Health COVID-19 Page Students remain our top priority. As we are returning back to in-person programming, we want you to know that the Office of Diversity and Inclusion remains committed to your health and safety. While you experience things returning back to the way it was, we hope you understand that our office will continue to take precautionary measures to provide a safe environment as much as possible. We hope you continue to work hard to be successful throughout this transition. Please see the following adjustments as we return to normal operations: Regular services will be offered in the office, such as utilizing the computer lab for free printing, hanging out in the lounge and kitchenette area and meeting with staff members via appointment In-person programs will be available, in addition to hosting some virtual events on campus Specialized advising appointments will continue through live chat (via Microsoft Teams and/or Zoom Video Conferencing Services), phone or email. In-person appointments should be scheduled in advance; view our staff directory PASS Tutoring Services will continue as scheduled through in-person meetings and/or teleconferencing methods; contact your current tutor for more information or submit a tutor request Events Ambassadors for Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Training Inclusive Excellence LGBTQ+ Multicultural Scholarship Index Promoting Academic Student Success Support Groups Black Excellence Black Excellence is a newly launched platform that will provide resources to build on culture, tradition and intersectionality to support academics, identities and social excellence for students. In this platform, students will be provided campus resources, professional development, academic support, connections to Black faculty, staff and alumni, and a Living Learning Community for those living on-campus. Latinos Lead Latinos Lead is a program that focuses on facilitating a seamless transition from college to the workforce by focusing on three areas, including cultural awareness, personal development and leadership skills. Students will gain improved self-awareness across leadership competencies, access to a cross-sector and multi-industry network of Latino professionals and enhance their career presence and personal brand. Your Best Path to Shocker Nation! Are you an incoming first-year student who plans to attend Wichita State University? Passage 2 Success (P2S) is a week-long retreat for incoming freshmen from diverse backgrounds to help in their transition to Wichita State University! The purpose of this retreat is to connect with other incoming students, meet current WSU student leaders, explore Wichita and gain the skills and tools to be socially and academically successful. This program will be hosted the week before classes begin, with the option of early move-in for those living on campus. Dates: August 13-18, 2022 Learn More Connect With Us Get connected, get curious and learn all the ways you can get involved with diversity and inclusion at Wichita State University! 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©