Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship The Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship seeks to provide undergraduate students with transformative opportunities to broaden their perspectives and interact with the world through artistic, academic and cultural experiences outside their current communities. meet the Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship Cohorts Structure The Fellowship provides funding for: Engaged scholarship, artistic, and research projects around the world. Presenting at global conferences, arts events and symposiums. Participating in programs of study offered by appropriate nonprofit organizations. Engaging in academically grounded community engagement partnerships. Fellowships should be significantly student-directed. They may be in partnership with a faculty mentor, a community-based organization, or community members. Fellowship projects may be individual or collaborative projects, and grants can be to individual or student group applications. Fellowship awards will be granted at four levels: $750 - typically for short-term projects or conference participation. $1500 - typically for time-intensive projects, perhaps during Winter Session. $3000 - typically for multi-week or month-long projects, perhaps during the summer. $5000 – typically for substantial projects involving distant travel or collaborative student projects guiliano fellows around the world Eligibility & Requirements To be considered for the Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship, proposals must meet the following criteria: Travel must be to a place you have never been to before. Experiences must take place at least 200 miles from Providence and from student's “home.” Fellowship travel must occur prior to the completion of a student’s final on-campus semester. A Fellowship report is required for all funded projects upon completion. This should include a written narrative as well as media (photos, video, audio, etc.) that describes the project and its impact on student learning. Students must create and maintain a profile on BrownEngage as well as upload their Fellowship report to the portal. As with all Brown-sponsored travel abroad, fellows are required to register travel plans in TravelSafe, Brown’s international travel registry. Additionally, all fellowship travel must adhere to Brown’s High-Risk and Restricted Travel Policies. Depending on the destination students may be required to complete a Safety Plan and obtain approval from the International Travel Risk Assessment Committee (ITRAC) prior to making travel arrangements. For more information and to review the international travel policies, please visit the international travel risk management website. Students agree to participate in one-to-three post-project meetings for each cohort of award winners for reflection and development of learning related to project activities. Students agree to have winning proposals, final reports, and associated media shared publicly. Apply The Guiliano Fellowship accepts applications twice yearly – in the fall and spring – on Ufunds. -- Special Guidelines for Academic Year 2021-22 -- At this time, Fellows are encouraged to pursue domestic opportunities as domestic travel is unrestricted under current university policies. Nonetheless, all proposals will be considered but must comply with university travel policies, https://healthy.brown.edu/travel-policies Additionally, the fellowship will continue to make awards with increased flexibility during the pandemic. Fellows may have the option to accept the award and engage in their projects remotely or defer receiving their award until University's policies support expanded undergraduate student travel. The application includes: A description of the proposed project. A proposed budget, including any other sources of funding being used for a project. A description of the anticipated project outcomes. Applications are selected using a rubric that rates applications based on valuing the following criteria: Transformative potential: The proposal shows evidence of the student pushing personal, academic, or creative boundaries. The project outlines a potentially transformational experience that could not be replicated locally or without fellowship support. The fellowship provides the student with an opportunity that they might otherwise not be able to have. Creativity/Innovation: The project shows evidence of individual originality and drive. Ideas are combined in interesting and surprising ways to discover information, address an issue, or make something new. Clarity: The proposal clearly indicates the purpose, goals, and methods used to achieve the desired outcome. Connectedness: The project is important to the student’s artistic, academic, or community engagement goals, connecting relevant experience and knowledge to deepen their understanding and broaden their worldview. Overall merits of the project: The project is socially, intellectually or artistically compelling and/or significant. Relevance of the budget: Financial requirements are clearly indicated. The request is reasonable and demonstrates effective cost management. Costs are broken down by category and budget amount. APPLICATION DEADLINE: The Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship is awarded twice yearly in the fall and spring. The deadline for the spring is Wednesday, February 23, 2022, at 12 noon ET. Decisions will be announced by March 11, 2022. Apply Contact Click here to find more information about the fellowship and past fellowship projects. For further information or questions, contact Steve Pokorny, program manager, [email protected]. Celebrating the Class of 2022. read> Celebrating the Class of 2021. read> See All Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship Stories FAQmeet the Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship Cohorts Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat