Emergency Notification More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Human Resources About Employment Compensation Benefits Professional Development Quick Links After Hours Child Care Compliance & Ethics Hotline Dartmouth Health Connect Educational Assistance Employee Discounts Employee Recognition Employment Policies & Procedures Faculty/Employee Assistance Program (F/EAP) Forms Holidays & Winter Break Human Resources Consultants Jobs Labor Condition Application Notifications New Employee Resources Payroll Office Performance Evaluations Student Employment Talent Acquisition Consultants Wellness Weather Policy Worker's Compensation Search this Site Home > Child Care Finding Childcare Child care resource and referral agencies in both NH and VT provide referrals and other services to families seeking child care. They also provide information on choosing child care, child development, child care scholarships and state regulations. Vermont: The Family Place Phone: 802-649-3268 New Hampshire: Child Care Aware of New Hampshire Phone: 603-578-1386 Other resources for parents may be found on the Dartmouth College Child Care Center website. If you are affiliated with Dartmouth College, you may contact the DCCCC for assistance at 603-646-6610 or dcccc@dartmouth.edu. Dartmouth College Child Care Center (DCCCC) Web: www.dartmouth.edu/~dcccc/ E-mail: dcccc@dartmouth.edu Phone: 603-646-6610 DCCCC is located at 21 Reservoir Road in Hanover and has the capacity to provide daytime care to 86 children ages 6 weeks to 6 years. Further operating information and the fee scale for the Center are contained in the Application for Enrollment document (available to download below). The purpose of the Center is to meet the daytime child care needs of College personnel by providing a warm, stimulating, safe and reliable environment for the care of young children. The Center's programming includes anti-bias curriculum, and a commitment to respect the individuality of each child and to celebrate the enrichment of our lives through our diversity. Staffing ratios and all other policies and procedures are in accordance with the standards for child care licensing and regulations established by the New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services . Our Philosophy DCCCC is committed to promoting the growth of the whole child by tending to each child's physical, emotional, social and intellectual development. Teaching teams work in cooperation with families to produce an encouraging and supportive environment. Children are recognized and respected as individuals with unique and diverse family values and backgrounds. Children are given the opportunity to develop at their own pace in a nurturing, play-based environment that provides for their physical and emotional health and safety. Children are encouraged to make choices and develop independence while learning to be responsible members of the community. The enrollment application, fee scale, and other forms are available on the DCCCC Web site. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 7/24/18