Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Academic Careers Careers Academic Careers More in this Section Explore Academic Careers: Academic Fellows Program Academic Scholars Program Columbia Scholars Program Careers in Law Teaching As a premier research institution, Columbia Law offers extensive resources, counseling, programs, and support for students and alumni interested in exploring careers in legal academia. Columbia Law graduates hold positions at top schools across the globe. Academic Fellows The Academic Fellows Program supports future legal academics as they prepare to go on the law teaching job market through teaching opportunities, research and writing advisement, scholarship critique, and mentorship from Columbia Law faculty. Learn More Academic Scholars The Academic Scholars Program identifies and provides academic and financial support for J.D. candidates with strong potential and ambition to become law professors. Learn More Careers in Law Teaching The Careers in Law Teaching program guides students and alumni interested in an academic career with a broad range of programming, contacts, and essential resources to prepare for the highly competitive market of law school teaching. Learn More Recent Graduate Teaching Placements: Boston College Law School Brigham Young University Law School Columbia Law School Cornell Law School Georgetown University Law Center The George Washington University Law School Harvard Law School King’s College London Princeton University Santa Clara Law School University of California Berkeley School of Law University of Pennsylvania Law School University of Richmond School of Law University of Texas at Austin School of Law University of Washington School of Law Villanova Law School Wake Forest University Law School Washington College of Law at American University William and Mary Law School Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.