Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close About Harvard Supporting our mission About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Harvard is funded, in part, by an endowment. The endowment includes thousands of philanthropic gifts donated since Harvard’s early history, many of which were given to support specific aspects of Harvard’s teaching and research work. Together, these gifts form a permanent source of funding that connects scholars and learners from many diverse backgrounds with opportunities at Harvard, now and into the future. Learn about Harvard’s endowment Endowment at work Our endowment supports many aspects of our work, from student financial aid to neighborhood programs, from museum and library preservation to campus activities, from faculty and fellow positions to scientific advancement. Read more about what our endowment makes possible A future trust Harvard’s endowment has existed for nearly four centuries and belongs to current and future generations of Harvard students, faculty, and researchers. It supports almost every aspect of the University’s work. Read Harvard’s 2021 Annual Financial Report $5 billion the University’s annual operating expenses in the 2021 fiscal year. 14,000+ different funds make up Harvard’s endowment. $597 million granted in financial aid and scholarships in the 2021 fiscal year. 70% of the endowment’s annual distribution is restricted to specific programs, departments, or purposes. $53.2 billion the size of Harvard University’s endowment in the 2021 fiscal year. Endowment FAQs What is an endowment? An endowment is a dedicated source of long-term funding, made up of donated gifts, that supports the mission and work of a philanthropic organization like a university. Each year, a portion of the endowment is paid out as an annual distribution to fund the organization’s work. Any appreciation in excess of this annual distribution is retained in the endowment so it can grow and support future generations. Harvard’s endowment is nearly as old as the University itself. In 1638, minister John Harvard of Charlestown died and left his library and half his estate to the recently-established institution of higher learning that would become Harvard University. Since then, many more donors have contributed generously to Harvard’s endowment. The endowment’s annual distributions are a critical source of funding for the University, making up more than a third of Harvard’s revenue each year, the largest single revenue stream. In this way, the endowment bridges the gap between revenue that is brought in from tuition and research grants, and the critical costs associated with the University’s teaching and research activities. To learn more about sources of operating revenue, please visit our Financial Overview page. Why is an endowment important? Many endowments, including Harvard’s, are structured to exist in perpetuity, meaning that the institution must continue to rely on the endowment’s earnings forever. Because of this, our endowment is not only for today’s generation, but is for all future generations of Harvard students and scholars. Guided by this principle of intergenerational equity, Harvard’s endowment is carefully managed in order to ensure that future generations will enjoy its benefits just as much as the current one. What does Harvard’s endowment support? Harvard’s endowment is crucial to our excellence in teaching, learning, and research, as well as the University’s purpose-driven initiatives and partnerships on campus, in our neighboring communities, and all over the world. Connected to a long tradition of philanthropy, the endowment supports an incredible range of activities and work, including student aid, faculty positions, groundbreaking research, the arts, community programs, and much more. The endowment’s support for operations enabled Harvard to grant $597 million in financial aid and scholarships in the 2021 fiscal year alone. Are there constraints on endowment funds? Harvard’s endowment is made up of more than 14,000 individual funds, the majority of which are “restricted.” This means that donors have specified that their gift must support a particular aspect of the University’s work, from specific scientific research to named professorships and dedicated scholarships. These philanthropic gifts are critical to many areas of our work, each with a unique person and story behind it. The Harvard Endowment “Harvard’s endowment should be a leader in shaping pathways to a sustainable future. It will require us to work with experts in economics and finance, investment managers, and other willing partners to develop tools to monitor the carbon footprint associated with Harvard’s varied portfolio of externally managed investments.” Lawrence Bacow, President, Harvard University Learn about Harvard’s action on climate change Centuries of giving hard at work Our endowment belongs to current and future generations of students and scholars whose curiosity and leadership are shaping our world. These stories are just a few examples of how endowed gifts support their work. ArtLab During her 2021 residency at this hub of innovation and creativity, Harvard music professor and Grammy Award–winning artist Esperanza Spalding brings together musicians and medical researchers to explore music as a tool for healing. Explore the ArtLab Embedded EthiCS “We want to send the message that ethical reasoning is part of what you do as a computer scientist,” says Alison Simmons, one of the faculty members leading the project to bring philosophers and computer scientists together. Learn more about Embedded EthiCS Climate Change Solutions Fund A new approach to removing atmospheric carbon dioxide. A digital platform to expand access to data on the health impacts of climate change. High-efficiency air conditioning systems that cool indoor spaces without heating the world. These are just a few examples of recent projects supported by this fund. Explore the fund Financial aid In 2013, David Velasquez became the first person in his family to attend college. In 2024, he will become the first person ever to graduate from Harvard Medical School, Harvard Business School, and Harvard Kennedy School. Through the generosity of donors, financial aid and scholarships make it possible for extraordinary students like Velasquez to attend Harvard en route to becoming innovators in their fields and leaders in their communities. Explore Harvard College's financial aid Johnson-Kulukundis Family President’s Fund for the Arts This fund is instrumental in cultivating artistic growth and supporting wide-ranging artistic experiences—from public art like Teresita Fernández’s Autumn (…Nothing Personal) to dance residencies to symposia to multifaceted website archival projects. Learn more about the art installation Bloomberg Center for Cities This newly endowed center will strengthen the capabilities of mayors and their teams, advance effective organizational practices in city halls around the world, support a new generation of public servants, and produce new research and instructional materials that will help city leaders. Read more about the center Mindich Program By integrating academics with community engagement and public service this program has assisted students like Nhu Dang ’21, who was inspired to serve her local community by volunteering at First Fruits Farm, where she harvested food for distribution to pantries and homeless shelters across Maryland. Learn more about the program Star-Friedman Challenge By providing seed funding for high-risk, high-impact work in the life, physical, and social sciences this program can support research by people like recent award recipient Francesca Dominici, who led a team that uncovered a link between exposure to air pollution and COVID-19 deaths. Learn more about the challenge Give to Harvard Whether you’re interested in supporting our academic programs, our library and museum collections, our climate change action, or other aspects of our mission—your gift matters. Help strengthen and support Harvard’s work now and in the future. Give now Endowment news Harvard endowment to go greenhouse gas-neutral by 2050 Harvard releases annual financial report with a look ahead University reports budget surplus despite pandemic challenges The Gazette spoke with Executive Vice President Katie Lapp and Chief Financial Officer and Vice President for Finance Thomas Hollister to learn more about how the University’s performance got a boost from long-term planning, leadership at the School level, and the commitment of so many within the community to Harvard’s mission to teaching and learning. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00