Skip to main content Menu Search Any Questions or Concerns Please know that that Office of Education is here to help! Use the information down below to determine who you should contact for your particular question or concern. Virtual Office Hours Academic Affairs, Student Life, Support & General Questions Members of the Office of Student Affairs and Academic Records teams are currently taking appointment upon request. Please email us with a summary of what you'd like to discuss at msph-osa@cumc.columbia.edu and we will schedule an appointment.. Dean of Students Office Hours Join the Dean of Students, Sandi Bernal-Garcia, for weekly (Thursdays) open office hours. She will answer questions, offer insights, and chat with any interested student! Register in advance. Careers and Practice Career Services Career Services is offering Virtual Walk-in Hours every Wednesday and Friday from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. ET. Appointments can be scheduled on CareerLink. Field Practice Field Practice is offering Virtual Walk-in Hours every Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 12:50 p.m. ET. Visit CourseWorks for Zoom information. Individual Appointments are always available for student convenience. Request an appointment by emailing availability to msph-ofp@cumc.columbia.edu. Diversity, Culture and Inclusion Dean Raygine DiAquoi and Diversity, Culture and Inclusion is offering Office Hours by appointment every Wednesday and Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. ET. Appointments can be scheduled scheduled here. Student Academic Records If you have challenges with your course registration, the StARS (Student Academic Records & Standards) Team is here to assist. Many registration matters can be easily resolved via email. Please reach out to us and provide as much details as possible in your written correspondence. The StARS Team will triage these requests and resolve them directly via email or connect you with a team member to assist you one-on-one. Student Support If you need to address any personal or social-emotional concerns or want to arrange disability accommodations, schedule an appointment with Student Support Services by contacting: All student support questions/concerns: Sarah Tooley, Director of Student Support at st3146@cumc.columbia.edu. Formal Accommodations & Programming questions/concerns: Meredith Ryer, Assistant Director of Student Support/ODS Liaison at mr4075@cumc.columbia.edu. MPH Core Curriculum If you have trouble with MPH Core curriculum or another PUBH course, please contact the Office of Educational Initiatives. Financial Aid If you have questions about your financial aid package, budgeting, etc., please schedule an appointment with our Financial Aid Team or you can reach out to them via email at sphfinaid@columbia.edu Scrolled down and not sure where to start? If you're not sure where to begin, always feel free to start with the Office of Student Affairs at msph-osa@cumc.columbia.edu. Contact List Academic Records and Standards ERIC RATNER Director of Student Academic Affairs Questions about: Degree completion, Degree requirements, 4+1 Program, University and School Policies (student handbook) Email: emr2211@cumc.columbia.edu LILLIAN MORALES Associate Director of Academic Records and Standards Questions about: Course registration (add/drops, change in grading option), academic calendar, graduation and degree clearance Email: lm31@cumc.columbia.edu PAUL MCCULLOUGH Coordinator of Educational Programs Questions about: Course schedule, Course registration (add/drops, change in grading option) Email: pm2692@cumc.columbua.edu Student Support and Student Life SARAH TOOLEY Director of Student Support Questions about: All student support questions or concerns Email: st3146@cumc.columbia.edu MEREDITH RYDER Assistant Director of Student Support Questions about: Formal Accommodations & Support Programming Email: mr4075@cumc.columbia.edu CHRISTINA FERRARI Assistant Director of Student Life Questions about: Student life, Student groups, RISE program, co-curricular programming, Engage Email: cmf2198@cumc.columbia.edu SANDI BERNAL GARCIA Dean of Students Questions about: Any student concern Email: sb64@cumc.columbia.edu Financial Aid Charles Liriano Assistant Director of Financial Aid Questions about: Financial Aid, Scholarships, Budgeting Email: cl2281@cumc.columbia.edu Eric halperin Financial Aid Officer II Questions about: Financial Aid, Outside payments, Veterans Benefits Email: eh2549@cumc.columbia.edu MPH Curriculum Lauren Westley Director of Education Questions about: Core Schedule, Core Faculty and TAs, Core Curriculum Email: law2171@cumc.columbia.edu Troy Hoffman Assistant Director of Education Questions about: Core Schedule, Certificates, Examsoft Email: th2654@cumc.columbia.edu Online Learning Student Online Learning Toolkit Toolkit: Attending Class Online With Zoom Technical Support: CUIMC IT Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers