Cornell Center for Materials Research | An NSF MRSEC Diversity Research PREM Seed: Collaborative Research and Education in Energy Materials (CREEM) IRG-1 Mechanisms, Materials, and Devices for Spin Manipulation IRG-2 Structured Materials for Strong Light-Matter Interactions IRG-3 Atomic Membranes for 3D Systems Seed Projects – Exploratory Research Acknowledging CCMR Funding Science Slams Facilities Becoming a CCMR Facility User Instruments CCMR FOM FAQs CCMR Shared Facility Policies Shared Facility User Fees, NDAs, etc. Industry CCMR Symposium Facilities 101 CCMR Industrial Programs CCMR Invest and Invest-NY for Industry Partners JumpStart Program for NY State Small Businesses CCMR Analytical Facilities CAT Projects with NY State Industry Partners MEng Projects With NY State Industry Partners Student Internships Education Remote Learning Resources Lending Library of Experiments Ask a Scientist K-12 Student Programs Community Programs Educational Resources Graduate and Undergraduate Programs Teacher Programs About Accessibility Leadership Administrative Staff Shared Facility Staff Faculty Membership News Directions and Travel Information History Internal Site Map Quicklinks CCMR Shared Facility Instruments available to any researcher CCMR Shared Facility Becoming a facility user Remote STEM Learning Resources Check out videos, lesson plans and resources CCMR Funded Research World-leading research collaborations and seed research Acknowledging CCMR Funding A quick guide to appropriate CCMR recognition Artificial cilia could someday power diagnostic devices Cornell researchers have now designed a micro-sized artificial cilial system using platinum-based components that can control the movement of fluids at the microscale. CCMR Science Slams Science slams are a method for communicating science to and engaging the general public. Watch Arjan Singh and Alice Zhang's slams representing the CCMR. Prof. David Muller is awarded the Ernst-Ruska Prize Professor David Muller is awarded the Ernst-Ruska Prize of the German Society for Electron Microscopy. Prof. Jie Shan receives the Mildred Dresselhaus Prize 2021 Prof. Jie Shan has been awarded the Mildred Dresselhaus Prize 2021 within the Mildred Dresselhaus Guest Professorship Program of the Hamburg Centre for Ultrafast Imaging (CUI). Partnership aims to increase diversity in Materials Science CCMR is partnering with N.C. A&T on a research collaboration to increase diversity in the field of Materials Science. Latest News Professor David Muller is awarded the Ernst-Ruska Prize of the German Society for Electr November 2021 Professor David Muller has been awarded the Ernst-Ruska Prize of the German Society for Electron Microscopy for his pioneering work in ultrahigh-resolution electron microscopy and electron spectroscopy. View all news Research The CCMR currently supports three Interdisciplinary Research Groups (IRGs) and a number of smaller ‘seed’ research groups through an NSF MRSEC grant and Cornell University support. Each group brings researchers from a variety of different departments together to work on an outstanding interdisciplinary problem in materials research and development. Learn More > About Mission Leadership Staff Directory History Charter News Events Facilities Becoming a New User Shared Facility Policies User Fees CCMR FOM FAQs Instruments Research Acknowledging CCMR Funding Submit Publications Education Programs Educational Resources Industry Programs Resource Links Site Map Cornell Center for Materials Research 627 Clark Hall of Science Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 T 607.255.4272 | F 607.255.3957 © 2016 CCMR. Materials from the CCMR website may not be used without permission. Support for the CCMR is provided through the NSF Grant DMR-1719875, part of the NSF MRSEC Program. Additional support is provided by Cornell University, the State of New York, and by industrial sources. Powered By: AcademicsWeb