Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE HUMAN BIOLOGY MEDICAL SCIENCE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MEDSCI 500 Foundations of Clinical Medicine (2-) Karen A. McDonough Introduction to continuity of care by working with practicing physicians and coinciding with instruction in communication skills, interviewing techniques, physical examinations, documentation, and clinical reasoning. Includes hospital-based patient encounters with an introduction to the development of the physician role. Pass/Fail only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 500 MEDSCI 501 P-Independent Investigative Inquiry (6-) Independent research with faculty sponsor and completion of paper in fulfillment of the independent investigative inquiry graduation requirement. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 501 MEDSCI 502 Foundations of Clinical Medicine (-3-) Karen A. McDonough Introduction to continuity of care by working with practicing physicians and coinciding with instruction in communication skills, interviewing techniques, physical examinations, documentation, and clinical reasoning. Includes hospital-based patient encounters with an introduction to the development of the physician role. Pass/Fail only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 502 MEDSCI 503 Independent Investigative Inquiry Final Project (-1) Shobha W Stack Students will engage in a project with an in-depth focus on a health-related, thereby giving additional context to their training and career as a physician. In the process they will develop the skills to acquire and critically evaluate new information under the guidance of faculty mentorship. This will culminate in dissemination of their scholarly work through a poster presentation or a final paper depending on the type of scholarship chosen. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 503 MEDSCI 504 Foundations of Clinical Medicine (-4-) Jeanne Cawse-Lucas, Karen A. McDonough Introduction to continuity of care by working with practicing physicians and coinciding with instruction in communication skills, interviewing techniques, physical examinations, documentation, and clinical reasoning. Includes hospital-based patient encounters with an introduction to the development of the physician role. Pass/Fail only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 504 MEDSCI 505 Introduction to Telemedicine (6) John F. McCarthy, Toby Keys Gain knowledge of telemedicine and telemedicine technologies, and their practical applications to improve the health of rural and underserved populations. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 505 MEDSCI 506 Foundations of Clinical Medicine (-4) Karen A. McDonough, Jeanne Cawse-Lucas Introduction to continuity of care by working with practicing physicians and coinciding with instruction in communication skills, interviewing techniques, physical examinations, documentation, and clinical reasoning. Includes hospital-based patient encounters with an introduction to the development of the physician role. Pass/Fail only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 506 MEDSCI 507 Independent Study Investigative Inquiry (2-24, max. 24) Cynthia Sprenger Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Independent Investigative Inquiry course series offered during the preclinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 507 MEDSCI 508 Foundations of Clinical Medicine (4) Intro to continuity of care by working with practicing physicians and coinciding with instruction in communication skills, interviewing techniques, physical examinations, documentation, and clinical reasoning. Includes hospital-based patient encounters with an introduction to the development of the physician role. Topics covered in primary and preventative care, geriatrics, rehabilitation, palliative care, behavioral health, and pain management. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 508 MEDSCI 510 Fundamentals of Medical Science and Research (13) Comprehensive introduction to foundational basic science and research concepts in medicine. Topics covered include molecular and cell biology; human physiology, genetics and biochemistry; community health and disease; clinical epidemiology, research study design and data analysis. Incorporates fundamental principles of anatomy, pathology, and pharmacology, and medicine in society. Pass/Fail only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 510 MEDSCI 511 Independent Study Molecular Cellular Basis of Disease Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Molecular and cellular Basis of Diseases block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 511 MEDSCI 512 Independent Study Fundamentals of Medical Science and Research (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Fundamentals of Medical Science and Research block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 512 MEDSCI 515 Themes in Medicine- Foundations 1 (1-) Suzanne M. Allen Integrates School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 515 MEDSCI 520 Cancer, Hormones, and Blood (10) Edith Wang Comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of endocrinology, hematology, and oncology. Topics covered include endocrine regulation of metabolism; normal physiology and pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for clinically important endocrine disorders; disturbances in red cell, white cell, and platelet production; abnormalities of hemostasis; and malignant neoplasia. Pass/Fail only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 520 MEDSCI 521 Independent Study Invaders and Defenders Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Invaders and Defenders block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund knowledge. Prerequisite: Department permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 521 MEDSCI 522 Independent Study Cancer, Hormones, and Blood (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Cancer, Hormones, and Blood block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 522 MEDSCI 523 Introduction to Medicine, Health, and Society (1) Edith Wang Integrates School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of ethics, health systems, systems improvements, health equity, diversity, social determinants of health, and global population and public health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 523 MEDSCI 524 Medicine, Health, and Society (3) Edith Wang Integrates School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of ethics, health systems, systems improvements, health equity, diversity, social determinants of health, and global population and public health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 524 MEDSCI 525 Themes in Medicine- Foundations 2 (-1-) Suzanne M. Allen Integrates School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 525 MEDSCI 529 Independent Study Medicine, Health, and Society (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Introduction to Medicine, Health, and Society, and Medicine, Health, and Society blocks offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 529 MEDSCI 530 Infections and Immunity (10) Edith Wang Comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of the immune system; microbiology; infectious diseases; inflammation and repair. Topics covered include the pathogenesis and immunity of infectious disease, immunodeficiencies, hypersensitivity, autoimmunity, and the basis of immunologic diagnostics. Integrates relevant principles of anatomy, pathology, and pharmacology and medicine in society. Pass/Fail only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 530 MEDSCI 531 Independent Study Circulatory Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Circulatory block offered during the preclinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 531 MEDSCI 532 Independent Study Infections and Immunity (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Infections and Immunity block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 532 MEDSCI 535 Themes in Medicine- Foundations 3 (-1) Suzanne M. Allen Integrates School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 535 MEDSCI 540 Muscles, Joints, Bones, and Skin (8) Edith Wang Comprehensive introduction to the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system and dermatology. Topics covered include clinical manifestations in the skin, muscles, bones, and joints and the pathophysiology of trauma, aging, infection, and inflammation. Integrates relevant principles of anatomy, pathology, and pharmacology. Pass/Fail only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 540 MEDSCI 541 Independent Study Musculoskeltal Remediation (2-24, max. 24) Hank Pelto, Brian J Krabak Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required musculoskeletal block offered during the preclinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 541 MEDSCI 542 Independent Study Muscle, Joints, Bones, and Skin (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Muscles, Joints, Bones, and Skin block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 542 MEDSCI 543 Independent Study Blood and Cancer Remediation (2-24, max. 24) Sioban Keel Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Blood and Cancer block offered during the preclinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 543 MEDSCI 545 Themes in Medicine- Foundations 4 (1) Suzanne M. Allen Applies School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 545 MEDSCI 550 Cardiovascular System (8) Edith Wang Comprehensive interdisciplinary introduction to cardiovascular biology and medicine, including thoracic anatomy, physiology, radiology, pathology, pharmacology, and surgery. Topics covered include cardiac electrophysiology, cardiac muscle mechanics, myocardial infarction, and cardiac repair. Pass/Fail only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 550 MEDSCI 551 Independent Study Energetics Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Energetics block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 551 MEDSCI 552 Independent Study Cardiovascular System (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Cardiovascular System block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 552 MEDSCI 553 Air, Fluids, and, Salts (10) Sarah F. Sanghavi, Andrew M Luks Comprehensive interdisciplinary introduction to the respiratory and renal-urinary systems and medicine, including pulmonary and renal anatomy, physiology, radiology, pathology, and pharmacology. Topics covered include ventilation mechanics; obstructive, restrictive, and pulmonary-vascular diseases; renal function; and common kidney diseases. Pass/Fail only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 553 MEDSCI 554 Independent Study Air, Fluids, & Salts (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Air, Fluids, and, Salts block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 554 MEDSCI 555 Themes in Medicine- Patient Care 1 (1) Suzanne M. Allen Applies School of Medicine thematic content with an emphasis on core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 555 MEDSCI 556 Head, Neck, and Gut (8) Edith Wang Comprehensive introduction to head and neck anatomy and the gastrointestinal system. Topics covered include gastrointestinal and liver physiology; pathophysiology of digestion and hepatic function; the principles and practice of clinical nutrition. Integrates the relevant anatomy, pathology, and pharmacology of the gastrointestinal system. Pass/Fail only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 556 MEDSCI 557 Independent Study Head, Neck, and Gut (1-24, max. 24) Edith Wang Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Head, Neck, and Gut block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remediation or extended programs to master identified areas of weakness in fundamental medical knowledge. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 557 MEDSCI 560 P-Mind, Brain, and Behavior (14) Explains the foundational principles of the organization and function of the head, neck, and central nervous system with a focus on clinical application of this knowledge to systematically approach the differential diagnosis and management of major neurologic, psychiatric, and behavioral disorders. Covers current therapeutic approaches to disease including pharmacological, behavioral, surgical, and other therapies. Pass/Fail only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 560 MEDSCI 561 Independent Study Mind, Brain and Behavior Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Mind, Brain and Behavior block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 561 MEDSCI 565 Themes in Medicine- Patient Care 2 (1) Suzanne M. Allen Core concepts for clinical practice in the changing healthcare environment. Students explore areas related to humanism in medicine including the themes of diversity, health equity, ethics, and determinants of health. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 565 MEDSCI 570 P-Lifecycle (8) Covers normal and abnormal human development reproductive functions including formation and maturation of ova and sperm, menstruation, normal pregnancy, and labor and delivery. Provides information concerning infertility, family planning techniques, urinary disorders, and reproductive aging and demography of human population. Includes relevant fundamental scientific principles in pelvic anatomy, pathology, histology, imaging, and pharmacology. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 570 MEDSCI 571 Independent Study Lifecycle Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Lifecycle block offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 571 MEDSCI 575 Themes in Medicine- Explore and Focus (1) Suzanne M. Allen Provides students with a deep understanding of systems that constitute health care and are fundamental to becoming a successful physician. Encourages reflections from clinical clerkships experiences and requires the completion of a capstone project. Pass/Fail only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 575 MEDSCI 579 Comprehensive Basic Sciences Review (8) Meghan M Kiefer Involves review of basic science previously covered in the Foundations curriculum, as well as multi-system processes and disorders. Provides enhanced academic support to review foundational biomedical knowledge and develop study strategies in anticipation of Step 1 and transition to clinical phase. Pass/Fail only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 579 MEDSCI 580 P-Consolidation and Transition (11) Reinforces content in the UWSOM foundations phase. Learning experiences will address key content areas which need further review identified throughout terms 1 and 2, with specific sessions developed as indicated; faculty/staff and peer educators will provide sessions for this basic science review as well as preparation for clerkships. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 580 MEDSCI 581 P-Foundations Capstone (4) Meghan M Kiefer Reinforces content in the UWSOM Foundations phase. Large-group activities address general principles in biomedical sciences and organ systems. Pass/Fail only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 581 MEDSCI 582 P-Consolidation (10, max. 20) Meghan M Kiefer Focused course to prepare students for the USMLE Step 1. Will include large group review of study strategies and approach to integration of foundational knowledge with clinical reasoning, as well as mentored self-assessment and formation of an individualized study plan for the USMLE Step 1. Pass/Fail only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 582 MEDSCI 583 P-Transition to Clerkships (2) Meghan M Kiefer Reinforces clinical content in the UWSOM Foundations phase. Lectures and small-group activities address clinical skills and resources for clerkships, and peer educators provide strategies for success clerkships. Pass/Fail only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 583 MEDSCI 584 Independent Study Foundations of Clinical Medicine Remediation (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Foundations of Clinical Medicine offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master knowledge & skills. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 584 MEDSCI 585 Independent Study Research Methods (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Research Methods Course offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 585 MEDSCI 586 Independent Study Consolidation and Transition Remediation (1-24, max. 24) M. Kiefer Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Consolidation and Transition course offered between the foundation and patient care phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Pass/Fail only Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 586 MEDSCI 587 Independent Study Themes in Medicine (1-7, max. 7) Suzanne M. Allen Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Themes in Medicine offered throughout the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 587 MEDSCI 588 Independent Study Human Form and Function Term 1 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Human Form & Function Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 588 MEDSCI 589 Independent Study Human Form and Function Term 2 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Human Form & Function Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 589 MEDSCI 590 Independent Study Human Form and Function Term 3 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Human Form & Function Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 590 MEDSCI 591 Independent Study Pathology Term 1 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pathology & Histology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 591 MEDSCI 592 Independent Study Pathology Term 2 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pathology & Histology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 592 MEDSCI 593 Independent Study Pathology Term 3 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pathology & Histology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 593 MEDSCI 594 Independent Study Pharmacology Term 1 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pharmacology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 594 MEDSCI 595 Independent Study Pharmacology Term 2 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pharmacology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 595 MEDSCI 596 Independent Study Pharmacology Term 3 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required Pharmacology Thread offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 596 MEDSCI 597 Indep Study USMLE Step 1 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required USMLE Step 1 licencing examination offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 597 MEDSCI 598 Indep Study USMLE Step 2 (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students required to complete additional study related to the required USMLE Step 2 licencing examination offered during the pre-clinical foundation phase of the School of Medicine curriculum. Intended for students in remedial or extended programs to master fund of knowledge. The course title includes terms to identify which quarter the course is being offered. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 598 MEDSCI 599 Indep Study or Research (1-24, max. 24) Designed for medical students who elect a special or research related to the required foundation phase pre-clinical courses. This course can also be used for a student who fails a thread remediation course. Prerequisite: Department Permission Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 599 MEDSCI 600 Transition to Residency (4) G. Pagalilauan The Transition to Residency course will: 1. Prepare graduating 4th year medical students in the knowledge and skills necessary to perform expected intern duties in the first 3 months of residency. 2. Provide a forum for the academic, research and service accomplishments of the graduating students. 3. Incorporate sessions that create community and give students a platform to celebrate their experiences in medical school. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 600 MEDSCI 602 Adolescent Health in Low-Resource Settings (1) Highlights issues for adolescents in resource limited settings with an initial focus on what makes adolescents unique. Topic-based seminars, readings, discussions, and cases will include: adolescent development; physical and psychological trauma; nutrition; illicit activities; adolescent-focused research; adolescent-friendly health services; and reproductive and sexual health. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 602 MEDSCI 603 Introductory Hands-On Cardiac Ultrasound (1) Acquire cardiac ultrasound images at three acoustic windows, identify cardiac anatomy in standard views, and recognize key pathologies: left and right ventricular dysfunction and dilatation and pericardial effusion. Following a course introduction, students will work self-paced, alone or in pairs, on a mannequin-based simulator. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 603 MEDSCI 604 Introduction to Chronic Pain (1) Medical students will be paired with a pain specialist for three morning sessions in an outpatient chronic pain clinic. Students will be exposed to musculoskeletal, neuropathic, and visceral pain conditions while learning about various management options. A 1-2 page reflection on a patient or pain topic will be required. Offered: SpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 604 MEDSCI 605 From Electrons to the Emergency Department: The Cell Biology of Poisons (1) This course will describe how various poisons (naturally occurring or following overdose) interrupt molecular pathways to produce toxicity. Concepts will be introduced in a base-based manner before describing in depth the metabolic pathway affected. Examples include electron transport chain poisons, sodium channel poisons, and free poisons (iron). View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 605 MEDSCI 606 Emergency Medicine Point-of-Care Ultrasound (1) A. ADEDIPE, B. BACKLUND, M. VRABLIK Introduction to point-of-care ultrasound. This elective will help students become comfortable with using bedside ultrasound by teaching ultrasound machine operation, image acquisition, and providing hands-on training in both simulated and patient care settings. The elective is designed to be interactive and will incorporate classroom didactic, procedure simulation and clinical application. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 606 MEDSCI 607 Science and Practice of Empathy and Compassion Cultivation in Medicine (1) This course will aim at helping students develop the ability to face suffering and pain with empathy, kindness, and compassion. Emphasis will be on cultivating a non-judgmental and curious attitude, self-compassion, appreciation of common humanity and acknowledging that suffering is universal to the human condition, and the practice of compassion. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 607 MEDSCI 608 Ethical Issues in Solid Organ Transplantation and Allocation (1) A. WIGHTMAN Explore the ethical issues that underlie some of the major controversies in transplantation through brief readings (including selections from the press, canonic texts, and academic articles) and case-based discussion. Students will be evaluated based on participation and a written response to a case. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 608 MEDSCI 609 Ethics in emergency Medicine Workshop (1) Learn how to consider and evaluate the ethical issues surrounding various real-life, frequently encountered medical situations. Discuss various approaches to ethical reasoning and decision-making, then implement in case evaluation. Students will be encouraged to both participate in and lead discussions of each case. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 609 MEDSCI 610 Food, Health, and the Environment (1) A multi-modal session comprised of interactive presentations, documentaries, guest speakers, and small group discussions covering major nutrition topics, such as: nutrition and effects on health, the American food industry and the environment, changing eating behaviors on individual, community, and national levels, as well as food insecurities and health disparities. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 610 MEDSCI 611 Intersection of Genetics with Patient Care (2) Create hypothesis-driven clinical inquiry in an interactive learning environment. Employ peer-review sessions and team-based analysis of genetics case scenarios. Apply your science and clinical knowledge towards solving your patient's specific healthcare need. A team experienced clinicians and researchers will give support and feedback. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 611 MEDSCI 612 Introduction to Humanitarian Emergencies (1) The course provides an introduction to health related issues faced by acutely displaced populations, including refugees and internally displaced persons, in developing countries, in the setting of humanitarian emergencies. Challenges in planning, implementing, and evaluating health programs for these populations will be discussed through case studies of recent humanitarian emergencies. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 612 MEDSCI 613 Mind Body Medicine: Mind Body Skills for Medical Students (2) L. ERLANGER, C. SCOTT This seminar course will provide scientific background and foundational self-care skills for stress management through mindfulness and mutual support. Students will be encouraged to develop self-care and related pt care philosophy statement. Includes highly interactive, short didactic sessions, practice with experiential activities, and sharing reflections with group members. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 613 MEDSCI 614 Theoretical and Clinical Aspects of Pain (1) The course will introduce pain and pain neurobiology with a close look into nociceptive, neuropathic and visceral pain and treatments to pain and addiction. The course will be a combination of articles, lecture, videos of real patients with chronic pain, and discussion. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 614 MEDSCI 615 Community Engagement and the School of Medicine Pathways (1) The interactive and engaging Pathways intersession will cover the following topic area: determinants of health, the built environment, health equity and advocacy, structural competency, narrative medicine and additional topics related to working effectively with underserved, vulnerable and marginalized communities. Open to all WWAMI medical students. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 615 MEDSCI 616 The Physician Online: Mindful Use of Digital Media (1) A. BROWN, A. CHIPMAN, M. JACKSON, J. JAUREGUI, J. RIDDELL This course explores the use of social media in medicine by exploring online identity, interactions, consumption and creation of content, and reflection. The goal is to equip students to use digital media mindfully while leveraging it to collaborate intelligently, teach more efficiently, and learn for a lifetime. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 616 MEDSCI 617 Prison/Jail Health Care, Part 1 (1) M. STERN, L. STRICK This 2-day course serves as an introduction to correctional healthcare. The instructors will provide a short overview of the US correctional system and why and how health care is delivered in jails and prisons. The class will tour a busy county jail on Day 1 and a state prison on Day 2. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 617 MEDSCI 618 Prison/Jail Health Care, Part 2 (1) M. STERN, L. STRICK This course will explore the unique ethical challenges of correctional medicine through case-based discussions. There will be an opportunity to better understand some of those challenges first hand through a guided visit to a prison caring for the state's most seriously mentally ill. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 618 MEDSCI 619 Refugee and Immigrant Health (1) This is a weeklong UWSOM intersession course familiarizing students with various aspects of immigrant and refugee health care. There will be an emphasis on the social context of clinical care and the importance of effective teamwork and collaboration. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 619 MEDSCI 620 Rheumatology Foundations (1) H. EMERY, K. HAYWARD, M. THAPA, T. TORGERSON This course reviews pathology, clinical presentation, initial evaluation and management of patients with musculoskeletal complaints and common rheumatologic disorders. The in-class sessions include interactive lectures, case-based small groups and a volunteer patient panel that allow students to synthesize knowledge from earlier Foundations blocks and prepare for transition into clinical clerkships. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 620 MEDSCI 621 Basic Skills in Emergency Resuscitation (1) Impart the critical skills needed to evaluate and manage common emergencies that medical students will encounter during their clinical clerkships and internship. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 621 MEDSCI 622 Topics in Global Infectious Diseases (1) This course will combine didactic sessions presented by local topic experts on global infectious diseases with interactive case-based learning. Small groups will tackle cases that explore epidemiology, diagnosis and management of significant global infections. The course will conclude with a career panel of speakers highlighting various global health career paths. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 622 MEDSCI 623 Introduction to Toxicology: The Intersection of Natural Toxins and Human Physiology (1) This is a didactic-based course illustrating the pathophysiology of natural toxins. Toxins from multiple organ systems including central nervous system, hepatic, hematologic, immunologic, and renal toxins will be covered. Specific examples include: shellfish poisonings, plant and mushroom poisonings, and envenomations from jellyfish, snakes, scorpions, and spiders. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 623 MEDSCI 624 Medical Students as Advocates: Practical Skills for Effective Advocacy (1) Students will develop tangible, hands on skills for moving beyond witnessing health disparities to upstream action that is rooted in effective and community-centered advocacy. Through a cycle of interactive learning, research, action and reflection, this course both explores and develops the role of medical students and future physicians as advocates. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 624 MEDSCI 625 Building a Framework for Effective Service-Learning, Health Equity, and Leadership (1) This course hones student leadership skills for: cultivating strong teams, assessing community strengths and needs, building community partnerships, sustaining projects, transitioning leadership, and facilitating reflective practices rooted in an analysis of systemic inequalities and cultural humility. Students will emerge with renewed confidence and refined skills for developing or strengthening projects. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 625 MEDSCI 626 Foundations of Scholarship: Discovery (1) Investigate different types of scholarship of discovery within medicine. Apply the concepts of clear goals, adequate preparation, appropriate methods, significant results, effective presentation, and reflective critique to while preparing a scholarly project. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 626 MEDSCI 627 Foundations of Scholarship: Integration (1) Investigate different types of scholarship of integration within medicine. Apply the concepts of clear goals, adequate preparation, appropriate methods, significant results, effective presentation, and reflective critique to while preparing a scholarly project. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 627 MEDSCI 628 Foundations of Scholarship: Engagement (1) Investigate different types of scholarship of integration within medicine. Apply the concepts of clear goals, adequate preparation, appropriate methods, significant results, effective presentation, and reflective critique to while preparing a scholarly project. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 628 MEDSCI 629 Foundations of Scholarship: Teaching (1) Investigate different types of scholarship of integration within medicine. Apply the concepts of clear goals, adequate preparation, appropriate methods, significant results, effective presentation, and reflective critique to while preparing a scholarly project. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 629 MEDSCI 630 Procedures and Advanced Skills for Clinical Practice (1) Explore common diagnostic and therapeutic clinical procedures through a hands-on approach. Experience more advanced skills needed for clinical practice in a mentored environment. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 630 MEDSCI 631 Skills and Strategies for Personal and Professional Development (1) Teach skills and strategies required to sustain lifelong personal and professional growth. Equip students with resources and strategies that will improve their studying and learning skills. Topics will include time management, stress management, adult learning and organizational skills. Guest presenters will include professionals in the fields of health and education. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 631 MEDSCI 632 Clinical Global Health and Social Medicine (1) P. DRAIN Applying clinical global health and social medicine principles are critical to providing excellent medical care. In this intersession, students will learn and discuss elements of clinical global health and social medicine through interactive case-based lectures, group discussions, and independent reading. Students will be graded (pass/fail) on participation and an essay. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 632 MEDSCI 699 Clinical Independent Study or Research (1-24, max. 24) Michael J. Ryan Independent study course designed for medical students electing to complete a project or research related to clinical medicine or other clinical courses during the medical school Patient Care or Explore and Focus Phases. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDSCI 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022