Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Coronavirus COVID-19 right arrow down arrow COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life right arrow down arrow Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine right arrow down arrow Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures right arrow down arrow Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Home » Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) » Campus Safety Measures » Facial Coverings Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 Data Dashboard Academics Academic Calendar Off Campus Learning Campus Life Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Campus Recreation & Athletics Transportation Testing & Quarantine Quarantine & Isolation COVID Check App Self-Administered Wellness Check Self Reporting Campus Safety Measures Visitors Events Travel & Study Abroad Research Facial Masks Social Distancing Vaccines Facial Masks In response to updated CDC guidance, facial masking requirements have been lifted for UC faculty, staff, students, and visitors. Facial masks are no longer required to be worn inside campus buildings. Gudiance is subject to change. Exceptions: Masks will continue to be required on UC public transportation, in clinical settings and for at least ten days after an exposure to COVID-19 or a COVID-19 diagnosis, regardless of vaccination status.  Masking is a critical public health tool for preventing spread of COVID-19. Members of the UC Community who prefer to continue to wear a mask for personal safety should continue to do so. According to the CDC, loosely woven cloth products provide the least protection, layered finely woven products offer more protection, well-fitting disposable surgical masks and KN95s offer even more protection, and well-fitting NIOSH-approved respirators (including N95s) offer the highest level of protection. Why Choose a N95 or KN95 Mask? According to the CDC well-fitting NIOSH approved facial coverings offer the most protection against the virus that causes COVID-19 Loosely woven cloth products provide the least protection Layered finely woven products offer more protection than loosely woven cloth products Properly fitted respirators provide the highest level of protection. N95 and KN95 masks are more fitted than surgical masks and cloth masks List of masks approved by NIOSH Signs that may indicated your mask may not be certified by NIOSH Additional tips to consider when purchasing a mask. Does Your Mask Pass the Fit Test? When choosing a mask pay attention to how well it fits your face. It is important to check that it fits snugly over your nose, mouth, and chin to prevent air with droplets from leaking in and out around the edges of the mask. Gaps can be caused by choosing the wrong size or type of mask and when a mask is worn with facial hair. Points to consider: Check for gaps by cupping your hands around the outside edges of the mask. Make sure no air is flowing from the area near your eyes or from the sides of the mask. If the mask has a good fit, you will feel warm air come through the front of the mask and may be able to see the mask material move in and out with each breath. Use the nose wire and mold the mask to fit your face to create a snug fit Learn more from the CDC. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top