retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Texas Union Hours WCP (formerly SAC) Hours Events Calendar Employment Search Search Texas Union Texas Union 360° Virtual Tour William C. Powers, Jr. Student Activity Center WCP Student Activity Center 360° Virtual Tour History & Sustainability Through Our Eyes Hogg Auditorium Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Texas Union Underground Tower Tours Events + Entertainment About Us Committees Services Your Event Advertising - DigiKnow Pricing & Policies Locations & Reservations Food & Catering About Us Board of Directors Employment Support Our Students University Unions 360° Virtual Tours Food & Fun Food & Fun Food Truck Schedule Special Event Requests Vendor Instructions Texas Union Underground Location Rates Reservations Tower Tours UT Tower 360° Virtual Tour Stop by our food truck locations on the Speedway Pedestrian Walkway and 21st Street Check the Food Truck schedule! The Texas Union Texas Union Hours Confirm your option is open! Union Coffee House proudly serves Starbucks coffee and beverages, bakery items and grab and go options. Stock up with your horns up! Hook ‘em Hut has all the everyday essentials you need. Panda Express prepares and serves American Chinese food fresh from the wok! Healthy options for your on-the-go lifestyle. Now open! Chick-fil-A is the Home of the Original Chicken Sandwich! Tower Burgers and Fries features a menu that includes freshly prepared burgers, fries, shakes, and chicken tenders. WCP Student Activity Center WCP Hours Confirm your option is open! Longhorn Coffee Co. proudly serves Starbucks coffee and beverages, bakery items and grab and go options. Stock up with your Horns Up! Hook 'em Hut has all the everyday essentials you need. One Two Three Sushi offers fresh high-quality ingredients, sushi, and Japanese meals. Guests have the freedom to choose their ingredients and customize their meals according to their own tastes and dietary preferences. Pop Up Kitchen: Sub Sandwiches offers a variety of customizable sub sandwiches. Check out the special limited time offers that change each month! The Food Trailer offers Philly Cheesesteaks at a convenient outdoor location at the intersection of Speedway and the East Mall, near WCP. Several locations now open at WCP Student Activity Center and the Texas Union! Additional locations will be opening soon! It's all fun & games! Bowling, Billiards, Air Hockey & Foosball Are you open to the public? YES! We cater to the students of the University of Texas at Austin, but are completely open to the entire public. No reservations are required. Vist the Texas Union Underground Monopoly, Risk, and Scrabble, Oh My! The WCP is pleased to offer a variety of board games for check-out from our Hospitality Desk on the first floor. Games are available on a first-come first-served basis, and are available during building hours, for a two-hour period. Enjoy Risk, Monopoly, Chess, Scrabble, Dominoes, and more! Your Campus Decompression Zone Before the music starts in the evening, the Cactus is a great place to meet friends for conversation and relaxation. Visit the Cactus Café Tweets from @utunions UT University Unions UTUnions Catch Anna Larson, the first of our Summer Series, in the Cactus Cafe! Friday, June 3 at 7:30PM. More info at… https://t.co/UDgO5iYzR4 2 days 18 hours ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Congratulations to the graduating class of 2022! #UTGrad22 🤘🎓🎉 https://t.co/fjK9poGV0e 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Austin UTAustin Lightning and strong winds are rapidly approaching the Austin area from the West. Please use caution as you depart Campus. 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted Emmanuel Acho EmmanuelAcho The calm before the storm. It’s the honor of my life to honor @UTAustin’s graduating class as tonight’s commencemen… https://t.co/Li7idDo590 1 week 2 days ago ⇄ UT University Unions Retweeted UT Housing UTHousing And that’s a wrap 🤘 Thanks for letting us join y’all on your Forty Acres journeys. Keep those horns up and enjoy yo… https://t.co/QeWJUx946M 1 week 5 days ago View all UT Unions tweets The mission of the University Unions is to enhance the student experience and to enrich campus life by providing cultural, educational, social, and recreational programs as well as related goods and services to the campus community. FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram SnapchatSee us on Snapchat TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Events Calendar Tower Tours Employment Cactus Café UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022