Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Business and Finance Departments Vision, Mission, & Values Annual Report Communications Org Charts Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home Division of Business and Finance B&F Areas of Interest for Faculty and Staff B&F Areas of Interest for Faculty and Staff B&F Departments Looking for a B&F department? All top-level departments are listed in the left menu. In addition, all top-level and internal departments are listed in the department directory. B&F Forms As part of our ongoing efforts to better serve our users, the Division of Business & Finance has incorporated all of its online forms into one convenient Web site. Your University ID - Campus Card The University of Memphis issues each student, faculty and staff member an identification card that bears their name and image. This permanent identification card is used as the primary campus-wide method of determining privileges and accesses. Employee Benefits Find out more about the comprehensive benefits program offered to University employees at the Human Resources Web site. Employee Discounts (Tiger Perks) The University of Memphis offers a number of discounts to faculty and staff. Focus on Finance & HR The Focus on Finance & HR users group was created as a communication and networking resource for those within the University community who provide financial and/or HR services throughout their respective areas. Focus on Finance & HR provides opportunities for training, information sharing, and questions. Holiday Schedule Throughout the year numerous dates are observed as University holidays for faculty and staff. Shared Services Center The Shared Services Center (SSC) is an office providing a range of finance, human resources, and payroll services to campus administrative divisions. Tigerbuy Tigerbuy is the University's online bidding and eprocurement system. Learn more about gaining access to Tigerbuy on the Tigerbuy Program Guide. You may also wish to review the Requirements for Vendor Registration in Tigerbuy (for Faculty/Staff) [PDF]. University of Memphis Faculty & Staff Salary Database Current, rounded salaries of regular employees of the University of Memphis. WorkforUM WorkforUM is the University's online position description and applicant tracking system. Search for employment opportunities in WorkforUM! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/11/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.