You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff DePaul University DePaul Shortcuts Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Deadlines Immunization About Academics Admission & Aid Student Life Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply DePaul Shortcuts Academic Resources Academic Calendar Academic Success BlueStar Campus Connect DePaul Central Desire2Learn (D2L) Email (Students/Faculty/Staff) University Catalog Library Campus Resources Campus Security Bookstore Campus Maps Events University Resources Directory Athletics Employment Sites A-Z Information For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus About Rankings Campuses Chicago Events Mission President Administration Distinctions History & Timeline Accreditation & Licensure Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Degrees Continuing Education Career Success Academic Catalog Colleges & Schools Research Corporate Education Academic Affairs Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Immunization Student Life Life at DePaul Student Organizations Housing Virtual Campus Tour DeBlogs Career Center Athletics Art Museum Student Affairs Bookstore Alumni & Friends Request Info Apply Admission & Aid Types of Admission Visit DePaul Tuition Room & Board Scholarships Financial Aid Veteran Student Test Credit & Placement Check Your Application Status Admitted Students Deadlines Immunization Apply Online Request Info Visit Campus DePaul University > Admission & Aid > Scholarships Scholarships Main Content $249,000,000: Our investment in your success Access and attainability are in our DNA. With our new State Scholar Plus scholarship, we are as affordable as the premier public university in Illinois. Better yet, we base our scholarship awards on a history of achievement, not on a single test or moment. Here, we believe that hard work pays off. Find your student type to learn more about your options. Incoming Freshman Scholarships State Scholar Plus Scholarship A private education in a bold environment shouldn’t be as expensive as it sounds. That’s why DePaul has introduced the State Scholar Plus scholarship for admitted fall freshmen. With merit award packages up to $100,000 (over four years) we are as affordable as the leading public institution in Illinois. Here’s how to qualify: Apply by November 15th — our Early Action Program deadline Earn a 3.75 GPA or higher at the point of admission (on a 4.0 scale) Rank in the top 10% of your graduating class If class ranking information is not included on your official high school transcript, a guidance counselor/school counselor can submit a supporting letter indicating ranking International Student: If class ranking is not available, then SAT score of 1300 or ACT score of 28 (or higher) is required RaiseMe Micro-scholarships Earn up to $40,000 toward a DePaul education DePaul has proudly partnered with RaiseMe to offer micro-scholarships that recognize your everyday achievements and allow you to start earning money for college beginning in 9th grade. Freshmen can earn up to $10,000/year*, which will be part of your DePaul University financial aid package. Let’s get you started Create your account and follow DePaul Keep your RaiseMe portfolio up to date and let us know know all of your achievements such as grades, extracurricular activities and leadership positions Cash in when you decide to become a Blue Demon and join our freshman class Be sure to update your profile before the November 15 deadline. *Students applying to DePaul University’s School of Music or Theatre School are not eligible to earn RaiseMe micro-scholarships. However, students admitted into these colleges are eligible for other talent-based scholarships. Visit music.depaul.edu or theatre.depaul.edu for more information on how to apply to these programs. Academic Scholarships and DePaul Grants DePaul awards more than $44 million in scholarships to incoming freshman students each year, and more than $11 million in need-based gift aid on an annual basis. By submitting an updated FAFSA to DePaul, you will be considered for additional grant funds. In recent years, new freshman students have received financial aid award packages of up to $38,400 annually. If you’re applying to enroll in the Fall Quarter, you will automatically be considered for freshman academic scholarships of up to $24,000 annually when you complete your application. DePaul Freshman Scholarships Award Amount: $15,000 to $24,000 Applying. You’re automatically considered for one of our four academic scholarships (Presidential Scholarship, Deans’ Scholarship, DePaul Scholars’ Award, St. Vincent DePaul Scholarship) when you apply to DePaul. You do not need to submit a separate application. However, priority consideration is given to students who submit their admission applications by November 15—so be sure to apply by this date. If you earn an academic scholarship, we’ll notify you in your acceptance packet. (Note: Students admitted to the School of Music or The Theatre School are not eligible for the academic scholarships listed below. Please see “Talent Scholarships” for opportunities within the School of Music and The Theatre School.) Renewing. Academic scholarships may be renewed for up to four consecutive years (12 quarters) of undergraduate study if you maintain good academic standing. You must be enrolled full time each quarter and complete a minimum of 36 quarter hours for the Fall, Winter and Spring quarters. Catholic Heritage Scholarship (The Illinois Catholic High School Scholarship) Award Amount: $20,000 Any graduate of a Catholic high school in Illinois with a 3.7 GPA or higher who is admitted as a full-time freshman will be awarded a $20,000 scholarship, beginning in fall of 2019. This scholarship is renewable for four years based on satisfactory academic performance and progress, bringing the total award to $80,000. Students who demonstrate exceptional academic achievement may receive a larger award. This scholarship may not be combined with other DePaul scholarships except for the Provost’s Achievement Award. Eligible students also may qualify for need-based financial aid. Chicago Promise Scholarship (The Chicago Public School Scholarship) Award Amount: $20,000 Any graduate of a Chicago Public high school with a 3.7 weighted GPA or higher who is admitted as a full-time freshman will be awarded a $20,000 scholarship, beginning in fall of 2019. This scholarship is renewable for four years based on satisfactory academic performance and progress, bringing the total award to $80,000. Students who demonstrate exceptional academic achievement may receive a larger award. This scholarship may not be combined with other DePaul scholarships except for the Provost’s Achievement Award. Eligible students also may qualify for need-based financial aid. Provost’s Achievement Award Award Amount: $3,000 Students who have been selected as a National Merit Scholarship Program Semifinalist are eligible for the Provost’s Achievement Award. This award is renewable for four years and can be combined with an academic scholarship. Donor-Funded Scholarships If you’re admitted as part of the Early Action Program, you may be eligible for one of the scholarships that are listed below. These scholarships offer additional financial assistance to your college education and can stack with your academic merit-based scholarships and grants. Each scholarship has specific criteria, so please read each award’s description carefully. Award amounts range from $5,000 to full tuition. These scholarships may be renewed for up to four consecutive years (12 quarters) of undergraduate study if you meet the requirements of each scholarship. Arthur J. Schmitt Leaders Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Application required Award amount: $12,000 The Arthur J. Schmitt Scholarship is awarded to students selected from the incoming class who are eligible to participate for up to four consecutive academic years. Schmitt Scholars are identified by their positional leadership and academic excellence in their High School careers. This scholarship is designed to further students’ formation as leaders who work for positive social change in the spirit of St. Vincent de Paul and Arthur J. Schmitt. This vision is accomplished through leadership education, leadership initiatives, and reflection. Catholic Vincentian Values Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Application required Award amount: $5,000 This scholarship is awarded to students graduating from DePaul College Prep High School. The scholarship was created to provide recognition and financial assistance for DePaul College Prep High School students to attend DePaul University. Students must write a 700-to-1,000-word essay on the importance of a Catholic and Vincentian education in their life and future career ambitions. ComEd Scholars Program Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Application required Award amount: $12,000 The ComEd Scholars Program Scholarship is awarded to students graduating from DePaul College Prep High School with an interest and aptitude for STEM. To be considered, students must be participants in the ComEd Scholars program at DePaul College Prep High School. Gerald and Jennifer Beeson Scholarship Semi-finalists will be selected by February 1 Award Amount: $10,000 The Beeson Scholarship is awarded to incoming traditional freshman students. The scholarship was created to support highly promising seniors from Chicago Catholic High Schools in meeting their academic and personal goals. To be considered, you must be from a Chicago-area Catholic High School with a cumulative high school GPA of 2.7 or higher and have leadership skills as well as a commitment to social justice. Semi-finalists will be selected upon admission and contacted for a scholarship interview. Recipients are required to commit to social activism, serve as community leaders, fulfill community service projects and participate in events determined by supervisors in the Office of Multicultural Student Success, including sessions with staff for advising, mentoring and assessment. Greer Foundation Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Application required Award amount: $5,000 The Greer Foundation Scholarship provides recognition and financial assistance to academically high-achieving undergraduate students pursing STEM-related majors. Preference will go to underrepresented students. James T. and Michelle A. Ryan Family Scholarship Semi-finalists will be selected by February 1 Award amount: Varies, up to full tuition This scholarship was established to provide recognition and financial assistance to high-potential incoming DePaul University students with financial need. Students who graduated from the Chicago Jesuit Academy middle school will be given priority consideration. This scholarship will provide support on top of federal, state, and institutional aid to cover recipients’ tuition, room and board, and program support. Semi-finalists will be selected upon admission and contacted for a scholarship interview. Recipients must reside on campus, maintain good academic standing and demonstrate appropriate progress toward degree completion in order to maintain eligibility for award renewal. Mazza Foundation Scholarship Semi-finalists will be selected by February 1 Award amount: $15,000 The Mazza Foundation Scholarship supports highly promising seniors from Chicago Big Shoulders High Schools or Mazza Scholars in meeting their academic and personal goals. To be considered, you must graduate from a Big Shoulders High School or be a current Mazza Scholar with a cumulative high school GPA of 2.7 or higher. In addition, need must be demonstrated as determined by the FAFSA. Applicants must have leadership skills as well as a commitment to social justice. Recipients are required to participate in events determined by supervisors in the Office of Multicultural Student Success, including participation as a S.T.A.R.S. (Students Together Are Reaching Success) peer mentee. Semi-finalists will be selected upon admission and contacted for a scholarship interview. Monsignor Egan Hope Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Award amount: $13,500 The Egan Hope Scholarship Program was created to honor Monsignor John Egan’s lifetime work of social activism and community service and is designed to prepare inner-city students from Chicago to continue that work. To be considered, you must prove residency within the city of Chicago and graduate from a city of Chicago high school. You must have an exceptional record of social activism, leadership and community service. Recipients are required to commit to social activism, serve as community leaders, fulfill community service projects and participate in events determined by supervisors in the Office of Multicultural Student Success, including sessions with staff for advising, mentoring and assessment. Rita and John Canning Scholarship Semi-finalists will be selected by February 1 Award amount: $10,000 The Rita and John Canning Scholarship supports highly promising seniors from Chicago Big Shoulders High Schools or Big Shoulders Fund Scholars in meeting their academic and personal goals. To be considered, you must be from a Big Shoulders High School or a current Big Shoulders Fund Scholar with a cumulative high school GPA of 2.7 or higher. In addition, need must be demonstrated as determined by the FAFSA. Applicants must have leadership skills as well as a commitment to social justice. Semi-finalists will be selected upon admission and contacted for a scholarship interview. Recipients are required to participate in events determined by supervisors in the Office of Multicultural Student Success, including participating as a S.T.A.R.S. (Students Together Are Reaching Success) peer mentee. The Engage and Persist in STEM (EPISTEM) Scholarship Application deadline: February 1 Application required Award amount: $10,000 The Engage and Persist in STEM (EPISTEM) Scholarship supports high-achieving first year students with specific majors in the College of Science and Health. To be considered, you must pursue an eligible major in the College of Science and Health: Actuarial Science, Astrophysics, Biochemistry, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Data Science, Environmental Science, Environmental Studies, Mathematics, Neuroscience and Physics. Application Instructions Go to depaul.academicworks.com Login using your Campus Connect user ID and password. (You can find this information in Blue Demon Domain.) The first page will be the “General Application.” Please read all of the instructions and fill out the application. You do not need to upload a transcript to complete the application. Note: After completing the General Application, you will be able to find or search for a specific scholarship. You may apply for only one of these scholarships. Talent Scholarships Talent scholarships are based on artistic, musical and theatrical ability/potential. Applying. If you’re a freshman admitted for the Fall Quarter and intend to enroll in one of the academic programs detailed below, you may be considered for a talent scholarship. An audition, interview or portfolio is required. Renewing. Talent scholarships may be renewed for up to four consecutive years (12 quarters) of undergraduate study if you meet the requirements listed under each scholarship. You must be enrolled full time each quarter in the corresponding major, maintain good academic standing and complete a minimum of 36 quarter hours for the Fall, Winter and Spring quarters. Art Scholarship* Award Amount: $10,000 To be considered, you must be admitted to DePaul as a first year student and as a declared Art, Media and Design major by February 1. To apply, go to depaul.academicworks.com and login using your Campus Connect user ID and password. You will first need to fill out the "General Application" and then should upload a portfolio containing 10 digital files as follows: nine digital images (one for each of your artworks) and one digital file with your name and resume. All submissions are due by February 1. Each digital image should be saved as a JPEG file (100 dpi and no larger than 7 x 5 inches) and include your name, the title of the work, medium, size (HxWxD) and year completed. For your resume, please include your name and contact information, schools attended, art exhibitions you’ve participated in, awards you’ve received and any other art-related activities. If you submit a video file, use QuickTime and title the file using the same guidelines outlined above. Submissions uploaded as a PowerPoint will not be accepted. *Please note: the Art Scholarship cannot be combined with a service or leadership scholarship. School of Music Award Award Amount: Varies If you apply to the School of Music by December 1, you’ll automatically be considered once you’ve performed your entrance audition. The School of Music Award amounts will vary and will be determined by the musical and academic achievements of each applicant paired with the School of Music’s ensemble and departmental needs. Award recipients must be music majors and audition for and perform (as assigned) in School of Music performance ensembles as determined by the ensemble conducting faculty. (Note: Ensemble participation is separate from the curriculum requirements.) Visit the School of Music website to schedule an audition and view audition requirements. Theatre School Scholarship Award Amount: Varies If you apply to The Theatre School, you’ll automatically be considered once you’ve completed all application requirements, including an audition or interview depending on your intended major. The Theatre School Scholarship award amounts will vary and will be determined on the basis of both academic qualifications and artistic talent as demonstrated in the entrance audition or interview. Auditions and interviews are held November through February. Visit the Theatre School website to schedule an audition or interview. External Scholarships External scholarships are offered by organizations and foundations outside DePaul. Some of the best resources for scholarships are organizations with which you or your family is associated (for example, parent's employer, ethnic heritage groups, Kiwanis club, nonprofit volunteer organizations, community organizations, high schools, etc.). You can research these opportunities on scholarship search websites. Keep in mind that you should never pay a fee for scholarship search assistance. In addition, DePaul Scholarship Connect lists external scholarships that have been sent to our Office of Financial Aid. New opportunities are added frequently, so please check the site regularly. Transfer Student Scholarships DePaul Grants and Academic Scholarships DePaul awards more than $5 million in scholarships to enrolled transfer students each year, and more than $37 million in need-based gift aid on an annual basis. By submitting an updated FAFSA to DePaul, you will be considered for additional grant funds. In recent years, new transfer students have received financial aid award packages of up to $30,000 annually. If you're applying to enroll in the Fall, Winter or Spring quarters, you will automatically be considered for academic scholarships of up to $16,000 annually when you complete your application. You may be awarded either a DePaul Transfer Scholarship or a DePaul Admission Partnership Program (DAPP) Scholarship based on your academic record at the time of admission. Recipients of the DePaul Transfer scholarships or DAPP scholarships who are also members of the Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society may also receive a Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship in addition to their DePaul Transfer Scholarships or DAPP scholarships. DePaul Transfer Scholarship You are automatically considered for the DePaul Transfer Scholarship when you apply to DePaul*. Annual awards range from $3,000-$13,000 based on your academic achievements. This award may be combined with the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship as well as the Chicago STAR Scholarship, depending on eligibility. *Students admitted to the School of Music, The Theatre School or The School of Continuing and Professional Studies are not eligible for the DePaul Transfer Scholarship. Please see Talent Scholarships for opportunities within the School of Music and The Theatre School DePaul Admission Partnership Program (DAPP) Scholarship Students who are officially participating in the DePaul Admission Partnership Program qualify for a scholarship based on their successful completion of the program while demonstrating strong academic qualifications. Annual awards for admitted DAPP participants range up to $13,000 annually. This award may be combined with the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship as well as the Chicago STAR Scholarship, depending on eligibility. Please visit the DePaul Admission Partnership Program page for additional program details. Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship The Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Scholarship is awarded to members of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society who have a 3.0 cumulative college grade point average and who have completed at least 15 semester (22 quarter) hours at the time of admission to DePaul. The annual award for PTK scholars is $1,000. This award may be combined with the DePaul Transfer Scholarship or the DAPP Scholarship, as well as with the Chicago STAR Scholarship, depending on eligibility. Note: membership in the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society is required. Chicago STAR Scholarship The Chicago STAR Scholarship is awarded to students who graduated from a CPS high school and enrolled into the City Colleges of Chicago’s STAR Scholar program. STARS Scholars who have completed at least 15 semester (22 quarter) hours at the time of admission to DePaul will automatically receive a $2,000 annual Chicago STAR Scholarship. This award may be combined with the DePaul Transfer Scholarship or the DAPP Scholarship, as well as with the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship, depending on eligibility. For more information on the Chicago STAR Scholars program, visit pages.ccc.edu/apply. External Scholarships External scholarships are offered by organizations and foundations outside DePaul. Some of the best resources for scholarships are organizations with which you or your family is associated (for example, parent's employer, ethnic heritage groups, Kiwanis club, nonprofit volunteer organizations, community organizations, high schools, etc.). You can research these opportunities on scholarship search websites. Keep in mind that you should never pay a fee for scholarship search assistance. In addition, DePaul Scholarship Connect lists external scholarships that have been sent to our Office of Financial Aid. New opportunities are added frequently, so please check the site regularly. Talent Scholarships Talent scholarships are based on artistic, musical and theatrical ability/potential. Applying. If you're a transfer student admitted for the Fall Quarter and intend to enroll in one of the academic programs detailed below, you may be considered for a talent scholarship. An audition, interview or portfolio is required. Renewing. Talent scholarships may be renewed for up to four consecutive years (12 quarters) of undergraduate study if you meet the requirements listed under each scholarship. You must be enrolled full time each quarter in the corresponding major, maintain good academic standing and complete a minimum of 36 quarter hours for the Fall, Winter and Spring quarters. School of Music Award Award Amount: Varies If you apply to the School of Music by December 1, you’ll automatically be considered once you’ve performed your entrance audition. The School of Music Award amounts will vary and will be determined by the musical and academic achievements of each applicant paired with the School of Music’s ensemble and departmental needs. Award recipients must be music majors and audition for and perform (as assigned) in School of Music performance ensembles as determined by the ensemble conducting faculty. (Note: Ensemble participation is separate from the curriculum requirements.) Visit the School of Music website to schedule an audition and view audition requirements. Theatre School Scholarship Award Amount: Varies If you apply to The Theatre School, you’ll automatically be considered once you’ve completed all application requirements, including an audition or interview depending on your intended major. The Theatre School Scholarship award amounts will vary and will be determined on the basis of both academic qualifications and artistic talent as demonstrated in the entrance audition or interview. Auditions and interviews are held November through February. Visit the Theatre School website to schedule an audition or interview. Current/Continuing Student Scholarships DePaul Scholarships If you are a continuing student at DePaul, there are both institutional and donor-funded scholarships available from various academic and student service departments. You must complete an online scholarship application in order to be considered for most scholarship opportunities. Please visit DePaul Scholarship Connect, log in with your Campus Connect credentials and fill out the general application. Your college office or academic department may contact you throughout the year about program-specific scholarship opportunities available on the DePaul Online Scholarship Application. The general application should be completed each year after July 15. We highly recommended that you complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) every year, as many scholarships have financial need-based qualifications. The FAFSA is used to determine financial need. You may contact your academic department for specific scholarship questions, application start dates and deadlines. Need-Based Scholarships Need-based scholarships are awarded based on the need determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). You may complete the FAFSA application online. Please note that completing the FAFSA is not a requirement for all internal or external scholarships, but it can be an instrumental tool in the selection process. External Scholarships External scholarships are offered by organizations and foundations outside DePaul. Some of the best resources for scholarships are organizations with which you or your family is associated (for example, parent's employer, ethnic heritage groups, Kiwanis club, nonprofit volunteer organizations, community organizations, high schools, etc.). You can research these opportunities on scholarship search websites. Keep in mind that you should never pay a fee for scholarship search assistance. In addition, DePaul Scholarship Connect lists external scholarships that have been sent to our Office of Financial Aid. New opportunities are added frequently, so please check the site regularly. Adult Student Scholarships Academic Scholarships If you are an adult student who has applied to or enrolled in one of our traditional (non-School of Continuing and Professional Studies) academic programs, please see the Transfer Student section of this page for scholarship opportunities applicable for you. Decision Analytics and Healthcare Administration Majors – Bachelor of Arts School of Continuing and Professional Studies students pursuing a bachelor of arts degree in Decision Analytics or a bachelor of arts degree in Healthcare Administration are eligible for SCPS and merit-based scholarships. Students may receive up to $3,000 annually based exclusively on their cumulative college grade point average from their most recently attended institution. If you are applying to enroll in the Fall, Winter or Spring quarters to the School of Continuing and Professional Studies, you are automatically considered for academic and merit-based scholarships when you submit your application. Students admitted in the Summer Quarter are not eligible for these awards. For more information, please contact adultenrollment@depaul.edu or call (312) 362-8300. External Scholarships External scholarships are offered by organizations and foundations outside DePaul. Some of the best resources for scholarships are organizations with which you or your family is associated (for example, parent's employer, ethnic heritage groups, Kiwanis club, nonprofit volunteer organizations, community organizations, high schools, etc.). You can research these opportunities on scholarship search websites. Keep in mind that you should never pay a fee for scholarship search assistance. In addition, DePaul Scholarship Connect lists external scholarships that have been sent to our Office of Financial Aid. New opportunities are added frequently, so please check the site regularly. Graduate Student Scholarships DePaul Scholarships Once you've been admitted or have enrolled in your graduate program, you will be considered for internal scholarships from DePaul. For more information, contact the program to which you have been admitted. External Scholarships External scholarships are offered by organizations and foundations outside DePaul. Some of the best resources for scholarships are organizations with which you or your family is associated (for example, parent's employer, ethnic heritage groups, Kiwanis club, nonprofit volunteer organizations, community organizations, high schools, etc.). You can research these opportunities on scholarship search websites. Keep in mind that you should never pay a fee for scholarship search assistance. In addition, DePaul Scholarship Connect lists external scholarships that have been sent to our Office of Financial Aid. New opportunities are added frequently, so please check the site regularly. Graduate Catholic Scholarships Students with a conferred undergraduate degree from of any U.S. Catholic college or university may be eligible to receive a 10% discount off tuition for graduate and professional programs. This award cannot be used in conjunction with any other institutional aid or discount and you will be awarded the most advantageous scholarship. Law Student Scholarships DePaul Scholarships Once you've been admitted to the College of Law, you're automatically considered for DePaul-administered scholarships based upon your achievements, personal qualities and potential to contribute to the DePaul law community. Law scholarships range from a few thousand dollars to $30,000 per year. We do not award any full-tuition scholarships. To help with the cost of your education, we strongly encourage you to submit your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) as soon as possible. We also recommend searching and applying for external scholarships. For more information about federal student loans, contact DePaul Central. Alumni Scholarships Double Demon Scholarship DePaul is committed to your continued professional and personal growth. Now, your status as an alumnus or alumna makes pursuing your educational goals more accessible and affordable. This scholarship is available to DePaul alumni doing graduate work at DePaul. It covers 25 percent of the tuition for a master’s degree, non-degree work or select certificate programs.* Applying. Alumni from any of DePaul’s colleges who are admitted into a graduate program — including degree, non-degree or select certificate programs* — automatically qualify for the Double Demon Scholarship. Both full-time and part-time students are eligible. No scholarship application is required. Contact the admission office for your college of interest to learn more. (Note: This scholarship cannot be used in conjunction with other DePaul scholarships, waivers or awards. University employees are eligible for other tuition benefits and are not eligible. And it does not cover coursework from the Center for Professional Education (CPE), Institute for Professional Development (IPD), coursework in a doctoral program or a Master of Fine Arts (MFA), Music, Theatre, Law and a few other select programs.) *Scholarship does not apply to all certificate programs. Please contact your college admission offices for more information. DePaul University Apply Request Info Visit Campus Directory 1 E. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 362-8000 Library Athletics Careers Events facebooktwitterinstagram 2001-2018 DePaul University | Disclaimer | Contact Us | Emergency Plan | Consumer Information | IBHE Complaints | Privacy StatementEditor Login Scholarships