Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Visit Harvard Tours Experience the ideas, artifacts, people, and places that have shaped our history for nearly 400 years. Visit Harvard Maps and Directions Tours Visit Harvard Maps and Directions Tours More In-person and virtual tours are offered daily. Weekly tour registration is available every Friday. At this time, only official Harvard tours are permitted in Harvard Yard. For information about Harvard College Admissions tours for prospective students, visit their website. Please note: The Visitor Center will be closed on Monday, May 30 and Tuesday, May 31. A self-guided historical tour is now offered on the Visit Harvard mobile app, available to download on iOS and Android devices. Tours All tours are 45 to 60 minutes long. Registration is required in advance for both in-person and virtual tours. Weekly tour registration is available every Friday. You can download the Visit Harvard mobile app on iOS and Android devices. On campus In-person Historical Tour of Harvard The free, student-led public walking tour through Harvard Yard provides a history of the University, general information, and a unique view on the students’ individual experience. Register for the in-person tour On campus and Online Private tours Private tours of Harvard are available on campus and virtually. Please make your reservation at least two weeks in advance. In-person private tours are for groups of 15-60 people. There are no group size limits for virtual private tours. Request a tour On campus Visit Harvard mobile app You can download the Visit Harvard mobile app on iOS and Android devices. Online Virtual Historical Tour of Harvard This free virtual student-led tour provides a history of the University, general information, and insight into the student experience. Register for the virtual tour Online Virtual Harvard Women’s History Tour This free virtual student-led tour illustrates women’s challenges and triumphs over the past three centuries at Harvard. Register for the virtual tour Frequently asked questions General Tour Information The Harvard University Visitor Center offers several different types of tours. For our in person tour offerings on campus, we provide the Historical Tour of Harvard. Our virtual tour offerings include the virtual Historical Tour of Harvard and the Harvard Women’s History Tour. All tours are provided to the public for free and to private groups for a fee. Our tours typically run 45-60 minutes. To view the schedule and register for our free public tours (virtual and in person), please visit our Eventbrite page. To request a virtual or in person private tour, visit this link. We also offer a free self-guided historical tour through the Visit Harvard mobile app, which you can download on iOS and Android devices. You can take this self-guided tour on campus or from the comfort of your own home. Information About Free In Person Tours The in person Historical Tour of Harvard explores Harvard Yard. Tours depart from the Visitor Center which is located at the front desk in the Smith Campus Center. Our address is 1350 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138. Registration for our in person tours must be made in advance. Registration is made available starting the Friday before your tour week. Parties of up to 14 persons can register for a free in person tour. Parties of 15-60 are encouraged to submit a request for a private tour. Registered tour goers should arrive at the Visitor Center at least 15 minutes before your tour to check-in. Tours depart from the Smith Campus Center and end in Harvard Yard. Information About the Visit Harvard Mobile App Visit Harvard is a free mobile app by the Harvard Visitor Center that features a collection of self-guided tours centered around the Harvard University experience. The Visit Harvard mobile app can be downloaded by anyone with a smartphone, tablet, or desktop, to be enjoyed from wherever you might be visiting, whether it’s in-person at Harvard or from the comfort of your own home. What tours are being offered in the mobile app? Currently on the app, visitors can take a mobile version of our popular in-person and virtual tour, the Historical Tour of Harvard. How long is the mobile tour? This self-guided tour takes place across 14 mapped stops through Harvard’s campus. At a standard walking pace, it will take between 45-60 minutes to complete the 1 mile long tour. Can I take the mobile tour in-person or virtually? The mobile tour is designed to be accessed in-person on Harvard University’s campus, starting at the Harvard Visitor Center, located at the Smith Campus Center in Harvard Square (1350 Massachusetts Ave, Cambridge, MA). It can also be viewed from the comfort of your own home. Simply download Visit Harvard in the app store, select the Historical Tour of Harvard, and begin your journey! Where can I download the Visit Harvard mobile app? You can download the Visit Harvard mobile app on the Apple App Store and Google Play. There is also a desktop version of the app you can access here. Information About Free Virtual Tours General Overview: The Historical Tour of Harvard and the Harvard Women’s History Tour are also available in a virtual format. Register in advance for your free virtual tour by visiting our Eventbrite page. Registration is made available starting the Friday before your tour week. After registering, you will be sent a secure link to access the tour via Zoom, a video conferencing platform. If you are unfamiliar with Zoom, please access Zoom’s website to learn more. Please note: The virtual Historical Tour of Harvard is offered daily. The virtual Harvard Women’s History tour is offered bi-weekly. About the Virtual Historical Tour of Harvard: This free virtual student-led tour provides a history of the University, general information, and a unique view on the student’s individual experience. It also showcases never-before-seen images of Harvard and its legacy in modern and historical times. About the Virtual Harvard Women’s History Tour: This free virtual student-led tour illustrates women’s challenges and triumphs over the past three centuries at Harvard, as well as the history of Radcliffe. You’ll encounter stories and sights of the many women and their accomplishments that contributed greatly to Harvard’s esteemed legacy. Information About Private Tours What types of private tours are offered? The Visitor Center currently offers both in person and virtual private tours. There are differences between the in person and virtual tour offerings, so please read below for more information. About In Person Private Tours: Current Harvard students provide the in person Historical Tour of Harvard to private groups. The tour lasts approximately 45-60 minutes. If you have a group of 15-60 people, you are more than welcome to submit a request for a private walking tour. Audiences of all ages will enjoy the private Historical Tour of Harvard. Tours are offered to K-12 students, college students, the Harvard community, professional groups, and more. All tour requests must go through our online booking system. The request will ask for a form of payment, however your card will not be charged unless your tour is approved. Please note that your tour is not finalized until you receive an email from us confirming your reservation. Once your private tour request has been confirmed, the week before your tour you will receive an email from the Visitor Center with further details about the tour, such as where to meet your tour guide, and more. About Virtual Private Tours: Our student-led virtual private tours include the Historical Tour of Harvard and the Harvard Women’s History Tour. Private tours offer features and special content that enhance the overall Harvard experience for private tour groups. Virtual private tours are conducted via Zoom meetings and run approximately 45-60 minutes. There are no limits for the tour group size on virtual private tours. Audiences of all ages will enjoy virtual private tours of Harvard. Tours are offered to K-12 students, college students, the Harvard community, professional groups, and more. All tour requests must go through our online booking system. The request will ask for a form of payment, however your card will not be charged unless your tour is approved. Please note that your tour is not finalized until you receive an email from us confirming your reservation. Learn More About the Harvard College Admissions Process For more information about Harvard College Admissions, please visit their official website. Their contact information can be found here. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00