Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Admission Explore Professional and Graduate School Programs Graduate Admission The graduate programs at UCLA are some of the most esteemed in the world, consistently ranked in the top 25. Forty doctoral programs rank in the top 10. Our campus offers more than 120 graduate and professional programs, ranging from an extensive selection of business and medical programs to degrees in 40 different languages. On average, UCLA admits 6,000 graduate students of the 21,300 who apply each year. At UCLA, you’ll be among the best and brightest in the world. Our programs combine the learnings of one field with the components of another, to create a hybrid of deep specialized knowledge. The notion that knowledge is produced through multidisciplinary approaches is paramount at UCLA. We offer faculty and graduate students the opportunity to collaborate on research projects and study groups that transcend departments and programs. These collaborations go beyond the campus. UCLA enjoys strong connections to other major universities as well as public and private institutes and firms thanks to its location within Los Angeles. Our graduate students engage with these communities both academically and culturally as a part of the UCLA graduate experience. The students who thrive in the environment are creative, determined and unrelenting in their search for new ways to answer questions. If this sounds like you, check out our programs and learn more about what we have to offer. Applying to a Graduate Program Most graduate applications are processed through the Graduate Education Department. Explore 120+ graduate degree programs and choose the one that’s right for you. Explore Graduate Programs Steps to Apply to a Graduate Program Separate Professional Schools Four of UCLA’s professional programs offer their own specialized application processes. Follow the links below to learn more about admission steps and requirements at these four schools. Anderson School of Management David Geffen School of Medicine School of Dentistry School of Law Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept