Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Safety at Brown Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Sitemap About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Safety at Brown Get Help Now (emergency contacts) Report an Emergency Police/Fire/EMS 401-863-4111 Non-Emergency Public Safety 401-863-3322 Call for Pickup Evening onCall Shuttle 401-863-1778 Brown offers new Sexual Misconduct & Title IX website Visit the new website today! Get a Head Start on Safety! View these practical Move-In Safety Tips and watch the Campus Safety 101 Video to get a head start on campus safety awareness at Brown. Fire Safety is Important for Everyone! View practical fire safety information for your residence today! [email protected] Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 401-863-3476 Sexual Assault Response Line 401-863-6000 Student and Family Crisis Support 401-863-3145, weekdays 401-863-3322, nights/weekends Bear Tips Program The Bear Tips program provides the Brown community with helpful tips to ensure not only ones own safety, but that of their friends, roommates, classmates, co-workers, and the community at large. Bruno Says: We can all do our part to make Brown safe!BU Bear Tips protect yourself Emergency - Police/Fire/EMS 401-863-4111 For any on campus emergency or any emergency involving Brown students, faculty or staff, call 401-863-4111. Read More ... Brown Guardian Mobile Safety Application Get Brown Guardian Brown Guardian is a mobile application which enhances personal safety. Read More ... Self-Defense Classes Want to enhance your ability to recognize and reduce personal safety risks? Learn risk-avoidance skills and practical hands-on resistance strategies through comprehensive self-defense training with DPS. Read More ... Personal Alarms (PALs) A Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) is a small portable device that when activated sounds a loud alarm to draw attention to a dangerous situation or to scare off an offender. Read More ... Campus Safety and You Email the Department of Public Safety (DPS) with your non-emergency campus safety inquiry or concern to receive a direct response from a DPS representative. Read More ... getting around safely Brown University Shuttle Live Shuttle Tracker Brown University Shuttles provide fixed route service across Brown's campus (College Hill, South Main St., Medical School/Jewelry District and hospitals. Read More ... Brown OnCall Shuttle 401-863-1778 Request a Ride For evening point-to-point transportation, request an OnCall Shuttle pickup. Read More ... SEAS onCall Shuttle The Brown SEAS onCall service is a shuttle bus for members of the Brown community who have disabilities and need assistance getting around campus. Read More ... RISD Rides RISD Rides will operate 7 days per week during the academic year, from 5:00 pm - 3:15 am. Read More ... Safewalk 401-863-1079 Why walk alone? Call for a Safewalk escort across campus; there is safety in numbers! Read More ... Blue-Light Emergency Phones Outdoor emergency phones can be used for calling within the university phone system and have an emergency call button (marked in red). Read More ... Pedestrian Safety Whether you are walking to class or heading off-campus to enjoy the mall, here a few quick tips to help you to get there safely. Read More ... Yellow Jackets (Contracted Security Personnel) Have you seen the "Yellow Jacket" security personnel across campus? They are working with DPS to help keep you and our community safe. Read More ... International SOS Register Your Trip International SOS provides Brown University travelers with 24 hour worldwide medical and travel assistance, including emergency evacuation. Read More ... personal crisis support Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) 401-863-3476 Provides free and confidential counseling to Brown students. Staff will also consult with students, faculty and staff who are concerned about the wellbeing of another student. Urgent mental health care is available 24-hours a day. Read More ... Student and Family Crisis Support 401-863-3145 Student Support Services is available to assist students with a wide-range of issues and concerns that might arise during their time at Brown. The Student Support Services Deans provide 24-hour crisis services for undergraduate, graduate, and medical students with personal or family emergencies, and are available by appointment to consult with individual students about their personal questions/concerns. Read More ... Sexual Assault Response Line 401-863-6000 Confidential crisis support and information is available for any Brown student dealing with sexual assault. The on-call counselor is also available to accompany a survivor to the hospital. Read More ... Support for Victims and Survivors of Sensitive Crimes 401-863-2542 Contact the Department of Public Safety (DPS) for comprehensive support services for victims of crime to include safety planning, advocacy, court accompaniment and case assistance. Read More ... SHARE Advocates 401-863-2792 The SHARE (Sexual Harassment & Assault Resources & Education) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources on campus that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment Domestic/Dating Violence Relational Abuse Your two SHARE Advocates are: Read More ... keeping brown safe BrownReady BrownReady describes the emergency preparedness efforts for Brown University which is hosted on the Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) website. Read More ... Report Suspicious Activity (non-emergency) 401-863-3322 Report suspicious activity and persons by calling 401-863-3322. An officer will subsequently be dispatched to the area to investigate the matter. Read More ... Emergency Communications Learn more about the various emergency communication systems utilized at Brown University. Read More ... Hostile Intruder Guidance Information on hostile intruder (aka active shooter) situations or how to handle individuals displaying signs of distress. Read More ... Residential Fire Safety Learn more about the fire safety resouces that Brown has available for on-campus or off-campus living. Read More ... Emergency Action Plan The Brown University Emergency Action Plan has been developed to ensure the safety of Brown students, faculty, staff and guests in the event of any emergency situation. Read More ... Disability Emergency Evacuation Program (DEEP) Learn more about Brown's program for indivuals who may have difficulty evacuating a building during an emergency. Read More ... Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Departments Department of Public Safety Office of Student Life Counseling and Psychological Services Transportation Office Institutional Diversity Health Services Environmental Health and Safety Stay Safe About Safety at Brown Brown Guardian onCall Shuttle Safewalk Personal Safety Alarm (PAL) Brown Ready Health Education Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity