Employers - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UCS - University Career Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Career Services Home About Us Staff Degrees Conferred by Semester Graduation Survey Room Request Form Event Calendar Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Request a Presentation Graduate & Professional Student Resources Alumni Recent Graduates Experienced Alumni Alumni Resources Upcoming Alumni Events Subscribe to Alumni Career Services (ACS) UH Recruitment Series Employers Recruit at UH Become a Sponsor Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Faculty/Staff Meet your Campus Liaison! Request a Presentation Hire a Student Employee View Faculty and Staff Resources Families UH Virutal Education Support Program Cougar Pathway Giving UH Home UCS - University Career Services Employers Employers Page contents: Introduction Meet Our Students Recruiting at UH Employer Testimonials Upcoming Events Connect With Houston Talent The University of Houston is one of the nation’s most diverse urban research universities and is a Carnegie-Designated Tier One public research university. In addition, more than seventy percent of UH students work while attending classes, which prepares them to make an immediate contribution to your organization. Our services are available to all majors and classifications and to UH alumni. University Career Services at the University of Houston can connect you to this high-quality, talented pool of UH students and alumni. Recruiting Post a Job Meet our Students Build your Brand By the Numbers 46,000+Students 3,600+International students 258Degrees offered 10,000+Graduates each year 16Colleges & Schools 21Fulbright Scholars since 2001 103Cultural and ethnic student organizations Fall 2019 Student Distribution by Race and Ethnicity The University of Houston is the second most ethnically diverse major research university in the United States. Students come to UH from more than 137 nations & from across the world. Full list of distribution by race and ethnicity. 32% Hispanic 24% White 21% Asian American 10% African American 7% International Recruiting at the University of Houston University Career Services is the premier career services provider at the University of Houston. As the main career center on the UH campus, we work to connect employers with all 46,000+ students. In addition to our office, we have 6 college based career centers. University Career Services is the hub to get you connected to those college based centers and assist with increasing your brand recognition on campus. Start with UCS Employer Guide College Directory Employer Testimonials “We appreciated the opportunity to participate as an employer at the 2018 STEM Career Fair. It was a great introduction for Amos Global Energy's first career fair. We were impressed with the great turnout and enjoyed meeting and speaking with all of the students.” Chris Hasty Amos Energy Group “The UH Career Services team is one of our most valued partnerships! They have helped us gain momentum with student organizations and increased registration for our Annual Open House event in our corporate office! From career fairs to onsite interviews, no task is too big or too small for this team to tackle! Our talent programs are successful because of them and we are forever grateful!” Aylen Mayton Manager, Talent Programs PROS “A key component of Sysco’s success is being able to hire full time technical talent and invest in future technical talent by providing internship opportunities to students each year. The University of Houston’s year-round career fairs and job board were easy to work with and made scheduling on-site interviews a breeze.” Majid Latif, Senior Data Scientist Sysco Share your Experience Upcoming Events Contact us at UH Main University of Houston University Career Services 106 Student Service Center 1 Houston, TX 77024-3040 713-743-5100 ucs@uh.edu Campus Map Contact us at UH at Sugar Land University of Houston at Sugar Land University Career Services 14000 University Blvd. Sugar Land, Texas 77479-0800 713-743-5091 praut@central.uh.edu Campus Map University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies