Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Determining Your Award Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Determining Your Award Disbursement of Aid Maintaining Eligibility Satisfactory Academic Progress Special Circumstances Withdrawal Policy Fraud Policy Verification TASFA/Senate Bill 1528 SFA Upload Documents Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Determining Your Award Your financial aid award(s) are determined by your cost of attendance (COA) and financial need. Need analysis, the process by which we determine your financial need, uses the information from your FAFSA and is legislated by the U.S. Congress. If the needs analysis shows that the COA is more than the amount you and your family can contribute, you will qualify for financial aid. The need analysis formula utilizes parents’ and a students’ (or student’s and spouse’s) income, assets, savings, taxes, and other mandatory living expenses to determine the expected family contribution (EFC). In addition, parents’ ages, number of dependents in the household and the dependents enrolled in college also are considered. Determining Your Need Costs of Attendance $28,952 EFC – $1,000 Total Need $27,952 You will be notified via e-mail when you have been awarded financial aid. Accept or decline your financial aid award(s) through your myUH self-service account. The EFC figure is not an actual amount that you (or your parents or spouse) have to pay, but it is an approximation of how much you (and your parents or spouse) should reasonably be able to contribute toward your educational expenses. Related Links Net Price Calculator University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies