Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Eagle Exchange Guide Home Resources Eagle Exchange Guide Resources Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Eagle Exchange is an interactive virtual platform that fosters connections between students and Boston College alumni. You can use Eagle Exchange to build your professional network, ask career-related questions, find alumni mentors, apply to projects to build skills, and more. It is up to you to make the most of your Eagle Exchange account. The guide below will help you get started. Quick Links Eagle Exchange Alumni Projects DEI and Career Cluster Groups How To Guide Activate Your Account Complete Your Profile Find a Mentor Join a Group Participate in a Discussion Apply for an Alumni Project Activate Your Account All current Boston College students have access to a free account on Eagle Exchange. How to: Visit eagleexchange.bc.edu Click the “Join the Community” button. Select the "BC Login" button and log in using your Agora login credentials. Questions? If you have questions about Eagle Exchange, email us at eagle.exchange@bc.edu or visit us during drop-in hours. Complete Your Profile Set yourself up for success by completing your profile. You will want to make a good impression when you begin connecting with alumni. This process is similar to creating a LinkedIn profile. How to: Customize your profile by clicking on the circle at the top right hand corner of your profile. Scroll down and click on “my profile”. Complete all sections of your profile, including work experience, courses, extracurricular activities, and more. Add a photo and summary to help your profile stand out. Eagle Exchange will curate a feed of suggested alumni for you to connect with based on your preferences. Like your resume and LinkedIn profile, make sure to keep your profile up to date. Visit Eagle Exchange Tips for Summary Section: The summary is your opportunity to introduce yourself and your brand. Here you can describe yourself (what you study, what your interests are, etc.) and your goals for using the platform (to find a mentor, to learn more about a certain industry, etc). When writing your summary, it is important to remember the audience. Use shorter blocks of text and bulleted lists where appropriate. To make a strong first impression, ensure that your summary is grammatically correct and without typing errors. Questions? If you have questions about Eagle Exchange, email us at eagle.exchange@bc.edu or visit us during drop-in hours. Find a Mentor The key to success on Eagle Exchange is actively reaching out to alumni. You have access to search for and message any alum on the platform. However, alumni do not have access to search for and reach out to you as a student. Therefore, it is up to you to send the first message. How to: Go to the “Explore the Community” tab to view a list of alumni on the platform. Use the filters to narrow down your search. You can filter by industry, major, class year, and more. Based on what you are looking for help with, you can also filter by help topics. Once you find an interesting alum, click on the message button within their profile. You can craft your own message or choose a pre-written template and make it your own. You can choose to request a meeting or simply send a message. If you do request a meeting, you will need to select a topic you would like to discuss and decide how you would like to meet (phone, video, etc.). Click send and monitor your email to wait for a reply. Eagle Exchange will prompt alumni to respond to you within a timely manner. You may come across an alum that you are not able to send a message to. Alumni can set quotas based on the number of students they are able to help at a single time. If you find you can’t send a message, the alum is at their quota. You will need to wait a week or two before messaging them. Find a Mentor Alumni are waiting to hear from you! Alumni are joining Eagle Exchange because they want to help current students. We recommend you reach out to at least 3 alumni per month. Possible topics of discussion include: General advice and networking Choosing a major Graduate or professional school Identifying skills Identity in the workplace Mock interviewing Resume critique Work/life balance Join a Group Groups allow you to connect with others who share your interests. You can join a group to access select resources, network with members, and participate in group discussions. How to: Go to the “Groups” tab to view a list of all the groups. Eagle Exchange has groups for identity and shared interests as well as every career cluster. Join any group that interests you. Within each group, you can view members, resources, and a discussion board. View Groups Participate in a Discussion The discussion board is a place you can learn from others or share your knowledge. Use the discussion board to ask questions (anonymously or as yourself), answer questions, and browse existing questions and answers. How to: Go to the “Discussion” tab. Add a question to the discussion feed by typing in the box at the top of the feed. Check the “Post anonymously” box if you want to post anonymously; the default is posting as yourself. Scroll through the discussion feed to see questions. Use the search box in the upper right if you’re interested in a particular topic or person. Answer a question by clicking in the text field below the question. View Discussion Board Apply for an Alumni Project Eagle Exchange has a project marketplace where alumni can post short-term, meaningful projects for students to complete virtually. Projects offer a non-traditional way for you to gain real-world experience while working with experienced professionals. Alumni will act as mentors to guide you along the way. How to: Go to the “Projects” tab to view a list of open projects. Use the filters to narrow down your search. You can filter by industry and time duration. Scroll through the projects and click into them to view details. Once you find an interesting project, click apply and fill out the details. The alum supervisor will review your application and reach out to you if you are accepted. You will work directly with the alum as you complete the project. View Projects Build Your Skills Alumni are actively adding projects for Boston College students. Types of projects include: Design a logo Create a social media plan Design a website Develop SEO strategies Compose a song Conduct background research Map arsenic in ground soil Why Use Eagle Exchange “[My Alumni Mentor] was so willing to offer me honest advice, get to know me on a deeper, personal level and was incredibly easy to talk to! I felt an instant connection with her, and our conversation was very genuine. She offered me help on how best to take my next step and gave me further contacts to expand my knowledge.” Eagle Exchange Student User “[My Alumni Mentor] was very helpful and encouraged me to discover my path. He was not only helpful in informing me of his own work, but also through his willingness to look over my resume and connect in the future.” Eagle Exchange Student User “[My Alumni Mentor] gave awesome advice and connected to me to valuable resources and opportunities (one at her own company). She even offered to write me a future letter of recommendation!” Eagle Exchange Student User Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College