Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Pediatrics Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Campus News What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Public Health How Parents Can Manage the Baby Formula Shortage Columbia pediatrician Lauren Levine shares her insights on resources to try, ways to plan, and what never to do. How to teach a child to swallow a pill The advanced form of drinking required to swallow a pill is a skill to acquire like any other. Topic General Medicine Latest News Drug that Prevents Lung Problems in Older Preterm Babies Also Lowers Costs March 13, 2019 A drug given to nearly 10 percent of all pregnant women to prevent severe respiratory ailments in preterm babies also reduces health care costs, according to a new study by Columbia researchers. Topic Obstetrics-Gynecology Undiagnosed Asthma in Urban Adolescents May Be Common January 22, 2019 One in five adolescents in New York City may have undiagnosed asthma, a study from Columbia University School of Nursing has found. Topic Nursing What's In a Name? For Psychotropic Medications, Stigma November 1, 2018 Columbia psychiatrists say current names for psychotropic medications adversely affect patient care and clinicians should adopt new names that do not increase stigma. Topic Mental Health In Kids with Autism, Short Questionnaire May Detect GI Disorders October 22, 2018 Though they can be difficult to detect, gastrointestinal disorders are common in kids with autism, sometimes causing anger, aggression, and other behavior problems. Topic Gastroenterology Andrea Califano and Jordan Orange Elected to National Academy of Medicine October 15, 2018 Andrea Califano and Jordan Orange of Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons have been elected to the National Academy of Medicine for their contributions to medical science. Topic Campus News Community Health Workers May Improve Quality of Life for Youth with Sickle Cell October 5, 2018 Community health workers may be able to help youths with sickle cell disease live healthier lives, according to a new study from Columbia's School of Nursing and Department of Pediatrics. Topic Nursing Helping Kids Cope with Back-to-School Anxiety September 7, 2018 For parents struggling with a child's back-to-school anxiety, Columbia University psychologist Anne Marie Albano has some advice. Topic Psychiatry Dr. Darrell Yamashiro to Lead Columbia's Pediatric Oncology Division August 27, 2018 Physician-scientist Darrell Yamashiro, MD, PhD, has been named director of Columbia's Division of Pediatric Hematology, Oncology, & Stem Cell Transplantation. Topic Cancer Prenatal DDT Exposure Associated with Greater Risk of Autism August 21, 2018 A Mailman study of more than 1 million pregnancies in Finland reports that prenatal exposure to elevated levels of DDT is associated with an increased risk for autism. Topic Public Health 5 Questions with Jordan Orange, Chair of Pediatrics August 20, 2018 Understanding why most children are healthy–and how that can reveal new treatments for the sick–is the driving motivation of Columbia’s new chair of pediatrics. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top