0 Skip to Content About Us Mission & Impact Our Team Careers FAQs Research Areas & Funding Programs of Excellence Research Areas Grant Opportunities Awarded Grants Grant FAQs Get Involved Membership Million Dollar Bike Ride Collaborations JumpStart Affiliated Programs News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events Resources Jumpstart Resources Covid Resources ODC Resources Contact Us Open Menu Close Menu About Us Mission & Impact Our Team Careers FAQs Research Areas & Funding Programs of Excellence Research Areas Grant Opportunities Awarded Grants Grant FAQs Get Involved Membership Million Dollar Bike Ride Collaborations JumpStart Affiliated Programs News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events Resources Jumpstart Resources Covid Resources ODC Resources Contact Us Open Menu Close Menu Folder: About Us Back Mission & Impact Our Team Careers FAQs Folder: Research Areas & Funding Back Programs of Excellence Research Areas Grant Opportunities Awarded Grants Grant FAQs Folder: Get Involved Back Membership Million Dollar Bike Ride Folder: Collaborations Back JumpStart Affiliated Programs Folder: News & Events Back News Upcoming Events Past Events Folder: Resources Back Jumpstart Resources Covid Resources ODC Resources Contact Us Assuring access to transformative therapies for all rare disease communities. Who We Are Connecting the dots Research and funding for orphan diseases is grossly unmet. ODC provides technological and educational resources, identifies funding opportunities, and fosters therapeutic development and innovative research. Join Our Mailing List Registration is open! Join us for the 2022 RARE Drug Development Symposium, June 8-10, 2022 at the Philadelphia Sheraton Downtown. This year’s Symposium, hosted in partnership with Global Genes, will be workshop-based, interactive…and have a limited number of participants. Register Today! Bloom Syndrome Grant Program We are pleased to announce the Bloom Syndrome Grant Program. Bloom syndrome is an ultra-rare multi system disorder that substantially increases the risk of developing cancer at an early age. We are seeking grant applications that progress the discovery or development of treatments and/or cures for Bloom Syndrome. This Request for Applications (RFA) is open to all academic scientists and commercial entities in the international research community. Apply Today! 10 Crucial Years for Rare Disease Research Penn Medicine News January 1, 2022 A pioneer in the field of orphan diseases and gene therapy, James M. Wilson, MD, PhD, reflects on 10 years of leading Penn’s Orphan Disease Center. Read More Special Statement from Dr. Jim Wilson, Rose H. Weiss Professor and Director, Orphan Disease Center Posted 6 August 2021 I am deeply saddened to share with you the news that our friend and colleague Tachi Yamada passed away on Wednesday, August 4, 2021. Tachi served as the chair of the External Advisory Committee of the Orphan Disease Center. He was the biggest cheerleader for the ODC, and we benefited from his thoughtful, wise counsel for many years. Throughout Tachi’s long career, he was a staunch supporter of rare disease drug development and a crusader for the underserved, including those living with very rare diseases. He recognized that we are entering into an exciting new phase of rare disease research where treatments and possibly cures are within reach. Tachi was a big thinker and felt that the Orphan Disease Center could play a leadership role in this therapeutic revolution. Tachi’s tragic and unexpected death cut short his journey with us although his vision will live on through the work of the ODC. It was clear to me that a final chapter for his storied career was to make gene therapy a reality and to assure that persons of all populations would have access to these treatments. While Tachi will not be with us as we continue our journey, the lessons he has taught us will serve as a beacon of light to show us the way. The Orphan Disease Center will work with Tachi’s friends and family in the coming months to help celebrate his life. In the United States, orphan diseases represent a collection of disorders that afflict fewer than 200,000 individuals for any single disease type. There are more than 7,000 distinct orphan diseases. In the aggregate, over 25 million people in the United States suffer substantial morbidity and mortality from orphan diseases. Despite this huge number, research in most disease types has lagged far behind other major areas due to a combination of technological and funding limitations. The Orphan Disease Center of the University of Pennsylvania exists to facilitate and fund research, and develop transformative therapies for rare diseases with significant unmet need. We aim to make rare disease research accessible, collaborative, and sustainable. Programs & Initiatives Grant Opportunities The ODC offers over 50 grant opportunities in 30+ disease areas annually to researchers across the globe, as well as within the Penn and CHOP community. Since 2011, our grant programs have funded $37.6 million in rare disease research. JumpStart The JumpStart program serves to establish and progress research agendas in emerging and neglected rare diseases. The JumpStart program partners with patient groups and families to address gaps by identifying key opinion leaders and introducing new researchers to a disease. Million Dollar Bike Ride The ODC is proud to partner with 30+ disease teams made up of patients, caregivers, foundations and family members who tirelessly raise much-needed funds for research grants. Diseases We Study Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis CDKL5 Deficiency Disorder (CDD) Mucopolysaccharidoses Contact Us Million Dollar Bike Ride Events Careers Join Our Mailing List! Make A Gift University of Pennsylvania TRL Suite 1200 125 South 31st Street Philadelphia PA 19104 The Orphan Disease Center is part of the University of Pennsylvania’s School of Medicine