Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Dance 261 Meany Hall 206-543-9843 Website Faculty Website uwdance@uw.edu The UW Department of Dance prepares the next generation of performers, educators, arts advocates, and cultural leaders. At its core lies the recognition of art as the confluence of theory, practice, and creativity. With a commitment to respecting the individual, the Dance Program fosters inquiry and engages the community in open-minded exchange. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Dance Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Creative Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Dance Studies Program of Study: Minor: Dance Minor in Dance Graduate Programs Program of Study: Master Of Fine Arts (Dance) Master Of Fine Arts (Dance) Undergraduate Programs Dance 261 Meany Hall 206-543-9843 danceadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Dance Program Overview The Dance Major curriculum offers an in-depth study of dance as an art form and cultural practice. Students are given the opportunity to explore dance from several analytical and methodological frameworks: technical, creative, historical, cultural, aesthetic, pedagogical and scientific, resulting in a rigorous balance between creative work and academic study. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Creative Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Dance Studies Admission Requirements Applicants who meet the following requirements are accepted during autumn, winter, and spring quarters on a rolling basis. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA. Successful completion of 5 credits in any of the required core courses for the major. Successful completion of or registration in at least one technique course. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance Credential Overview Students entering the award winning UW Dance Program discover a learning community where artists/scholars thrive in an environment that promotes access, inclusion and excellence. We offer a diverse and stimulating educational experience, rooted in the liberal arts, and dedicated to connecting theoretical inquiry to experiential learning. Students considering careers in performance and choreography, dance education, dance related fields such as arts administration and physical therapy, or those interested in pursuing graduate studies in dance may choose from a variety of options culminating in a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in dance. Completion Requirements Minimum 56-65 credits, depending on credential/option Core Courses (minimum 32 credits): DANCE 166; DANCE 242; DANCE 250 (5 credits); DANCE 251; DANCE 271 (1 credit); and DANCE 493 (5 credits); one of DANCE 101, DANCE 344 (5 credits), or DANCE 345 (5 credits); DANCE 494 (3 credits) or DANCE 480 (strongly suggest both) Technique Courses: Minimum 15 credits from approved 200-level or higher dance technique courses, representing at least four different movement idioms. See adviser for approved list. Additional requirements specified below. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Minimum 9 credits Electives: See adviser for approved list. A core course or technique course on the electives list may not be used for both an elective and technique/core requirement. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Creative Studies Credential Overview The Dance Major curriculum offers an in-depth study of dance as an art form and cultural practice. Students are given the opportunity to explore dance from several analytical and methodological frameworks: technical, creative, historical, cultural, aesthetic, pedagogical and scientific, resulting in a rigorous balance between creative work and academic study. Completion Requirements Minimum 56-65 credits, depending on credential/option Core Courses (minimum 32 credits): DANCE 166; DANCE 242; DANCE 250 (5 credits); DANCE 251; DANCE 271 (1 credit); and DANCE 493 (5 credits); one of DANCE 101, DANCE 344 (5 credits), or DANCE 345 (5 credits); DANCE 494 (3 credits) or DANCE 480 (strongly suggest both) Technique Courses: Minimum 15 credits from approved 200-level or higher dance technique courses, representing at least four different movement idioms. See adviser for approved list. Additional requirements specified below. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (minimum 17 credits) Either DANCE 266; DANCE 270; DANCE 480 or DANCE 494 (whichever not taken for core) Minimum 10 additional credits selected from approved, advanced 300-level or higher dance technique courses. See adviser for approved list. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Dance: Dance Studies Completion Requirements Minimum 56-65 credits, depending on credential/option Core Courses (minimum 32 credits): DANCE 166; DANCE 242; DANCE 250 (5 credits); DANCE 251; DANCE 271 (1 credit); and DANCE 493 (5 credits); one of DANCE 101, DANCE 344 (5 credits), or DANCE 345 (5 credits); DANCE 494 (3 credits) or DANCE 480 (strongly suggest both) Technique Courses: Minimum 15 credits from approved 200-level or higher dance technique courses, representing at least four different movement idioms. See adviser for approved list. Additional requirements specified below. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (18 credits) Either DANCE 350 or DANCE 420; DANCE 415; DANCE 416 Minimum 9 credits additional approved electives based on individual interests and agreed to in conjunction with Dance Program adviser or faculty member Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Dance Program Overview The Minor in Dance is open to all students who select from a wide range of practice-based and academic courses to investigate dance through a range of learning modalities. Practice-based courses include African and African-Diasporic dance, Western concert dance, somatic practices, and social dance. Students connect experiential learning to artistic, scientific, and humanistic modes of inquiry in a range of academic courses. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Dance Minor in Dance Completion Requirements Minimum 25 credits 10 credits from Dance academic courses, and 15 credits from Dance technique courses. See adviser for approved lists. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The Dance Program curriculum provides a balance between academic rigor and artistic development and serves as a basis for a broad range of career choices in dance related and other fields demanding strong communication skills, creativity, commitment, and the ability to work collaboratively and independently. Majors are encouraged to supplement their dance studies with coursework in other disciplines that provide a foundation for later specialization in dance ethnology, dance history and criticism, performance art, education, movement therapy, or movement science. Instructional and Research Facilities: Three spacious and well-equipped dance studios in Meany Hall. A video and sound editing facility. Use of Meany Hall and the Meany Studio Theatre for Dance Program performances. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Dance Endorsement: See department website. Department Scholarships: See adviser. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: See adviser. Student Organizations/Associations: Dance Student Association Graduate Program Dance 255 Meany Hall (206) 543-4178 uwdance@uw.edu Program of Study: Master Of Fine Arts (Dance) Program Overview The program offers graduate study leading to an MFA that prepares dance artists (with a minimum eight years professional performance experience) for careers in higher education. The full two-year program begins mid June and includes summer quarter study. MFA candidates are supported in the development of a scholarly dimension to their creative work in dance, receive a tuition waiver, and earn a monthly stipend in exchange for working as a teaching assistant in the Dance Program. For more information visit: dance.washington.edu/graduate-programs This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Fine Arts (Dance) Admission Requirements Please see this program's Graduate Admissions page for requirements. Master Of Fine Arts (Dance) Completion Requirements 71 credits Required Courses (44 credits): DANCE 510 Chamber Dance Production (16 credits total), DANCE 515, DANCE 516, DANCE 519, DANCE 520, DANCE 521, DANCE 530 (2 credits total), DANCE 531 (6 credits total), DANCE 590, DANCE 595 Competency Courses (10 credits): DANCE 545, DANCE 493 Elective Courses (to meet required total credits): Any course numbered 400-level and above taken while in graduate student status at the UW.For exceptions, see the Graduate Program Coordinator. Note: A student may request a competency waiver for 2 credits of DANCE 530, 3 credits of DANCE 531, and as many as 10 credits for DANCE 545 and 493. In these cases, elective courses will be taken to replace waived courses. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA