Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Aid Federal School Code: 003425 Deadlines and Timeline Deadlines and processing time Deadlines and Processing Time Program Deadline Clemson Scholarships Apply for admissions by December 1, with the admissions process and the submission of ACT/SAT scores completed by December 31. (Need-Based Scholarships require the FAFSA submitted by January 2.) Scholarships will be added to the bill 24 hours after accepting the Terms and Conditions on iROAR. University Scholarship Appeals are reviewed during the Fall semester each academic year. The Scholarship Appeal Form and supporting documentation must be submitted by the last day to register, add a class, or declare Audit. Federal SEOG Priority Deadline: FAFSA submitted by January 2 for first-year students and April 1 for continuing students and transfers. If selected for verification, federal grants will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Students must read the Terms and Conditions on iROAR. Federal Work-Study Priority Deadline: FAFSA submitted by January 2 for first-year students and April 1 for continuing students and transfers. If selected for verification, Federal Work-Study will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Students must read the Terms and Conditions on iROAR. Students will be notified to set up a profile and apply for jobs in early July. SC Need-Based Grant Priority Deadline: FAFSA submitted by January 2 for first-year students and April 1 for continuing students and transfers. If selected for verification, state grants will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Students must read the Terms and Conditions and the State Aid Affidavit on iROAR. Federal Pell Grant Recommended Deadline: FAFSA submitted by June 1. If selected for verification, federal grants will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Students must read the Terms and Conditions on iROAR. Federal Student Loans Recommended Deadline: FAFSA submitted by June 1. If selected for verification, federal loans will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Once loans have been accepted, it will take two weeks to process loans. If we request you to complete entrance loan counseling and/or a Master Promissory Note at studentaid.gov, it will take 3 to 5 business days to receive notification from the Department of Education. PLUS Loans Recommended Deadline: FAFSA submitted by June 1 and loan application submitted by June 30. If selected for verification, federal loans will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Once a loan has been applied for and pre-approved, it will take 2 to 3 weeks to process the loan. If we request you to complete a PLUS Loan Master Promissory Note at studentaid.gov, it will take 3 to 5 business days for us to receive notification from the Department of Education. If you are using an endorser or have been approved after an appeal for the PLUS loan, you must complete PLUS Counseling at studentaid.gov. Private Loans Recommended Deadline: Loan application submitted by June 30. If selected for verification, private loans will be added to the bill after verification is complete (3 to 4 weeks processing time). Once a loan has been applied for and pre-approved, it will take 3 to 4 weeks to process the loan. SC Teacher Loan Priority Deadline - April 15: Application is typically available February 1 — funding is limited, so apply early. The original application must be submitted to Curriculum & Instruction, 105 Tillman Hall before the loan application can be processed. Make sure the application is for the correct academic year. The Office of Student Financial Aid will receive loan approvals in July. Timeline Timeline August First-year students - apply for admission. First-year students - review your application and remember deposit deadlines for housing, financial aid, orientation, etc. All students -start and maintain a sound system of record keeping. All students - satisfy University fees by paying the balance on the iROAR portal. Students with state scholarships - if you seek to regain a scholarship for an upcoming academic year, you must submit the Request for Academic Forgiveness form to 104 Sikes Hall before the first day of class of the Fall semester. September All students -be sure you meet the credit hour enrollment requirement for each of your financial aid awards as of midnight on the last day to drop classes without a W based on the academic calendar. Please see the Enrollment Requirements section of the Terms and Conditions for more information. Withdrawing from a class later may impact your Federal Pell Grant. October All students - complete and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) using the IRS Data Retrieval Tool with appropriate year's tax information. November All students - complete FREE online scholarship searches. First-year students - search local scholarships with high school, parents' employers, place of worship, and community sources. First-year students - check with your high school to apply for Palmetto Fellows if a South Carolina resident (More information on eligibility requirements.) December First-year students - make sure to apply for admission by the priority deadline of December 1 and finish the Admissions process, along with the submission of ACT/SAT scores, by December 31. January All undergraduate students - monitor credit hours and grades needed for scholarship renewal(s). February All students - plan for summer school if needed. March Continuing students and transfers - ensure the FAFSA has been completed before the April 1 deadline. All students - respond promptly to all email requests from the financial aid office (verification forms, copies of IRS Tax Return Transcripts, etc.). April First-year students - accept your financial aid via the iROAR portal when notified. First-year students - analyze and compare award letters from all schools if undecided. May First-year students - commit to Clemson University by May 1. New students with federal loans -complete entrance loan counseling and sign Master Promissory Note at www.studentloans.gov. June Continuing students and transfers - accept your financial aid via the iROAR portal when notified. All students - determine remaining out-of-pocket expenses and apply for a Federal Parent PLUS loan or private loan if needed— more information. July Students with Federal Work-Study - obtain a Federal Work-Study job (if awarded) through the secure website when notified. Home Types of Students Types of Aid Aid Eligibility Deadlines and Timeline Costs Forms and Resources Summer Session Aid Terms and Conditions FAQ Contact Us Consumer Information Related Links iROAR Financial Literacy Residency Classification Accepted Students International Services Graduate School Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram