Alert By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Toggle menu Search the University Search the University Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Online Online Programs The Experience Why Online Veteran and Military Online Student Support FAQs Home Online Why Online Why Online? As an online student at Syracuse University, you’ll follow the same curriculum and learn from the same renowned faculty as on-campus students—all with a flexibility that meets your needs. Best Graduate Schools for Public Affairs (U.S. News & World Report, 2020) Private School for Veterans (Military Times Best for Vets, 2020 rankings) Number Two Graduate Program in Information Systems (U.S. News & World Report, 2020) First Online Joint J.D./M.B.A Program in the Nation Nina A. Kohn, Faculty Director of Online Education, College of Law World-Class Faculty Learn from the same dedicated, expert faculty who teach our on-campus classes. You'll engage with top scholars and practitioners who are innovators and leaders in their fields. Rob Edwards ’85, Hollywood screenwriter A Global Network of 260,000+ Alumni When you enroll in an online program through Syracuse University, the value of your education extends far beyond graduation. You’ll have access to network with powerful alumni and continuously build your professional skills through engaging online programs and events. Take the next step: Find Your Program PopularToggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-ZToggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search ContactToggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift LoginToggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Like Syracuse on Facebook Follow Syracuse on Twitter Subscribe to Syracuse on YouTube Follow Syracuse on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy