Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Resources Graduation Congratulations Seniors! Graduation is near. Preparing to graduate takes time and planning. Carefully review the following deadlines and instructions required for the graduation process. Last Day to File for Graduation Summer 2022 - April 6, 2022 Fall 2022 - July 6, 2022 Spring 2023 - November 9, 2022 Students designing their own degree must have an approved baccalaureate contract by the stated deadlines. Additionally, students seeking alternative credits through ELC, CLEP, DSST, etc. must have credits posted to their University of Memphis transcript prior to being issued a permit for the UNIV 4995 Senior Project. UNIV 4995 can only be taken in the final semester of course work and permits will not be issued if alternative credits have not been posted to the transcript. Note: The above requirements must be met in order to remain on the appropriate graduation list. Apply to Graduate. Log-in to your student account at http://my.memphis.edu and find the “My Degree” page located among the links at the top of your account. (Note: You may have more links in your account than pictured below. Look through all links at the top to find My Degree) Read and follow the instructions in the “Commencement and Graduation” block. Once your advisor reviews and approves your graduation plan, a permit for your Senior Project course (UNIV 4995) will be issued. Please be patient with your advisor as your Plan needs careful review. Permits are issued between the last day to apply to graduate and up to the start of your final semester. Check your UM email regularly for your Graduation Agreement Packet. Packets will be emailed to qualified students starting the day after the graduation application deadline. Once you complete this packet and return it to our office, this will be the final step in the College of Professional &Liberal Studies graduation process. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/31/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.