Stay SafeThe official source of public health information for Syracuse University Skip to Content Open Close primary navigation About AdmissionsExpand Collapse section Undergraduate Graduate Contact Admissions AcademicsExpand Collapse section Programs & Degrees Exercise Science Food Studies Human Development & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health School of Social Work Sport Management Students Research Alumni & Friends ContactExpand Collapse section Contact Us College Directory Get Involved Give Social Media Search Search People Search Give | Get Involved | Connect Close dialog Contact Us Give Get Involved Social Media Exercise Science Food Studies Human Dev. & Family Science Marriage & Family Therapy Nutrition Science & Dietetics Public Health Social Work Sport Management News & Headlines Passion for Social Work May 26, 2022 Bre'Yona Montalvo knows she wants to be in a helping profession. As the first recipient of the Sunflower Scholarship established by Falk College Advisory Board member and School of Social Work alumna Stacy Helfstein, Montalvo is on her way… Sticks Together May 12, 2022 No idea is too big for Sarah Thompson, a sport management major and member of the Syracuse University women's ice hockey team who is spending three weeks in Argentina teaching children from a low-income neighborhood how to play street hockey… Graduate School’s ‘Greatest Honor’ May 11, 2022 Ying Zhang came to Falk College as an international student, a first-generation Ph.D. student, a woman of color, and someone speaking English as a second language. Through it all, Zhang persevered and now the mother of two is being honored as Syracuse University’s 2022 Graduate School student marshal… Faculty of the Year Awards May 11, 2022 Professors Kenneth Marfilius, David Meluni, and Latha Ramalingam were honored with Falk College Faculty of the Year awards for their outstanding teaching, scholarship, and internal and professional service contributions in 2021… Closing the Digital Divide May 9, 2022 To examine the digital divide and its entanglement with various forms of systemic inequality in the Syracuse area, Falk's School of Social Work hosted the 22nd James L. Stone Legislative Policy Day April 22 at the Onondaga County Courthouse… Finding community in public health May 3, 2022 A chance meeting on the other side of the world in Bali, Indonesia, proved to be a pivotal step in the journey Emily Graham ’22 took to Syracuse. It prompted her to see what the University offers for veterans, and she would not be disappointed… Read More News Upcoming Events Please check the main Syracuse University calendar for additional upcoming events. Full SU Event Calendar All Falk College Events Falk College, Syracuse, NY 13244 Like Us on Facebook Follow Us on Twitter Subscribe to Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy Faculty & Staff