Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Academics Academics Undergraduate Minors and Programs Interdisciplinary Studies Interdisciplinary Studies Asian Studies The Asian Studies Program is the University's institutional focus for experts, events and programs related to Asia and is the key contact point for the media and the greater Dallas community. Biochemistry The Biochemistry Program reflects the interdisciplinary nature of modern biochemistry and includes courses in physics, mathematics, chemistry and biology. Biophysical Sciences A rigorous degree program that provides a strong foundation for careers in medicine or research. Data Science Data science is an exciting field, with its emphasis on using data to describe and understand the world around us. It applies ideas and methods from statistics, computer science, and optimization to find innovative solutions to important problems in many areas. Digital Humanities European Studies The European Studies Program provides students with an opportunity to design an interdisciplinary program of study that will give them an in-depth knowledge of European history, culture, politics and society. Human Rights The Human Rights Program is educating a new generation of visionary changemakers to defend and demand human dignity. We offer a unique experience that challenges students to think beyond the classroom and encourages compassion and inclusion. International and Area Studies The International and Area Studies Program provides students with the opportunity to design an interdisciplinary program of study that facilitates an understanding of the human experience in a global perspective, while at the same time allowing them to develop in-depth knowledge and expertise in a specific geographical area. Jewish Studies Jewish Studies offers students of all backgrounds a broad range of courses in history, religious studies, popular culture, literature, music and art history that examine Jewish culture and religion as well as the Jewish people and the State of Israel. Monthly lunch and guest lectures provide additional learning opportunities. Students can explore the contributions Jews have made to human civilization around the world, from the Bible and Maimonides to Sondheim and Seinfeld, as well as pivotal chapters in Jewish history. Beginning Fall 2015, students may elect a minor in Jewish Studies. Markets and Culture Markets and Culture curriculum provides students with an opportunity to learn about the world’s marketplaces from an interdisciplinary vantage point. Students take core courses in a variety of the innovative fields including economic sociology. The curriculum is also designed to easily facilitate study abroad opportunities, studies at the SMU Taos campus and completing a second major. Medieval Studies The Medieval Studies Program affords students an opportunity for a “classically” liberal education within a broad subset of “Western” (Celtic, Franconic, Italic, Germanic, Visigothic) and “non-Western” (Byzantine, Islamic, Persian) contexts. Public Policy The Public Policy Program is an interdisciplinary program in economics and political science that is designed to provide students with the analytical skills and historical context to understand and deal with contemporary policy issues. Women's and Gender Studies The Women's and Gender Studies Program enables students to explore the social and cultural effects of gender difference. The courses, covering several disciplines, introduce students to scholarship on the long-overlooked social and cultural contributions of women, on the social meanings of masculinity and femininity, and on sexual identity. Undergraduate Minors and Programs Minors Programs Interdisciplinary Studies Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube