Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Arts and Humanities Date May 19, 2021 2021-05-19 Media Contact Maggie Spear [email protected] 401-863-7287 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email ‘Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century’ installed on Brown’s College Green The University’s public art collection will host British artist Rebecca Warren’s huge bronze sculpture, a comment on gender, identity and the role of monuments in public space, for the next five years. "Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century” will remain on campus through 2026. Photo by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University PROVIDENCE, R.I [Brown University] — Passersby venturing across Brown’s College Green in recent days may likely have noticed a striking new addition to the University’s public art collection. Installed prominently near Friedman Hall on Friday, May 14, a 6-foot-tall bronze sculpture by distinguished contemporary sculptor Rebecca Warren now greets students, staff and faculty as they walk onto the green from George Street. A team of workers carefully install the sculpture May 14 on the College Green. Photo by Stephen Crocker/Brown University The British artist creates bronze, clay and steel sculptures that are not so much literal transcriptions of the human body, but rather seem to reflect the messy vigor and vitality of being alive, often with a sensual flair. Dietrich Neumann, a professor of the history of art and architecture who chairs Brown’s Public Art Working Group, says that “Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century” — with its exaggerated, knobby and vaguely humanoid figure — is no exception. The artwork presents a visceral, boisterous comment on the roles of gender, identity and the male gaze in the 20th century, he said, and adds a dynamic and humorous counterpart to Henry Moore’s “Reclining Figure No. 2 — Bridge Prop” and Giuseppe Penone’s “Idee di Pietra,” two nearby installations on the College Green. It’s also sure to provoke discussion, especially after a series of spirited events during the academic year about the role of monuments in public spaces. “By calling the piece a ‘monument,’ Warren questions what we have habitually put on pedestals in public space,” Neumann said. “Her piece thus provides a provocative contribution to our intense debates about monuments on campus last year, which we hope to continue as students return.” Warren prioritizes texture in her work and is known for her tactile, visceral three-dimensional forms. Photo by Nick Dentamaro/Brown University In response to the installation, Brown’s David Winton Bell Gallery will exhibit “Spectrums: Gender in the Bell Collection” through July 18. “Spectrums” contains myriad interpretations of gender that are not always “concretised” or reified, but rather embodied and performed in unexpected ways. Brown community members enrolled in the University’s COVID-19 testing program can make a reservation to view the exhibition. Neumann said that additional programming, including a discussion with Warren, will be scheduled during the 2021-22 academic year. A loan to Brown’s public art collection, the sculpture arrived through the generosity of an anonymous donor and will remain on the College Green through 2026. “Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century,” which Warren created in 2007, has been displayed in the New York City Civic Center and London’s Chiswick Park, among other locations. The sculpture comes to Brown through the work of the Public Art Working Group in collaboration with the Corporation’s Subcommittee on Public Art, both of which are dedicated to making public art part of the day-to-day experience of campus and to enriching the cultural, intellectual and scholarly life of the University and the broader communities. Tags Campus Development Related news: Arts and Humanities John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers May 11, 2022 A new collection of drafts, notes and correspondence from playwright José Rivera gives scholars a window into one artist’s process and provides new perspective on the lived experiences of Latin Americans. Read Article Open details for John Hay Library acquires Puerto Rican playwright’s personal papers Arts and Humanities Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute April 27, 2022 Kleinman, who currently serves as provost at Rhode Island School of Design, will lead the development and implementation of academic programs within Brown University’s Arts Institute. Read Article Open details for Kent Kleinman appointed faculty director of the Brown Arts Institute Arts and Humanities Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy April 18, 2022 Michael Steinberg, a professor of music and history at Brown, has curated a new exhibition on Richard Wagner, one of the 19th century’s most influential and problematic cultural figures, in Berlin. Read Article Open details for Brown music historian weighs in on racism, Russia and Wagner’s legacy Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ‘Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century’ installed on Brown’s College Green Open details for ‘Large Concretised Monument to the Twentieth Century’ installed on Brown’s College Green Bookmark this Page