Skip to main content Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Map Directory bConnected News Toggle navigation Map Directory bConnected News About From a group of academic pioneers in 1868 to the Free Speech Movement in 1964, Berkeley is a place where the brightest minds from across the globe come together to explore, ask questions and improve the world. Overview By the numbers History & discoveries Traditions Experience Berkeley Visit Leadership Admissions Want to change the world? At Berkeley we’re doing just that. When you join the Golden Bear community, you’re part of an institution that shifts the global conversation every single day. Overview Undergraduate Graduate Financial aid Tuition UC Berkeley Extension Summer sessions Study abroad Academics Berkeley is home to some of the world's greatest minds leading more than 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units and addressing the world’s most pertinent challenges. Overview Schools & colleges Departments & programs Class schedule & courses Advising & tutoring Faculty profiles Academic calendar Research From expeditions to Egypt in the late 1800s to stem cell research and artificial intelligence today, Berkeley has been at the forefront of research throughout its history. Here students can work side-by-side with Nobel Laureates, Fields medal winners, Fulbright Scholars and MacArthur fellows. Overview Research programs Libraries Publications Museums & collections Undergraduate research Campus Life Life at Berkeley blends research and reflection, the scientific with the artistic, and the scholarly with the athletic. Our students come from different places and backgrounds, but together they create a diverse and kinetic community that seeks to create a better world. Overview Events & attractions Recreational Sports Cal Athletics Housing & dining Student organizations Health & safety Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Give Housing & dining Berkeley housing Compare campus housing options, rates, apply online and learn about life in the residence hall community. Berkeley Student Cooperative Learn about student co-ops, nonprofit housing cooperatives for Berkeley students. Over 1,300 students live at 17 houses and three apartment cooperatives around the Berkeley campus. Fraternities and sororities Interested in Greek life at Berkeley? Find out about fraternities and sororities, Greek system initiatives, scholarships and more. International House Since 1930, International House has been home to Berkeley students and scholars from around the world. Browse housing options, social and cultural events and support services for international residents. Cal Dining Explore meal plans and menus, dining hall locations and campus cafes and sustainability practices for Berkeley's self-operated, full-service dining operation. Cal rentals Looking for a rental? Students, faculty and staff can get information about the local rental market, advice for conducting a housing search and search listings. Campus cafes Need a quick meal between visiting classes and seeing sights? Try these campus favorites. Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Medium Visit Jobs News Blog Events Libraries Cal Athletics Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Accreditation Light the Way HEERF Report Nondiscrimination Websites A-Z Directory Map Contact us Privacy Accessibility Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved