Toggle navigation About University of Houston UH-Clear Lake UH-Downtown UH-Victoria Mission Statement Planning and Performance UHS Leadership Board of Regents Board Members Former Regents Committee Structure Meetings Code of Ethics Bylaws Policies Priorities Galleries FAQ Historical Office Staff Chancellor About Renu Khator Communications Governmental Relations Texas Legislature US Congress Useful Links Offices Compliance & Ethics Internal Audit Legal Affairs Real Estate Services Treasury News Quick Links Crossroads (Title IX - Sexual Misconduct) Online Degree Programs Student Pathways DACA Information Public Art Home News Article News Richard Walker Appointed President of University of Houston-Clear Lake By Shawn Lindsey 713-743-5725 May 23, 2022 Richard Walker, president of the University of Houston-Clear Lake Richard Walker has been appointed by Chancellor Renu Khator to become the sixth president to lead the University of Houston-Clear Lake (UHCL) subject to UH System Board of Regents approval. Walker was appointed interim president at UHCL in October 2021 and served as vice chancellor and vice president for student affairs and enrollment services at the UH System and the University of Houston. “Dr. Walker is a seasoned educational administrator who has demonstrated a commitment to students and academic excellence in each role he has served during his distinctive career as an educator,” said Khator, chancellor of the University of Houston System. “I am pleased to appoint him as president and look forward to the continued growth and distinction UHCL will experience under his leadership.” Walker brings nearly four decades of valuable experience in higher education at both public and private institutions. Prior to joining UH in 2011, Walker served in roles of increasing responsibility during his more than 24 years at the University of Miami, including associate dean of students, director of student life and associate vice president for student affairs. “The past seven months as interim president have illuminated the incredible power and potential of UHCL, which makes the opportunity to be its next president so exciting,” said Walker. “I am honored and look forward to working with the UHCL community in our shared efforts to fulfill the mission and vision of this great university.” Walker holds a Doctor of Education degree from the University of Miami, a specialist of education and bachelor’s degree from Middle Tennessee State University, and a master’s degree in educational administration from the University of Memphis. A national search was conducted to fill the UHCL presidency, chaired by Robert “Bob” Glenn, president of the University of Houston-Victoria. The presidential search committee was comprised of various constituent groups and partners of the university, including faculty, staff, students, administrators, alumni and community members. “I want to thank President Glenn, the search committee and Anthem Executive search firm for their efforts in selecting UHCL’s next president,” said Khator. “This position is vitally important in not only serving UHCL and its students, but understanding the vital role UHCL has in the regional economy. In Richard Walker, they have identified a strategic leader and community builder who can foster continued growth and success beyond the confines of campus.” Since welcoming students in 1974, University of Houston-Clear Lake has flourished into a four-year university offering more than 80 undergraduate, graduate and doctoral programs in UHCL’s four colleges including the Colleges of Business, Education, Human Sciences and Humanities, and Science and Engineering. Categories: System Only . Houston Texas 77204 © 2022 University of Houston System Contacts • Report Copyright Infringement • Texas.gov • Texas Homeland Security • TRAIL • Fraud Reporting • Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline • Linking Notice • Privacy Notice • Open Records/Public Information Act • Institutional Résumé • Required Reports • Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility • Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness • UH System Policies