Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Researcher Resources Identify Interest Getting StartedCommon Funding OpportunitiesInternal Funding OpportunitiesCollaboration and Networking ERA Getting StartedCayuse TrainingImportant FormsSponsor News & Updates Route & Submit Getting Started Electronic Research Administration PI Eligibility Research Forms & Guides Sponsor Guidance Research Compliance Getting StartedHuman Subjects (IRB)Research Data SecurityFinancial Conflict of InterestAnimal Care (IACUC)Export Controls Award & Grants Getting StartedSponsored AgreementsAdvance AccountsNon-Financial Post-AwardReports and DeliverablesSubaward AdministrationClosing the Award Training Resources Training CalendarCurrent Training ResourcesArchive of Past TrainingFIT Training ResourcesCayuse TrainingCoRS Training How do I? Institutional Information Research Forms Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Researchers PI Eligibility Principal Investigator Eligibility Faculty are primarily responsible for the quality and reputation of the University and should routinely serve as Principal Investigator or Project Director (PI/PD). Because of the significant delegation of responsibility and authority, only employees of the university may be designated PI/PD. Part-time employees may have significant duties, and responsibilities outside of the University and temporary employees may lack commitment to the University; therefore, individuals designated to serve as PI/PD should be employed in full-time, base-budgeted positions. GUIDELINES Individuals employed as Faculty or Staff may serve as the Principal Investigator (PI) or the Project Director (PD) on sponsored programs. Students and individuals employed in Temporary Academic Positions may only serve as the PI/PD with prior approval by the Executive Vice President for Research & Innovation. Students, Temporary Academic Positions, Adjunct Faculty and other individuals not employed by UofM may serve as a Multiple Principal Investigator (MPI) provided that a Faculty member agrees to serve as Contact PI and the Leadership Plan is approved by the Office of Sponsored Programs. HELPFUL DEFINITIONS Adjunct Faculty: Individuals not employed by the University but who have a formal academic relationship approved by academic personnel services or approved by the Graduate School. Adjunct Faculty employed as part-time instructors come under the guideline for Temporary Academic Positions. Co-Investigator (Co-I): This title designates key personnel without the oversight responsibilities of the Principal Investigator or Project Director; therefore, individuals designated as Co-I do not need to meet the qualifications to be PI. Co-Principal Investigator (Co-PI): Co-PI is the same as Multiple Principal Investigator (MPI.) Under the multiple principal investigators concept, the National Science Foundation will refer to multiple investigators as Co-PI (while the National Institutes of Health will refer to each multiple investigator as PI). Co-Principal Investigator / Project Director (Co-PI/PD): Co-PI/PD as currently used on the Proposal Summary Form means Co-Investigator (key personnel on a project other than the PI/PD.) Use of Co-PI/PD will be phased out and replaced with MPI. Contact PI: Projects with multiple principal investigators must designate a Contact PI who is responsible for communications among the project team, the sponsor, and UofM administration units. The Contact PI will be entered on the Proposal Summary Form as PI/PD. Sponsors may permit rotating which MPI is the Contact PI; however, for logistical reasons, all UofM documentation will be filed under the original Contact PI as shown on the Proposal Summary Form. Faculty: For use in this guideline, Faculty is defined as employees with the following Banner characteristics: 1. Employee class code “F9” or “FA” on PEAEMPL form; 2. Status code “Full Time” on PEAEMPL form; 3. Budget profile “EDUGEN” on NBAPBUD form; 4. Budget profile “GRANTS” on NBAPBUD form where the funding source is either a Chair of Excellence or a Center of Excellence Multiple Principal Investigator (MPI): This title identifies two or more individuals who share responsibility for the conduct of the project in accordance with the Leadership Plan for MPI Projects. Principal Investigator (PI): This title identifies the individual responsible for the conduct of the project. Responsibilities include the intellectual conduct of the project, fiscal accountability, administration, and compliance. Project Director (PD): This title identifies an individual responsible for the conduct of the project. Project Director has the same responsibilities as Principal Investigator but is the traditional title used for non-research sponsored programs. Staff: For use in this guideline, Staff is defined as employees having managerial or supervisory responsibilities with the following Banner characteristics: 1. Employee class code “AD” on PEAEMPL form; 2. Status code “Full Time” on PEAEMPL form; 3. Budget profile “EDUGEN” on NBAPBUD form. Temporary Academic Positions: For use in this guideline, Temporary Academic Positions include, but are not limited to, graduate assistants, temporary instructors, visiting scholars, and soft money positions having budget profile “GRANTS” on NBAPBUD form. LEADERSHIP PLAN FOR MPI PROJECTS General: Projects with Multiple Principal Investigators must have a Leadership Plan approved by the Office of Sponsored Programs that delineates the roles of the investigators. Leadership Plans should describe the governance and organizational structure of the research project including the communication plan and processes for making decisions on scientific direction, allocating resources, determining authorship of publications, sharing intellectual property, and resolving conflicts. Reporting: Leadership plans should designate the investigator responsible for reporting. If reporting requirements are not met, the NIH will stop making awards to all investigators on the project. Special Reviews: Leadership plans should specify the investigator responsible for human subjects, animal studies, or other special reviews as appropriate. Fiscal Accountability: Leadership plans must specifically identify investigators who will have authority to expend funds. An investigator not employed by UofM (e.g. students or Adjunct Faculty) may not have spending authority; however, a non-UofM employee may have spending authority through subcontract with the investigator’s employer. If more than one investigator will have spending authority, the Leadership Plan must allocate budget to each investigator. Prior to approving the Leadership Plan, the Office of Sponsored Programs must determine that the plan for fiscal accountability can be implemented in Banner. When awarded, investigators will have their share of the budget entered under their individual Banner organization codes. During the project period, funds may be re-allocated among investigators as described in the Leadership Plan. If budget re-allocation is not addressed in the Leadership Plan, then the decision to re-allocate budget must be unanimous among the investigators. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 6/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.