COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Human Resource Management, Major MajorHuman Resource Management All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in human resource management from Wichita State’s Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas’ largest city. You’ll be eligible to compete for some of the state’s largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how human resource management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program State-of-the-art building planned for business school Plans to build a new, state-of-the-art building for the Barton School of Business got a boost with a $10 million donation. Once built, the 136,000-square-foot complex will replace Clinton Hall, constructed in 1970. It will be designed to foster collaboration among students, faculty and partners in the business community, as well as provide students with more internship opportunities. Curriculum The human resource management curriculum prepares you to perform functions such as hiring and training employees, performance appraisal and compensation—and for Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) certification. You’ll also gain a solid business skill set by completing core business courses. WSU is the only Kanas Regents university to offer a human resource management degree. View the curriculum Careers A degree in human resource management from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and skills needed for a variety of high-paying human-resource careers in settings such as: Local, national and international companies Professional, scientific and technical services Manufacturing and government Health care and social assistance Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Human Resource Management (Minor) Psychology Psychology (Minor) Management 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©