Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Child and Adolescent Health Child and Adolescent Health Expertise in the health of this vulnerable population ranges from nutrition to mental health to sexuality to understanding how socioeconomic factors inform access to good health. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0S3rmvd7GDU?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Child and Adolescent Health Andrew Rundle Professor Epidemiology Anne Paxton Associate Professor Epidemiology & Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Alwyn Cohall Professor Sociomedical Sciences, Population and Family Health, and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Bruce Armstrong Special Lecturer Population and Family Health Batya Elul Associate Professor Epidemiology at Columbia University Medical Center Burton Edelstein Professor Emeritus Dental Medicine (Pediatric Dentistry) and Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Medical Center Cassie Landers Assistant Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Carol Caton Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Psychiatry) at the Columbia University Medical Center Carolyn Westhoff Sarah Billinghurst Solomon Professor of Reproductive Health Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Denise Kandel Professor Sociomedical Sciences (in Psychiatry) Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences David Bell Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Frederica Perera Professor Environmental Health Sciences Helena Duch Adjunct Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Jeffrey Fagan Professor Epidemiology Jasmine McDonald Assistant Professor Epidemiology Joseph Graziano Emeritus Professor Environmental Health Sciences and Pharmacology Julie Herbstman Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Joyce Pressley Associate Professor Epidemiology and Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Medical Center John Santelli Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics Katherine Keyes Professor Epidemiology Lauren Houghton Assistant Professor Epidemiology Louise Kuhn Professor Epidemiology (in the Sergievsky Center) Leslie Davidson Professor Epidemiology and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Melanie Gold Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Manuela Orjuela-Grimm Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Pediatrics (in the HICCC) at the Columbia University Medical Center Mady Hornig Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Myrna Weissman Diane Goldman Kemper Family Professor Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Matthew Perzanowski Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Marni Sommer Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Madelyn Gould Professor Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) at the Columbia University Medical Center Melissa Stockwell Associate Professor Pediatrics and Population and Family Health Mary Beth Terry Professor Epidemiology (In Environmental Health Sciences) Nischay Mishra Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In the Center for Infection and Immunity) at the Columbia University Medical Center Renee Goodwin Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Renata Schiavo Senior Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences Rachel Moresky Associate Professor Heilbrunn Population and Family Health Shakira Suglia Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Susan Michaels-Strasser Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Silvia Martins Professor Epidemiology Virginia Rauh Professor Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health Wendy Chavkin Special Lecturer/ Professor Emerita Population and Family Health and Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology Xinhua Liu Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center George Musa Assistant Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Chloe Teasdale Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology Morgan Philbin Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Andrea Baccarelli Leon Hess Professor Environmental Health Sciences Latanya Mapp Frett Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Andrea Low Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Matthew Lamb Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center S. Patrick Kachur Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Jeanette Stingone Assistant Professor Epidemiology Rupak Shivakoti Assistant Professor Epidemiology Larkin McReynolds Assistant Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (In Psychiatry) Janna Metzler Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Jeremy Kane Assistant Professor Epidemiology Kiros Berhane Cynthia and Robert Citron-Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Professor Biostatistics Maya Deyssenroth Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Ka Kahe Tilden-Weger-Bieler Professor Obstetrics & Gynecology and Epidemiology Kelli Hall Associate Professor Population and Family Health Stephanie Grilo Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Mary Clare Lennon Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences News & Features Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All Adolescents Cannabis vaping is increasing as the most popular method of cannabis delivery among all adolescents in the U.S., as is the frequency of cannabis vaping, according to research at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. The study found that the frequency of vaping cannabis among a Study Examines Resilience of Immigrant Youth in Various Living Arrangements A new study is the first to examine the resilience and emotional well-being of adolescent migrants from Latin America who came to the U.S. as unaccompanied minors, with special attention to the impact of household composition. The majority of youth interviewed for the study were resilient wi Community and Puberty Hurriedly stuffing a pad into your sleeve while you make a break for the bathroom at work or school. Saying “it's just a stomachache” instead of admitting to the cramps you’re feeling. Discreetly checking the back of your pants in a storefront window. These are all experiences that most girl See All Just Published Asghar, K., Mayevskaya, Y., Sommer, M., Razzaque, A., Laird, B., Khan, Y., Qureshi, S., Falb, K., & Stark, L. (2018). Promoting Adolescent Girls' Well-Being in Pakistan: a Mixed-Methods Study of Change Over Time, Feasibility, and Acceptability, of the COMPASS Program. Prev Sci. View abstract. Sommer, M., Muñoz-Laboy, M., Williams, A., Mayevskaya, Y., Falb, K., Abdella, G., & Stark, L. (2018). How Gender Norms are Reinforced Through Violence Against Adolescent Girls in Two Conflicted-Affected Populations. Child Abuse & Neglect. View abstract. Blake, S., Boone, M., Yenew Kassa, A. & Sommer, M. (2017). Teaching Girls About Puberty and Menstrual Hygiene Management in Rural Ethiopia. Journal of Adolescent Research. View abstract. Ipapo, K.N., Factor-Litvak, P., Whyatt, R.M. … & Herbstman, J.B. (2017). Maternal Prenatal Urinary Phthalate Metabolite Concentrations and Visual Recognition Memory Among Infants at 27 Weeks. Environmental Research. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Harlem Health Promotion Center A collaboration of community and academic stakeholders to improve the health and well-being of the Harlem community. ICAP at Columbia ICAP has worked since 2004 with one central goal: to improve the health of families and communities. Columbia Center for Children's Environmental Health The Center strives to create a world in which every child has a healthy start. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. Center for Infection and Immunity One of the world’s largest and most advanced academic centers focused on microbial surveillance, discovery and diagnosis Advancing Research on Community Health Systems ARCHeS aims to bridge the gap between disease and system through implementation and delivery science. GATE Gender, Adolescent Transitions, and Environment Imprints Center Genetic and Environmental Lifecourse Studies Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers