Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health About Rutgers Rutgers Excellence Rutgers Is What Excellence Looks Like Standing among the nation's leading research universities, Rutgers is acclaimed for the excellent achievements of our people and for their contributions to society in the pursuit of education, research, and health care. Building the Future, One City at a Time Our WINLAB is taking tomorrow’s tech out of the lab and into the streets of New York City Building on their extensive research with wireless testbeds, radio technology, and mobile internet architecture, the Rutgers team at the Wireless Information Network Laboratory (WINLAB) is helping to implement COSMOS, a real-world outdoor lab putting next-generation wireless technology to work. A major partnership between Rutgers, Columbia, NYU, CCNY, and other innovation leaders, with funding from the National Science Foundation, COSMOS will be deployed across a square mile in Manhattan’s vibrant, densely populated West Harlem neighborhood. These urban wireless networks of the future will support data-intensive applications for a smarter, safer world, including: Smart intersections that can safely process vital information in real time Cloud-based autonomous vehicles for reliable driverless transportation Remote surgery enabling doctors to operate on patients across great distances Augmented and virtual reality to enhance interactivity and provide new experiences Learn More about WINLAB Giving Students Access to Excellent Education Rutgers makes a world-class education accessible and affordable. All eligible New Jersey students can attend Rutgers tuition-free for four years through a combination of university, federal and state financial aid programs. Our R-UN to the Top, Bridging the Gap, and Scarlet Guarantee programs build on existing state and federal aid programs to enable in-state students with family incomes below $65,000 to attend the university tuition-free and to reduce tuition and fees for students with family incomes below $100,000. $90M+ in federal Pell Grants to more than 17,700 Rutgers students, 2020–2021 9,000 students received nearly $30 million in financial aid and emergency assistance through Scarlet Promise Grants 75% of Rutgers students receive financial aid 34% of 1st-year students are first-generation undergraduates How Rutgers creates access to education Learn more about Scarlet Promise Grants Rutgers Named a Top Employer by Forbes Providing jobs to more than 23,000 faculty and staff, Rutgers ranks in the top 100 on Forbes list of the 500 best large employers in America. Rutgers is among only a handful of universities on the list and is ranked third among all New Jersey organizations. Providing a respectful workplace and a commitment to veterans and valuing diversity and inclusion are just some of the many reasons why Rutgers is a great place to work. Pictured: David Dreyfus, Assistant Professor Supply Chain Management, Rutgers Business School; Yalidy Matos, Assistant Professor Department of Political Science; and Dione Sandiford, School of Nursing Facilitator on the steps to Old Queens on the College Avenue campus. Learn More about Working at Rutgers Creating Upward Social Mobility through Pell Grants Rutgers–New Brunswick #1 in the Big Ten U.S. News & World Report Rutgers–Newark #3 in the nation U.S. News & World Report Rutgers–Camden #18 in the nation U.S. News & World Report Rutgers Leaders Lead a Great State Three Rutgers leaders were honored in this year's NJBIZ Power 100. Jonathan Holloway Rutgers President and University Professor A national higher education leader and scholar of American history and African American studies, Holloway’s priorities for the success of Rutgers and New Jersey are to provide a world-class education, advance health care, and conduct research that improves lives and propels economic growth. Brian Strom Chancellor, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Strom’s expertise as a nationally recognized epidemiologist provided insight into the disease and helped lead Rutgers and the state through the uncertainty of the health crisis. Perry Halkitis Dean and Professor of Biostatistics and Urban-Global Public Health, Rutgers School of Public Health Halkitis is a public health expert whose work often explores the relationship between infectious disease and mental health in vulnerable populations in New Jersey and the nation. Congratulations to Our Newest AAAS Fellows Twelve Rutgers professors have been named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), an honor awarded by their association peers. AAAS fellows pursue scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science or its applications. Read more about these distinguished faculty Emanuel M. DiCicco-Bloom Professor of Neuroscience and Cell Biology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Distinguished contributions to understanding growth factor regulation of neurogenesis during mammalian brain development, focusing on human neurodevelopmental disorders Ying Fan Reinfelder Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences, School of Arts and Sciences Advancing understanding of continental scale hydrology, particularly groundwater and near-surface systems interactions, including vegetation and surface water William C. Gause Director, Center for Immunity and Inflammation; Senior Associate Dean for Research, New Jersey Medical School Advancing understanding of molecular and translational immunology, especially the initiation and function of type 2 immunity during infectious disease Alan S. Goldman Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, School of Arts and Sciences Distinguished contributions to catalysis by transition-metal complexes, particularly elucidation of reaction mechanisms and development of catalysts for hydrocarbon functionalization Max M. Häggblom Chair and Distinguished Professor of Biochemistry and Microbiology, School of Environmental and Biological Sciences Advancing understanding of fundamental and application components of microbial biotransformations of pollutants Julie L. Lockwood Chair and Professor of Ecology, Evolution, and Natural Resources, School of Environmental and Biological Sciences Furthering knowledge of ecology and conservation biology, particularly biological invasions and causes of biotic homogenization Cecile Arlene Feldman Dean and Professor, Rutgers School of Dental Medicine Outstanding contributions to dentistry and distinguished leadership and advocacy in addressing contemporary issues facing dental education, research, and delivery of oral health care Patricia Fitzgerald-Bocarsly Provost, Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences–Newark; Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, New Jersey Medical School Distinguished science leadership and contributions to the field of biology, especially innate immune responses to human viral infections Margaret Marsh University Professor of History, Rutgers University–Camden and Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and Aging Research · Distinguished contributions to the social sciences, particularly the history of medicine, academic leadership, and communicating and interpreting science to the public Tara C. Matise Chair and Professor of Genetics, School of Arts and Sciences Distinguished contributions to developing human genetic maps and for critical efforts to bring genetics to diverse human populations Andrew Singson Professor of Genetics, School of Arts and Sciences and Waksman Institute of Microbiology Innovations in the field of fertilization, particularly discovery and characterization of genes required for fertilization in Caenorhabditis elegans Renping Zhou William and Myrle Garbe Chair in Cancer and Leukemia Research, Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy Advancing knowledge of molecular signaling in organizing biological structures and function, particularly protein interactions regulating growth of neuronal processes R&D with an Impact Committed to research and development driven by a relentless pursuit of excellence, Rutgers exceeds all NJ colleges and universities combined in R&D expenditures. $720M Research and development expenditures Top 100 World’s most innovative universities Reuters 1,000+ Companies partner with Rutgers researchers $907.9M Research grants and sponsored programs Committed to Research Excellence 1,187 Active technologies to license and market 154 Invention disclosures, FY21 180 Research awards > $1 million, FY21 1,553 Number of researchers receiving awards in FY21 Visit the Office for Research Researching America’s Gun Violence Epidemic Rutgers leads one of the nation’s first state-funded centers researching gun violence, a complex issue deeply rooted in American culture. Rutgers’ New Jersey Gun Violence Research Center translates its research into actionable policies and programs to reduce gun violence, while respecting the right to legal, safe gun ownership and use. More Information A Leader in Health Care Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences conducts research, trains health professionals, and provides patient care through our Rutgers Health practice, New Jersey's sole academic health care provider organization. 2.1+ Million Annual patient visits to Rutgers Health practices 470+ Clinical trials in process 1,300+ Clinical providers working to advance top-quality health care Rutgers United in Fighting COVID-19 Meet Our Health Champions Rutgers has brought together some of the finest minds in health care to confront humanity’s most urgent challenges. These researchers are leading discoveries across the spectrum of human health, from genomic psychiatry to infertility and so much more, with results that will save lives. Samantha Bell, Ph.D. Tuberculosis In order to develop more effective therapies for tuberculosis, Samantha Bell is studying the bacterium that causes the deadly disease and how the immune system detects this pathogen. Her research seeks to unravel the mysteries of the pathogen/immune system interplay--colloquially referred to as “the arms race”--and how bacterial and human factors dictate disease outcomes. The resources available at Rutgers have proven invaluable; notably collaborations with leading experts in the field, a diverse and enthusiastic community of colleagues from around the world; in addition to cutting-edge lab facilities. Rutgers has also proven uniquely supportive, especially to early career faculty. More about the Bell Lab Martin Blaser, M.D. Human Microbiome Martin Blaser chose Rutgers as the ideal destination where he could take his acclaimed research to new heights. His work over the past 30 years has led to a new understanding of the beneficial relationships between humans and their microbiome–the microbes that live on and in our bodies–impacting health and diseases including asthma, obesity, diabetes, and cancer. Author of Missing Microbes, a general audience book translated into 20 languages, he’s written over 600 articles and holds 28 U.S. patents. The recipient of the Robert Koch Gold Medal and the Alexander Fleming Award for his accomplishments, Blaser is also advisor to students, post-doctoral fellows, and junior faculty. He currently serves as Chair of the Presidential Advisory Council for Combating Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria and is a member of the National Academy of Medicine and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. More about the Microbiome Program Nataki Douglas, M.D., Ph.D. Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Board Certified Reproductive Endocrinologist Nataki Douglas combines patient care with translational research to raise the clinical bar for her patients. Her research is focused on the role of the endometrium (uterine lining) as a determinant of embryo implantation and normal formation of the placenta, both of which are needed for a successful pregnancy. This work addresses important unanswered questions in the field of gynecology and will deepen our understanding of endometrial regeneration. Douglas chose Rutgers for the opportunity to provide clinical care to a diverse population and for the many exciting opportunities for scientific collaboration and professional growth, with leadership committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion for all faculty, staff, and students. Learn about research at NJMS Pingping Hou, Ph.D. Cell Therapy for Pancreatic Cancer Hou’s research focuses on the oncogene KRAS and the development of cell therapy in pancreatic cancer, addressing low five-year survival rates of patients with advanced stages of the disease. Hou was drawn to Rutgers’ strong biomedical research programs, NIH-designated comprehensive cancer center, and core facilities that can further cancer research, in addition to dedicated programs to help junior faculties with their career development. She welcomes the chance to contribute to what she has found to be an open, equal, inclusive, diverse, and collaborative academic environment. More about the Hou Lab Rey Panettieri, M.D. Translational Science and Medicine Reynold Panettieri and his team are pioneering new ways to improve the care of asthma and COPD patients, using new drugs to open the narrowed airways of the lung. As a physician scientist, he’s particularly excited to put their new discoveries into practice, and is working toward a future when patients can be cured before they even become ill. He sees Rutgers’ potential to grow meteorically, uniquely empowered to improve health state-wide, employing state-of-the-art scientific approaches and leveraging incomparable expertise across all the biomedical schools. Learn about The Rutgers Institute for Translational Medicine and Science Carlos Pato, M.D., Ph.D. Genomic Psychiatry Carlos Pato is studying how genetics affects serious mental illness, working with large, diverse populations to define the genetic profiles that cause risk and those that are protective against these devastating disorders. Access to the latest technologies has greatly advanced Pato’s research and is enabling him to make a real difference in people’s lives, developing appropriate treatments that in turn lead to better health outcomes. Rutgers helps make this possible through continued investment in discovery and education, as well as an unwavering commitment to the care of hundreds of thousands of patients in New Jersey. More about Dr. Pato A Global Leader in COVID-19 Research First saliva diagnostic test for COVID-19 Verified effectiveness of first rapid point-of-care diagnostic test Developing breathalyzer test for fast COVID-19 results Clinical trial site for Pfizer vaccine in children under 12 Clinical trial site for Johnson & Johnson vaccine Clinical trial site for Moderna vaccine One of the nation’s largest studies of workers exposed to COVID-19, used for clinical trials $5 million NIH grant to expand COVID-19 testing for New Jersey’s underserved And our work continues. At the Center for COVID-19 Response and Pandemic Preparedness, our scientists are accelerating the discovery of new diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines for coronavirus and preparing now to respond to future epidemics. Rutgers' Latest Innovation in the Fight against COVID-19 Rapid Diagnostic Test for Virus Variants What’s different about the Rutgers COVID-19 variant test? It cuts from days to hours the time it takes to obtain results. Rutgers shared this latest innovation on an open-source basis to serve the greater good, enabling swift, responsive test modifications as new variants emerge, with more than 1,000 downloads to date. The new rapid test is easy to set up and can be adapted for labs that use varying types of equipment and methods. The open-source test is free to use as described or modify as needed. “This rapid test was developed and tested over a few weeks in a crash program to respond to a serious public health need,” said David Alland, director of the Rutgers New Jersey Medical School (NJMS) Public Health Research Institute and professor and chief of infectious disease at NJMS. “Despite our hurry to get the test completed, it performed extremely well. We hope that this test will help in the control of the rapidly evolving COVID-19 pandemic.” Pictured: David Alland Read More Finding Solutions to End the Pandemic Rutgers is making game-changing contributions in the fight against COVID-19. Phase 3 Clinical trial site for leading COVID-19 vaccines 1st Saliva diagnostic test for COVID-19 was developed at Rutgers $5 Million NIH grant to expand COVID-19 testing for New Jersey’s underserved Read More about Rutgers COVID Innovations Jonathan Scott Holloway Inaugurated as Rutgers' 21st President President Holloway formally commenced his duties on July 1, 2020, and was inaugurated on November 5, 2021. Forward-looking, inclusive, charismatic, and decisive, he has ably steered Rutgers through the uncharted waters of a pandemic, all the while maintaining focus on continuously improving our standing as a preeminent research institution, attracting and retaining the finest scholars, and providing world-class education, health care, and public service. His distinguished scholarship in post-emancipation American history and African American studies, his remarkable integrity, and his outstanding record as a higher education administrator inform President Holloway’s institutional priorities and his transformational vision for the future of Rutgers. President Holloway’s dedication to excellence in all aspects of university life, and his belief in the university as a beloved community, already have raised us up and given us more than good reason to believe that the best by far is yet to come. More about President Holloway President Holloway announces student service initiative Watch highlights from the inauguration celebration Points of Pride A Historic University Chartered in 1766, Rutgers is the eighth-oldest college in the nation. Our charter was granted by King George III of England and signed by William Franklin, the last Royal Governor of New Jersey and son of Benjamin Franklin. A Reputation for Learning Excellence Rutgers perennially appears in the most respected annual listings of the world's top universities. And we are the only university in the United States that is a colonial college, a land-grant institution, and a leading national public research university. A Renowned Faculty Rutgers faculty include members of the National Academies and winners of the National Medals of Science and Technology; Pulitzer Prizes; Guggenheim, MacArthur “Genius,” and Simons Fellowships; Fulbright Scholarships; and NSF CAREER Awards. Devoted to Serving New Jersey Rutgers is proud to be The State University of New Jersey, the Garden State's premier, comprehensive public research university, with educational and outreach programs that reach residents in all 21 New Jersey counties. A Leader in Academic Health Care Rutgers and its partners form one of the nation's largest academic health care systems, and the largest in New Jersey. An Exceptional Education at an Affordable Price Our students receive an outstanding education that prepares them for a future of leadership and success and is also a great value. Forbes magazine ranks Rutgers as #29 in the nation as "Best Value Colleges." Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster