Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Pre-Law Advising WELCOME TO PRE-LAW ADVISING Welcome to Brown's Pre-Law Advising! Brown offers a wealth of guidance and support to students and alumni interested in the study and practice of law. One-on-one advising is available with our team of 2 academic deans and a faculty member. We support and organize events and programs about the application process, legal education, and law careers. Our office is located on the second floor of University Hall (1 Prospect Street). We ordinarily also hold open hours in the Watson Institute. Our appointment availability is listed under Contacts. Explore our website, use our reference library and conect with us by appointment. We look forward to speaking with you about your interests in law school and the profession. Brown students and alumni can complete our Pre-Law Advising Registration Form to be added to our listserv for periodic messages about events, programs, and other relevant information. Website Roadmap If you are new to the idea of pursuing education and careers in law the Fields of Law, Law Education and Degrees, and Resources sections of this website would be a great place to start. As you look for students with similar interests, you can connect with the vibrant community of student-led organizations at Brown, including Student Groups focused on law and advocacy. At any stage of your studies and exploration of the pre-law path, we encourage you to engage with your peers at Brown, tune in to or attend the many Events and Programs we coordinate, and Connect with an Advisor. If you are gearing up for the application process, the Preparing for Law School, When to Apply, Resources, Admission Statistics, FAQ and Covid-19 FAQ pages cover the application process, plentiful details about all of its components, and the dynamics of the pandemic year. During the early summer before matriculating to law school many admission offices ask applicants to have a Dean Certification completed. COVID-19 FAQ Home Contacts Dean Certifications Fields of Law Law Education and Degrees Preparing for Law School When to Apply Resources FAQ Events and Programs Admission Statistics Student Groups Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1996 Pre-Law Advising One Prospect Street, University Hall - Second Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401) 863-2781 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown Resources DOC CareerLAB Swearer Center Writing Center JIB Fellowships BRUnet Outside Resources LSAC DiscoverLaw.org LSAC Schools List LSAT Guide Financing Law School