Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University University Library Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Index Hours My Library Card Give Research & Collections Find Books & Media (Quick Search) Article Indexes & Databases e-Books e-Journals - A-Z list Specific Article by Citation or DOI Course Reserves Movies and TV Streaming Video Collections WorldCat (Open Access) Catalogs of Other Libraries Iowa State Collections DataShare: ISU's Data Repository Digital Collections Digital Initiatives Digital Press Digital Repository @ Iowa State University Special Collections and University Archives Research Help Research and Course Guides Quick Search Tips Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Material Find Audiovisual Materials Find Books Find Census Data Find Government Documents Find Images Find Legal Research Find Magazines, Journals Find Manuscripts and Archives Find Maps Find Microforms Find Newspapers and News Find Standards Cite Sources Cite Sources Overview Endnote Ask Us! Find Your Librarian Collections Areas Leisure Collection Media Center Periodical Room Reference Materials Call Numbers in Parks Library Library Storage Building Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Overview About the Design Reading Room Course Reserves - Design Reading Room Design Reading Room Staff Veterinary Medicine Library Restricted Building Access About the Vet Med Library Veterinary Medicine Library Staff Borrowing Main Desk Check Out and Return Request Books and More Pick From Shelf Service Recall or Hold an Item Renew an Item Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery (ILL/DD) ILL/DD Overview ILL/DD Account Login Interlibrary Loan FAQ Libraries Requesting ISU Materials Unaffiliated User Terms and Conditions Missing Items Loan Periods Fines (overdue/lost items) Book a Media Item for Classroom Use Who May Borrow? Your Library Card Help & Services Accessibility Services Accessibility Services Overview Services & Equipment Available Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Accessibility Services at Branch Libraries For You Services for Students Faculty & Instructors Distance Learners International Nest Alumni & Visitors Assistance Lost & Found Find Your Librarian Ask a Librarian How Do I ... Library FAQ Access E-Resources Access My Library Card Get Something That's Not Available Find Articles Find Dissertations and Theses Find Other Types of Materials Cite Sources Quick Search Tips Teaching & Class Support Library Instruction Overview Library 160 Course-related Instruction Course Reserves Research and Course Guides Workshops Copyright Information Open Scholarship Services Binding theses Solution Center Systems Status Spaces & Computers Study Rooms Group Study Rooms Research Study Rooms Quiet Areas Reserve a Library Space Parks Library spaces Floor & Tier Maps Accessible and Sensory Friendly Spaces Learning Connections Center Bookends Café International Nest Mindfulness Room Where to find ... Room Number Listings Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections Diaper changing stations and lactation room Restrooms Library Classroom Use Computers & Technology Assistive Technology Computers and Computer Labs Interactive Displays for Group Work Laptop & Equipment Checkout Group Equipment Loans Outlets and Wireless Printing, Copying, Scanning Other Equipment Parks Libro NVivo Software Access Design Reading Room Veterinary Medicine Library Ask Us! Physical Access to Parks Library Building and Collections For assistance with physical access needs, please call the Space and Stacks Management Unit at 515 294-0444 or inquire at the Main Desk, located straight ahead as you enter the Library's main entrance. See also our new Accessible and Sensory Friendly Locations web page for photos and maps for some items listed below. Entering Parks Library Parking available on west side of building (requires permit) Access ramps are located at the Library's main entrance Automatic, electronic eye-activated entry/exit at the Library's main entrance Note: Your survey comments helped us know about a threshhold lippage problem at our front entrance! This has been fixed and will receive additional work over Summer 2022. Thank you! Elevators Main elevators are located in the Main Lobby, along the west wall of the Lobby. These elevators lead to the five floors (Lower Level, and Floors 1 through 4) of the newer part of the Library. The elevator for access to the Tiers is located in the Learning Connections Center (First floor, along northeast wall near classroom 134). This elevator leads to the seven tiers (floors) in the older part of the Library, and also to the five floors of the newer part of the Library. Be aware this elevator is smaller. All elevators are labeled with Braille. Restrooms ADA-compliant Gender-inclusive single-user restrooms: Parks Library has five ADA-compliant, gender-inclusive, single-user restrooms on the Lower Level, and Floors 1 (street level), 2, 3, and 4. These restrooms are located immediately north of the central staircase on each of these floors, which means they are very conveniently located. If you have a service animal, use a wheelchair, scooter, walker, need assistance from an aide, or just need or want more space, you'll find there is plenty of room to navigate in these spacious and comfortable restrooms. ADA-compliant Women's restrooms: In addition, Parks Library has five ADA-compliant Women's multiple-user restrooms on the Lower Level, and Floors 1, 2, 3, and 4. These are located immediately north of the ADA-compliant singler user restrooms. Each of these Women's restrooms includes a larger stall for accommodation purposes, with plenty of room to accommodate wheelchairs, scooters, walkers, an assistant or family member, or service animal. ADA-compliant Men's Restrooms: Parks Library has five ADA-compliant Men's multiple-user restrooms on the Lower Level, and Floors 1, 2, 3, and 4. These are located north of the gender-inclusive ADA-compliant singler user restrooms and the Women's restrooms. Each of these Men's restrooms includes a larger stall for accommodation purposes, with plenty of room to accommodate wheelchairs, scooters, walkers, an assistant or family member, or service animal. No restrooms are located in the Tiers or the older parts of the Library building; these older areas are on the extreme east side of the Library building. Elevator access to restrooms: From the main elevators (located near the southwest corner of the Lower Level and Floors 1, 2, 3, and 4), you will find the ADA-compliant single-user and Women's multiple-user ADA-compliant restrooms located along the east wall and immediately north of the central staircase. Older accessible restrooms on Floors 2, 3, and 4 are all located within close proximity of the Library's main elevators located along the west wall. Note that restrooms on Floor 1 are the busiest in the Library and tend to be very crowded repeatedly throughout the day, particularly during Fall and Spring semesters. ADA-compliant and accessible restrooms on the Lower Level and Floors 2, 3, and 4 may be better choices for this reason. Water Fountains & Bottle Filling Stations Accessible drinking fountains and bottle filling stations are located on Floors 1, 2, 3, and 4 within close proximity of the Library's main elevators located along the west wall. Wheelchair Accommodations Restrooms accommodating wheelchairs are located on all floors including Lower Level Wheelchair available at Main Desk Free campus-use phone at wheelchair height located on Lower Level near the elevators, approaching central staircase Library workstations at wheelchair height The Lobby includes almost 50 height-adjustable tables with workstations; each workstation has adjustable monitors. The right front corner of each table has a tab to toggle forward or backward to lower and raise the table to a height comfortable for you. These tables are located in the central Lobby area and along the south windows, west of the library entrance doors. Floor 1: Classroom 134, two height-adjustable tables, each one supporting two Dell workstations.Table height is adjustable by using the crank lever located underneath the right corner of each table. When you enter Classroom 134, these tables are on either side of the central aisle, and they are the first computer tables you encounter when you enter the room. Floor 3: Electronic height-adjustable tables, along South windows (bring your own laptop, or check one out from Tech Lending). Be sure to check that the table is plugged in to the outlet; some users may unplug the tables in order to plug in their own devices. Tech Lending is located at 117 Parks Library, located in the Collaboration Corridor slightly to your left as you enter Parks Library. Evacuation Procedures If you are unable to evacuate the Library via the stairs or are with someone who is unable to use the stairs, go to the nearest enclosed stairwell. Tell anyone where you are and give them the stairwell and floor location on which you are located. If you were given information about a location of a person who is unable to use the stairs, immediately report this information to library staff at the command center near the east door of Atanasoff. Library staff then will notify emergency personnel (DPS, Fire, and/or Medical) of the location and arrange for the person's departure from the building. University Library University Library 701 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011-2102 Ask Us! 515 294-3642 phone Email Webmaster Facebook Twitter Follow us FDLP Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information