Penn Calendar Penn A-Z School of Arts and Sciences University of Pennsylvania The Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy Search form SearchSearch The Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy Home People Professors of Practice Fellows Graduate Fellows Undergraduates About Contact Us Podcast Social Change and the Global Middle East Past Annual Themes Planning Committees 2020-21 Archives 2019-20 Archives 2018-19 Archives Planning Committee 2017-18 Archives 2016-17 Archives 2015-16 Archives 2014-15 Archives 2013-14 Archives 2012-13 Archives 2011-12 Archives 2010-11 Archives 2009-10 Archives 2008-09 Archives 2007-08 Archives Graduate Workshop Penn Political Union Politics on the Edge Capitalism / Socialism / Democracy Conversations Race and Politics Published Books Fellowships 2022-23 Undergraduate Research Conference The Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy The Andrea Mitchell Center was created in 2017, through the generous support of Andrea Mitchell, currently NBC News Chief Foreign Affairs Correspondent as well as the Chair of Penn’s Board of Overseers for the School of Arts and Sciences. She received a B.A. in English from Penn’s College of Liberal Arts for Women in 1967. 2021-22 Series: Social Change and the Global Middle East In its 2021-2022 theme year, The Andrea Mitchell Center in partnership with the Middle East Center examines the region through multiple lenses and perspectives in order to shed new light on a part of the world that remains as relevant, and as complicated, as ever. 2020-21 Series - Free Speech Battles In its 2020-2021 theme year, The Andrea Mitchell Center examines both the contentious history of free expression and the ongoing developments that have made it once again a central issue in democratic societies. 2019-20 Series - Reverberations of Inequality There are signs that inequality harms health, diminishes political engagement, and ripples across social life throughout the world. During its 2019-2020 theme year, the Andrea Mitchell Center will invite a range of speakers to delve into a growing body of scholarship suggesting that inequality is not simply a matter of skewed wealth. ‹ › Welcome The Andrea Mitchell Center for the Study of Democracy aims not just to promote, but to understand, democracy. Global in its outlook, multifaceted in its purposes, the Mitchell Center seeks to contribute to the ongoing quest for democratic values, ideas, and institutions throughout the world. In addition to hosting speakers from the fields of academia, journalism, politics, and public policy, the Mitchell Center supports undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral research. It continues the legacy of the Penn Program for Democracy, Citizenship, and Constitutionalism, which fostered interdisciplinary scholarship from 2007 to 2017. Home News NEW Podcast: Sean Guillory on How the West Imagines Russia May 27, 2022 Listen here. Mitchell Center Executive Committee Member Eric Orts Reflects on Climate, Democracy, and Russian Energy in Essay Published by The Hill May 2, 2022 Read the full essay here. John Bolton Presents His Views on Foreign Policy and Domestic Politics in Conversation with PPU President Lexi Boccuzzi Apr 22, 2022 NEW Podcast: Adolph Reed on the Jim Crow South Mar 18, 2022 Listen here. Mitchell Center Podcast Interview with Ilya Matveev Featured in Jacobin Magazine Mar 10, 2022 Read the interview here. more Recent Podcast Episodes Episode 3.13: Naming the Problem: Capitalism is the Crisis – Richard Wolff Series: CAPITALISM / SOCIALISM / DEMOCRACY. Interviewer: RAFAEL KHACHATURIAN. As our economy, political system, and society in general weather a number of immediate crises, from pandemics to inflation, economist RICHARD WOLFF argues that the real cause of our inability to grapple with them is being ignored. In his discussion with political theorist Rafael Khachaturian, Wolff contends that the power of capitalism as a governing ideology, and capitalists as a class, make it difficult to mobilize resources for anything other than profit maximization – especially as increasing levels of debt among all manner of borrowers hampers action. Episode 3.12: The Jim Crow South: Myths and Realities – Adolph Reed Series: CAPITALISM / SOCIALISM / DEMOCRACY. Interviewer: MATTHEW BERKMAN. Especially since the national reckoning with race following the death of George Floyd, there has been a focus, in both academic and popular discourse, on the continuity of anti-Black racism in U.S. history. Distinguished political scientist ADOLPH REED contests the idea, however, that racism as an immutable force exerting a uniform influence from the era of slavery to the present day, or even that American inequality is chiefly defined by race. His new book, The South: Jim Crow and Its Afterlives, situates the racial hierarchy of the Jim Crow South in the political economy of the period and in the struggles and negotiations of everyday experience. Episode 3.11: Beyond the Ruins of Neoliberalism – Wendy Brown Series: CAPITALISM / SOCIALISM / DEMOCRACY. Interviewer: RAFAEL KHACHATURIAN. Over the course of decades, Neoliberalism has shifted from being an overt ideological position, explicitly arguing for the primacy of the market as a way to organize society, into a set of embedded assumptions and practices that govern much of our economy and politics. Political theorist WENDY BROWN has charted this process and the destruction left in its wake, as commitment to the social has given way to individualistic strategies for coping with market forces. Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania