Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Brown University Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Search Brown University Home About History People Leadership BRDD Peer Advisors Student Demographics Visit Academics Advising BRDD Peer Advisors Five-Year Planning BRDD Canvas Page Current Student Degree Combinations Capstones New Courses 2021-2022 BRDD Calendar (PDF) Student Resources Five-Year Planning International Students BRDD Canvas Page 2021-2022 BRDD Academic Calendar Student Life Housing and Dining New Students Orientation Year 2 Orientation Admissions Tuition & Aid Apply FAQs Visit Alumni Alumni Newsletter News and Events Annual Exhibition Events and Programs Home About History People Student Demographics Visit Academics Student Resources Student Life Admissions Alumni News and Events Search Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program About The Brown|RISD Dual Degree Program draws on the complementary strengths of two world-class institutions and offers students the opportunity to pursue collaborative and multidisciplinary work. Students interested in combining film and video with screen or playwriting, photography with anthropology or urban studies, sculpture with music or performance, art and design with the sciences, theater with glass, and many other unique combinations. RISD and Brown offer different but complementary strengths: RISD offers intensive, specialized education in all categories of the arts and design; Brown offers comprehensive concentrations in the humanities, social sciences, physical, and life sciences. There are many possibilities – and some have yet to be explored! During the five year program, students develop and integrate diverse spheres of academic and artistic interests. Students will choose a concentration at Brown and a major at RISD and receive a Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) degree or, with careful planning, a Bachelor of Science (Sc.B.) from Brown and a Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) degree from RISD. Prospective students must apply and be accepted to both institutions and then be approved by a separate Brown|RISD Dual Degree admissions committee. A minimum of one year in residence at each school is expected of the students. 76 Current Students 110 Current Alumni 15 RISD Majors 84 Brown Concentrations 1,260 Possible 1:1 concentrations And at Brown you can propose an Independent Concentration, so this makes the number even greater! Breakdown of Courses Taken by Graduating Classes of 2013-2017 Average # of RISD Courses 28 Minimum # of RISD Courses 18 Maximum # of RISD Courses 36 Average # of Brown Courses 21 Minimum # of Brown Courses 15 Maximum # of Brown Courses 29 About History People Student Demographics Visit Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Brown | RISD Dual Degree Program Box 1828 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center, Suite 228 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9836 Fax: 401-863-1961 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top