COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of English Section Menu English Home Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate Courses MA in English Literature Admissions Graduate Student Resources MFA in Creative Writing Faculty Placement Exams Composition & Linguistics Creative Writing Contact Us Gordon Parks Fellowship Assistantships MA in English Literature Handbook Graduate Certificate in English Literature and Composition Pedagogy Undergraduate Summer Courses The English department at Wichita State University boasts a broad and flexible program of courses that are central to a liberal arts education. The department offers degree programs in creative writing, literature and English teaching, as well as a range of courses in linguistics. Composition & Linguistics Creative Writing English Literature COVID-19 UPDATE Click here to access the Writing Center. Continue to follow WSU's COVID-19 information page. If you need assistance preparing to continue your classes online, click here. Please take care of yourself and stay healty; click here for help from Student Health Services. Any other questions please contact your course instructor or Jean Griffith (Department Chair). Please take care. Enrichment and career enhancement English students enjoy many opportunities for personal enrichment and a variety of career possibilities. Students choosing to study additional disciplines find the knowledge and communication skills acquired in their English coursework to be a valuable asset as they seek entrance to a wide range of fields that includes communication, education, government, law and business. Why an English degree? Featured Links Placement Exams Writing Center Library Resources Writing Now, Reading Now Series Mikrokosmos and mojo Sigma Tau Delta Graduate Teaching Assistantships News & Events Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow our blog 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©