Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Evening MBA FAQs Home » Programs » MBA » Evening MBA » FAQs Menu Evening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs We have compiled a selection of the questions prospective students to the Evening MBA program ask most frequently. If you are unable to find the answer to a specific question or wish to speak with someone directly, contact us online or call us at 404.894.8722. Directions, Parking, and Accommodations How do I get to the Scheller College of Business? View detailed directions and parking. How do I get from the airport to the Scheller College? Many visitors take MARTA (light rail) from the airport. There are two MARTA stations (North Avenue and Midtown) within blocks of the College and there are a variety of hotels and restaurants in the immediate vicinity. There are many other options for traveling to and from Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport to Midtown Atlanta. Are there hotels near campus? Yes. There are many hotels to choose from near the College of Business and the Georgia Tech campus. Here are several options:(ask for Georgia Tech rates) Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center (across the street from Scheller College of Business) 800 Spring Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30308 Reservations: 404-347-9440; 800-706-2899 This full-service hotel located on the Georgia Tech campus, offers restaurant, bar and room service seven days a week as well as numerous restaurant options just steps away. The hotel also features free wireless internet, fitness center (including indoor pool) and FREE transportation on the Tech Trolley that stops right in front of the hotel. Remember to take your picture with the Ramblin' Wreck on display in the lobby! Ask for the Georgia Tech rate! Many of the hotels listed below also offer Georgia Tech rates. Be sure to ask! Georgian Terrace (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 659 Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30308 404-897-1991 Hilton Garden Inn/Homewood Suites (0.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 97 10th Street NW Atlanta, GA 30309 404-524-4006 Hotel Indigo Atlanta Midtown (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 683 Peachtree Street. NE Atlanta, GA 30308 404-874-9200 Regency Suites Hotel (.3 miles from the Scheller College of Business) 975 West Peachtree St. NW, Atlanta, GA 30309 800-642-3629 Renaissance Atlanta Hotel Downtown (.1 mile walk from Scheller College of Business) 866 West Peachtree Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 678-412-2400 Residence Inn Atlanta Midtown / Historic (.5 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1041 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30309 404-872-8885 Residence Inn Midtown/17th at Peachtree hotel (1.2 miles from Scheller College of Business) 1365 W Peachtree St NE Atlanta, GA 30309 404-745-1000 Tell me more about Tech Square. Learn more about Tech Square. Tell me more about Atlanta. Learn more about Atlanta. Program Information Is this a heavily quantitative program? The core curriculum of MBA programs tends to be quantitative in nature, which is why most MBA programs look for strong quantitative skills during the admissions process. The Georgia Tech MBA program is no exception. We look for students who can demonstrate quantitative aptitude through academic performance, test scores, and/or professional responsibilities. Students may customize electives to meet their unique interests and goals, which may or may not be quantitatively focused. How do students with non-technical backgrounds perform? Students from a wide range of academic and professional backgrounds excel in our program and go on to very successful careers in a variety of functional areas and industries. Core courses expose students to all functional areas of business, preparing them for elective coursework. Students choose from a variety of electives across multiple academic areas, or focus their learning by pursuing immersive tracks in leading innovation and/or concentrations. What's the typical student profile in the Evening MBA program? We have a wide variety of students with different academic and professional backgrounds. More than half of the students come from non-engineering backgrounds, and more than 60% do not have business degrees. View the Evening MBA student profile for more information. Will I be at a disadvantage in my MBA classes if I haven't taken any business courses previously? No. While the MBA core courses move at a fast pace, they do not assume knowledge from previous business coursework. Our curriculum is designed for you to build a solid foundation in all the functional areas of business. Core courses give you an opportunity to explore areas of business you don't have experience in, help you identify your strengths, and fully prepare you to get the most out of our electives, while providing knowledge you'll reference throughout your career. Do I have to declare a concentration? One official concentration is required by all MBA students. Students who are undecided about a focus area find that completing the core courses helps them to identify their passion(s). Is this the same program as the two-year, Full-time MBA program? Yes. Evening MBA students earn the same degree and enjoy the same benefits as our Full-time MBA students, including the same academically challenging curriculum, outstanding faculty, access to MBA Career Services, and social and networking opportunities. Major differences are: Students have the flexibility to complete their degree at their own pace. The Evening MBA program is not a lock-step/cohort-based program; you're not taking all your courses in a pre-set sequence with a specific group of classmates. You choose the number of courses to fit your schedule. Classes are available during the summer. On-campus recruiting is for permanent job searches and not summer internships. Evening MBA students are able to participate in on-campus recruiting for permanent positions. Since Evening MBA students are typically working professionals, we do not offer access to on-campus recruiting for summer internships. However, if you choose to pursue an internship, a career advisor is available to help with your self-guided search. Enrollment is in the spring and fall. The Evening MBA program enrolls twice per year, and begins in the spring (January) and fall (August). What will my transcript and diploma say? Evening MBA students receive the same degree as our Full-time MBA students. The diploma and transcript say "Master of Business Administration." Do I have to take courses in a predetermined sequence or can I schedule my classes on a flexible basis? You may take as few or as many courses each semester as your schedule permits; however, students are encouraged to take at least two classes, or six credit hours, per semester to complete the degree in two to three years. How long will it take me to complete the program and earn my MBA? This is up to you and depends on how many courses you choose to take each semester. Most students complete their degree in two or three years. You will have up to six years to complete the MBA degree. When and where are classes offered? Classes are offered Monday through Thursday evenings beginning at 6 p.m. Each Evening MBA class meets one night per week. All classes are located in the Scheller College of Business building on the Georgia Tech campus in Midtown Atlanta. Are Evening MBA students allowed to take classes during the day? All of the Evening MBA core courses must be taken in the evening. However, to give all MBA students the full range of elective offerings, Evening MBA students may take electives during the day if their work schedule permits. Can Evening MBA students automatically "switch" into the two-year Full-time MBA program? You can't automatically "switch" from the Evening MBA to the Full-time MBA. However, students who have completed 12 or fewer credit hours can apply for admission. Consideration is limited to students with 12 or fewer credit hours because the Full-time MBA is a lock-step/cohort-based program. Full-time MBAs take all core courses together and in a pre-set sequence. The Full-time MBA program begins only in the fall. Candidates will be considered with the current pool of applicants and must submit materials by the Full-time MBA application deadlines. Is the Georgia Tech Evening MBA ranked? Yes, the Georgia Tech Evening MBA program is ranked a top evening MBA program by U.S. News & World Report. The rankings are a good place to start your research on business schools. However, your final decision about where to enroll should have more to do with personal and professional "fit" than rankings. What are the benefits of the Georgia Tech Evening MBA program? The benefits of Georgia Tech's Evening MBA program are many, but some of the highlights include: Learning from the same comprehensive Full-time MBA curriculum without interrupting your career. Flexibility to choose the number of courses to fit your schedule and complete your degree at your own pace. Earning a degree recognized worldwide, and a top-ranked MBA from an internationally respected university. Access to an experienced career services team to help you develop and implement a strategy to promote or transition your career. Classes held on main campus, offering you numerous educational, professional, and social opportunities. How do I learn more? Current students know there is really no substitute for visiting the campus in-person. Once you have narrowed your list of potential MBA programs, it's important to schedule a campus visit, if possible. Each program has its own distinct personality. While it's important to select programs that will help you in achieving your career goals, the emotional part of your decision is also significant. Visit a class, talk with current students, faculty, and career service staff, and tour the business school. Request program information To request a brochure, complete the request more information form. Attend an on-campus Information Session MBA information sessions are held at the Scheller College of Business year-round. Attending is a great way to meet students, admissions staff, and faculty members while learning about the program. Class visit Schedule an Evening MBA class visit during fall, spring, and summer semesters. Choose from a variety of classes and experience the program firsthand. Off-campus events Georgia Tech participates in various national MBA fairs each fall and at local events throughout the year. Visit our upcoming events page to learn more. Contact an Evening MBA Ambassador You may also request to speak with an Evening MBA Ambassador about a particular area of study or other program questions. MBA Ambassadors are students currently enrolled in the Georgia Tech Evening MBA program. Contact us online or call the MBA Admissions Office at 404.894.8722 to schedule a meeting with an ambassador. Where is the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA Admissions Office located? The MBA Admissions Office is located on the third floor, in suite 302 of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Our complete address is: Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business 800 West Peachtree Street, NW Suite 302 Atlanta, GA 30308-1149 The Scheller College of Business is located within Technology Square, a multi-building complex of facilities located in Midtown Atlanta that includes the Global Learning Center, the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center, the Economic Development Institute, and the Georgia Tech Bookstore. View an interactive map of the Georgia Tech campus. Curriculum How many credit hours are required to earn an MBA at Georgia Tech? 54 credit hours are required to earn an MBA at Georgia Tech. Students will take 12 core courses (21 credit hours) and choose 11 electives (33 credit hours). Will I be at a disadvantage in my MBA classes if I haven't taken any business courses previously? Absolutely not! Approximately 60% of the students enrolled in the Evening MBA program hold undergraduate degrees in disciplines other than business. While the core courses move at a fast pace, they do not assume knowledge from previous business coursework. Our curriculum is designed for you to build a solid foundation in all the functional areas of business. Core courses give you an opportunity to explore new concepts, identify new strengths and skills, and prepare you to get the most out of our electives, while providing knowledge you'll reference throughout your career. My undergraduate degree is in Business Administration. Is it possible to waive any of the MBA coursework based on past academic coursework? No, all core courses are required and cannot be waived. For students who have taken undergraduate business courses, MBA core courses offer a refresher to business concepts that are necessary for success in elective courses. Also, while you may have completed business courses at the undergraduate level, the graduate versions of those courses are more rigorous and application-based. MBA courses are further enhanced by classmates who will share professional experiences, making class discussions more applicable and dynamic. Our compressed core course schedule is designed for you to build the most essential business skills fast, allowing you to take more electives to tailor the program for your career goals. Can I transfer courses into the Evening MBA program? No, the Georgia Tech MBA program does not accept transfer credit. Admissions How are applications to the Evening MBA program evaluated? Applications to the MBA program are evaluated on a rolling basis. Considered in the admission decision are undergraduate (and graduate, if applicable) academic performance, GMAT or GRE scores, TOEFL scores for many international applicants, work experience, essays, interview, letters of recommendation, leadership potential, career fit, and other documentation supporting the application. What makes an application stand out among others? There is no point system or secret formula. However, the College doesn't compromise on quality and looks for students who demonstrate work experience, leadership, maturity, community activity, intellectual capacity, and competitive academic credentials (GRE or GMAT score and GPA). Strengths in one area may compensate for weaknesses in another area. What is the admission profile for students enrolled in the Evening MBA Program? View our current class profile. Is work experience required to be accepted in the program? While not required, we strongly recommend at least two to three years of professional work experience. In addition to the contributions they make to the classroom, students with professional work experience find the MBA more enriching, professionally and personally. If you do not have professional work experience, discuss the contributions you can make to the program in your essay, based on internship experiences or leadership activities. I have not taken any undergraduate courses in business. Will that affect my chances of admission? No, this will not affect your admission and you will not be at a disadvantage in classes. More than 60% of our MBA students hold non-business undergraduate degrees. The admissions committee strives to admit students from a wide range of undergraduate and professional backgrounds. Are there any education prerequisites to the MBA program? Yes, a bachelor's degree. We welcome applicants with accredited bachelor's degrees from all academic backgrounds. Are applicants to the Evening MBA program required to interview? Yes. Applicants are required to interview; however, interviews are scheduled on an invitation-only basis. Once a preliminary review of your application is completed, if you are selected to interview, we will contact you to schedule. Have plans to visit in-person before you apply? If you have not submitted your application but believe you have competitive test scores and work experience, you can send your resume and a copy of your test scores to mba@scheller.gatech.edu to see if you're eligible to schedule a pre-application on-campus admissions interview. What do I bring to my admissions interview? Treat your admissions interview like an employment interview. Dress professionally and come prepared; bring your resume and do your research in advance. When and how will I receive an admissions decision? Please refer to our notification dates. All applicants are notified by e-mail. Admission decisions cannot be given over the phone. Am I eligible for admission to your program if I have an MBA from another institution? If you have an MBA from an institution outside the U.S., you may be eligible for admission. If you have an MBA from another institution inside the U.S., you are ineligible to qualify for admission to our MBA program. Application Process What are the application requirements and deadlines for the Evening MBA program? View application deadlines and more details about application requirements. How can I apply? Submit the online application. The online application enables you to create a username and password to save your work and return at a later time to complete. Follow the instructions for the Georgia Tech graduate application process. What materials must be received before the application is considered complete and can be evaluated? Completed applications include the application, resume, official academic transcripts, essays, letters of recommendation, official TOEFL scores (if applicable), and official test scores (Executive Assessment for those with 5 or more years of experience or GMAT or GRE). You can also apply without a test score. Click here to learn more. What are the application essays? There are three required essays and one optional essay. Why an MBA and why Georgia Tech? (Required) Describe how your experiences, both professional and personal, have led you to the decision to pursue an MBA at Georgia Tech. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Short- and long-term career goals (Required) Discuss your short- and long-term career goals and how Georgia Tech is best suited to help you achieve your goals. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Ten facts (Required) List 10 facts about yourself that will help your future classmates get to know you. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Optional essay The admissions committee believes that the required essays address issues that help us learn about you and understand your candidacy for the MBA program; however, you may provide us with any additional information pertinent to your admission that has not been previously covered in the rest of the application. Feel free to discuss any unique aspects of your candidacy or any perceived weaknesses. 2,000 character maximum (including spaces). Does the Georgia Tech Scheller MBA program accept the MBA Common Letter of Recommendation? Yes, the Georgia Tech Scheller MBA program accepts the Common Letter of Recommendation (LOR) posted on the GMAC website. When your recommenders receive the email asking for their recommendation, they can upload the Common LOR as part of the recommendation. What should I do if I can't submit all application materials by the deadline? Contact us online or call us at 404.894.8722. I am scheduled to take the GMAT, GRE, or TOEFL exam(s) right before the application deadline, so I won't have my official scores in time. What should I do? Taking the GMAT, GRE, or TOEFL right before the application deadline is fine. When you submit the online application, you can include your unofficial scores and the admissions committee can begin a preliminary evaluation of your application. An admission decision cannot be made until the official scores are received. I want to send my official GMAT scores to Georgia Tech for the Evening MBA program, what is the institute code? The GMAT institute code for the Evening MBA program is: HWK-54-44. I want to send my official GRE scores to Georgia Tech for the Evening MBA program, what is the institute code? The GRE institute code for the Evening MBA program is: 5248. Can I apply for the Evening MBA program without a test score? Yes. Visit the MBA Test-Optional FAQs to learn more. Do I have testing options other than the GMAT or GRE? Yes. In addition to the GMAT and GRE, we accept the Executive Assessment (EA) for candidates who have at least five years of work experience. How can I check the status of my application? You can check on the status of your admission online at: Georgia Tech Graduate Studies website. If you still have questions or concerns after checking your status online, contact us. Please note, we typically receive your official GMAT or GRE scores in about a week, but scores take additional time to post on the online application status check. If I am a permanent resident, is the application process different? If you're a permanent resident of the United States, you must include a copy of your Permanent Resident Card (Green Card), both front and back, with your application. The remaining application process is the same as for U.S. citizens. Permanent residents are exempt from the TOEFL and are not required to submit financial documents. International Applicants Who is considered an international applicant? Georgia Tech considers you an international applicant if you are neither a United States citizen nor a United States permanent resident, regardless of where in the world you live. What is the admissions process for international applicants? International applications are evaluated in the same manner as United States applicants. Non-United States citizens may need to submit a Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score. Application processing may take longer due to the review of foreign academic transcripts and financial documents. We strongly encourage all international applicants to submit application materials early to expedite the admissions process. Who is required to take the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)? Applicants who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States, or of a country where English is not the sole official language of instruction, and who have not successfully completed at least one year of study at an accredited university in the United States must submit a valid TOEFL score. Countries where English is the sole official language of instruction include Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Belize, Canada — except Québec, Cayman Islands, Ghana, Guam, Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, Liberia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Scotland, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Singapore, Trinidad & Tobago, Uganda, United Kingdom, and Wales. Scores are valid for two years. Find a testing center and register for the TOEFL test. What is the minimum TOEFL score needed to be admitted? The minimum TOEFL score is 95 on the internet-based test (iBT). I want to send my official TOEFL score to Georgia Tech. What is your institute code and department code? Institute code: 5248 Department code: 02 I have been living and working in the United States for several years. Am I still required to submit a TOEFL? Unless you are a permanent resident of the United States, you are required to submit a TOEFL score. What academic documents are required for application to the program? The Office of Graduate Studies at Georgia Tech requires the following documents from international applicants: Official Native Language Transcripts Official English Translation of the Native Language Transcript Official Native Language Degree Documents Official English Translation of the Native Language Degree Document For more information, visit the Office of Graduate Studies at Georgia Tech website. Does Georgia Tech accept evaluations of academic documents from private sources, such as WES? The Georgia Tech MBA Admissions Office does not accept any private evaluation of academic documents. Official transcripts and degree documents must be submitted at the time of application, and the Office at Graduates Studies at Georgia Tech will evaluate them. What are the educational requirements for admission to the MBA program? All applicants to the MBA program must hold the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree to be considered for admission. A three-year degree is not equivalent to the U.S. bachelor's degree. Neither professional designations nor work experience will count toward the fourth year of study. Do you issue F-1 or J-1 student visas for the Evening MBA? No, we do not issue F-1 or J-1 visas for Evening MBA students. International Evening MBA students are generally on H-1B or L-1 visas. Financial Information What are the tuition and fees for the Evening MBA program? View current MBA tuition and fees. What are the requirements to be considered a Georgia resident for tuition purposes? You are considered a Georgia resident for tuition purposes if you have been a resident of Georgia for 12 consecutive months for a purpose other than attending school. For the official policy regarding residency classification, view the University System of Georgia policy. Candidates who have relocated to Georgia for full-time employment, as well as their spouses, may qualify for Georgia resident tuition through the Economic Advantage Program. View more information on out-of-state tuition waivers. Application for the Economic Advantage Waiver should only be completed after admission. Are there opportunities for financial aid or assistance? Yes, including: Fellowships We award a limited number of fellowships to Evening MBA students. Applicants who apply by Rounds 1 or 2 receive first consideration. No additional application materials are required. Education Loans U.S. citizens and permanent residents may be eligible for education loans. To learn more about graduate financial aid and loan programs, contact Georgia Tech's Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid website. Employer Tuition Reimbursement Contact your employer's human resources department for available tuition assistance programs and eligibility. The Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA program is eligible for the University System of Georgia's Employee Tuition Assistance Program (TAP). Economic Advantage Program Candidates who have relocated to Georgia for full-time employment, as well as their spouses, may qualify for Georgia resident tuition through the Economic Advantage Program. View more information on out-of-state tuition waivers. Application for the Economic Advantage Waiver should only be completed after admission. The Post-9/11 GI Bill, Yellow Ribbon Program Effective August 1, 2011, qualified U.S. veterans may be eligible to receive financial support for tuition, mandatory fees, books, and housing. Yellow Ribbon is awarded on a first-come, first-serve basis, and slots are limited. Visit the Office of the Registrar's veteran's services page for more information. Additional information is available through the Department of Veterans Affairs GI Bill website, or you may contact us with questions. Career Development What are the opportunities for Evening MBA students in the MBA Career Services Office? The Jones MBA Career Center offers a variety of services to help you position your skills for promotion within your current organization or to start a career with a new employer. Services include career coaching, on-and off-campus recruiting, and career development workshops. Visit the Evening MBA career development page for a list of resources and recruiting companies. Reapplication & Readmission If I am admitted to the Evening MBA program, can I defer my admission? Yes. Admission can be deferred for up to one year. How do I re-apply? We keep your application for one year, so if you are reapplying in the year immediately following your initial application you will not need to resubmit the full application. If it has been more than a year since you first applied, you will need to resubmit some of the application documents. In this case, the MBA Admissions Office can advise you on which documents you need to resubmit. Contact us online or call us at 404.894.8722 for more information. If I am declined admission, what is the process to re-apply? Declined applicants who want to be reconsidered for admission need to submit an updated resume and a letter of reconsideration addressing the weaknesses in the original application and the steps taken to make improvements. If I am reapplying, do I need to submit all of the application documents again? Georgia Tech retains applications for one year. If you are applying within one year of your original application, you will just need to submit an updated resume and letter of reconsideration. If it has been more that one year since your initial application, you will need to resubmit all of the application documents. If I am not accepted, may I get feedback on my application? Due to the volume of applications, we regret we are not able to provide individual feedback to candidates who have been declined. To make a self-assessment about the decision, declined applicants are encouraged to view the admitted students' class profile and make an assessment of their own application given the following criteria: clear communication throughout the admissions process about career goals, Georgia Tech interest, personal strengths, and professional and leadership experiences; English proficiency; quantitative and analytical aptitude; noteworthy academic achievement, impressive career results, and GMAT/GRE scores that are close to, or exceed, the median scores of the previous entering class. Are re-applicants at a disadvantage because they applied previously? No. Each application is reviewed on its own merits. Take action Request More Info Attend an Info Session Meet Us Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures