Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News Match Day 2022: Columbia Medical Students Celebrate Their Residencies March 18, 2022 On Match Day, 146 VP&S students discovered where they will start their medical training after graduation and celebrated their residencies with family and friends in person. Topic Medical School CUIMC Update - March 16, 2022 March 16, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Katrina Armstrong and Anne Taylor: “There’s a broad coalition committed to principles of equity” March 16, 2022 Listen to two CUIMC leaders—Anne Taylor, SVP for faculty affairs, and Katrina Armstrong, chief executive officer—discuss diversity, inclusion, and anti-racism at the medical center. Topic Campus News Hiroo Takayama Appointed Chief of Adult Cardiac Surgery March 15, 2022 Internationally renowned “surgeon’s surgeon” is known for his skill in highly complex cases. Topic Campus News House Calls Make a Comeback By Brenda Lange March 14, 2022 A house calls program of the ColumbiaDoctors Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Group, with support from Columbia health professions students, helps local seniors stay healthy in their homes. Topic Campus News Incoming CUIMC and VP&S Leader: “What we do is so incredibly rewarding. We’re constantly learning and growing.” March 9, 2022 Listen to CUIMC and VP&S leader Katrina Armstrong discuss her journey as a doctor and as a leader, why biomedical research must address health disparities, and what’s on her NYC bucket list. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - March 9, 2022 March 9, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Break the Bias: A Conversation with Anne Taylor, MD March 7, 2022 For International Women's Day, Taylor discussed progress, mentorship, and the opportunities that lie ahead for a more equitable medical professoriate. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion CUIMC Update - March 2, 2022 March 2, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Women’s History Month: Women at CUIMC Who Made a Difference March 2, 2022 Many women connected to CUIMC have made deep and lasting imprints over the years. Meet some of the remarkable clinicians, educators, scientists, and alumni from throughout history. Topic Campus News Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top