Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu City and Regional Planning About Programs People Research/Outreach Giving Design Collaborative Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Program Resources Master's Degree Dual Degrees Undergraduate Study Study Abroad UofM Graduate Catalog Take Action Apply to Our Master's Program Assistantships and Financial Support Contact Us! SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Planning Programs Dual Degrees Pursue Dual Master's Degrees Students enrolled in our Master of City and Regional Planning program can simultaneously pursue a second master's degree in a complementary field. To facilitate dual degree paths, up to 20 percent of the total combined credits required for the two degree programs can be shared. (Regulations can be found in the Graduate Catalog.) Pairing a second degree with a Master's in City and Regional Planning allows students to develop a particular specialization or to simply broaden their perspective on public policy. And the ability to apply certain credits to both degrees makes it easy. Students may pursue a second degree in any program that meets their education needs, and we can help you craft an appropriate path. Here's an example: Master of City and Regional Planning and Master of Arts in Anthropology Training in Anthropology gives planners additional skills in qualitative research methods and a broader understanding of social organization, socio-economic inequalities, power and social justice, and cultural heritage. This dual degree path can be completed in 6 semesters. MCRP 48 credits MA Anthropology + 36 Combined Credits Required 84 Minus Shared Credits (20%) - 16 Total Credits Taken 68 Other possible dual degree pairings include: Master of Architecture Master of Civil Engineering Master of Arts in Earth Science with Concentration in Geography Master of Social Work Master of Public Administration Master of Public Health Add a Graduate Certificate to Your Master's Degree Students in our Master of City and Regional Planning program can also pursue related Graduate Certificates during their studies. Our program allows between 18 and 21 hours of electives -- and elective courses can count toward our MCRP degree and a Graduate Certificate. In many cases a student can earn the Master's degree in and the Graduate Certificate in just 4 semesters. The following Graduate Certificate programs can be obtained in coordination with a Master of City and Regional Planning degree: Population Health, 15 credits Geographic Information Systems, 12 credits Local Government Management, 15 credits Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.