Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar University Scheduling Office Tutorials and Frequently Asked Questions Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. Tutorials and Frequently Asked Questions Video Tutorials Creating a Reservation: Managing Reservations: Frequently Asked Questions What is Space [email protected]? Space [email protected] is Brown University's new, online scheduling interface. This user interface allows for quick booking of departmental meetings, colloquia and lectures. Departmental approvers can easily approve or deny requests for use of their space and can enter reservation requests for University space. Space [email protected] allows authorized members of the Brown community to request, approve and deny the use of University space 24 hours a day, seven days a week from any computer with internet access. Who can access Space [email protected]? Anyone with an active Brown user id and password can log in to Space [email protected] to request a reservation. Your privileges in the system are dictated by the security role to which you are assigned. What are the recommended browsers? Mozilla® Firefox® for Windows® (recommended) Google Chrome for Windows (recommended) Microsoft Internet Explorer for Windows Apple® Safari® for Windows and Macintosh Mozilla Firefox for Macintosh Also available on mobile devices: Google Chrome for Apple and Android devices Apple® Safari® for iOS mobile devices Space Reservations supports the latest version for each of these browsers. Minor display variations may occur between browsers. Logging in Open the Space Reservations url: space-reservations.brown.edu from one of the recommended browsers. The link is also on the Scheduling Office homepage: www.brown.edu/scheduling. You will then use your Brown user id and password to log in. If you have any issues with this user id and password, call the Help Desk at (401) 863-HELP (4357) or email them at [email protected]. How do I request space? When you log in, you are placed on the My Reservations page, showing you a list of your current and outstanding requests. Click “Make a Reservation” from the top right. This link is also available on the My Spaces page. The space I want to book is not showing up in the locations list. You may be in the request form and choosing a time when the location you are interested in using is not available. Try selecting a different start time, or choose another location. I put in a space request. How will I know if my space is confirmed? You will receive email confirmation from the University Scheduling Office or departmental approver. We may not be able to confirm your reservation right away, especially if you are requesting classroom space before the academic schedule has been finalized. However, if you have not heard back from the Scheduling Office and are trying to plan ahead for a large lecture or event, please email [email protected], or call us at (401) 863-6217. We also recommend that you print a copy of your reservation details. How do I cancel a reservation? To cancel your reservation in Space [email protected], click on My Reservations. When you find the reservation, there is a “Cancel” button on the right hand side. If you created your reservation in 25live, you need to email [email protected] to cancel, or find the reservation in Space Reservations on the My Reservations page and click Cancel. How do I book space for an outside group? Space reservations for external organizations need to be coordinated through University Events. You can email them at [email protected] or call them at (401) 863-3100. 25Live Pro User guides (effective November 5, 2019) Event Tool User Manual Related Files 25Live Pro Event Tool 25Live Pro User Manual Academic Calendar Academic Records University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Scheduling Policies Tutorials and FAQs Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies