Skip to main content For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Search Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Search Penn Law Academics A dynamic, cross-disciplinary legal education Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions Begin your journey Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers Fostering the professional success of students and alumni Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity & Inclusion Cultivating a diverse and inclusive intellectual community Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Transformative work from renowned interdisciplinary scholars Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest A community anchored in service Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact The intellectual vitality of our community Impacts & Insights Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Home Faculty»Dorothy E. Roberts Contact Information Phone 2155732155 Email dorothyroberts@law.upenn.edu Dorothy Roberts CV (PDF) Articles in Repository Dorothy E. Roberts George A. Weiss University Professor of Law and Sociology and the Raymond Pace and Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander Professor of Civil Rights Dorothy Roberts, an acclaimed scholar of race, gender and the law, joined the University of Pennsylvania as its 14th Penn Integrates Knowledge Professor with joint appointments in the Departments of Africana Studies and Sociology and the Law School where she holds the inaugural Raymond Pace and Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander chair. She is also founding director of the Penn Program on Race, Science & Society in the Center for Africana Studies. Her path breaking work in law and public policy focuses on urgent social justice issues in policing, family regulation, science, medicine, and bioethics. Her major books include Fatal Invention: How Science, Politics, and Big Business Re-create Race in the Twenty-first Century (New Press, 2011); Shattered Bonds: The Color of Child Welfare (Basic Books, 2002), and Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction, and the Meaning of Liberty (Pantheon, 1997). She is the author of more than 100 scholarly articles and book chapters, as well as a co-editor of six books on such topics as constitutional law and women and the law. Her work has been supported by the American Council of Learned Societies, National Science Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Harvard Program on Ethics & the Professions, and Stanford Center for the Comparative Studies in Race & Ethnicity. Recent recognitions of her scholarship and public service include 2019 Rutgers University- Newark Honorary Doctor of Laws degree, 2017 election to the National Academy of Medicine, 2016 Society of Family Planning Lifetime Achievement Award, 2016 Tanner Lectures on Human Values, 2015 American Psychiatric Association Solomon Carter Fuller Award. Education JDHarvard80 BAYale77 Courses Taught Reproductive Rights and Justice| Race, Science, and Justice| Criminal Law| Family Law| The Constitution and the Family| Critical Race Theory| Current Controversies in Child Welfare Policy Featured Research More Publications Digitizing the Carceral State, reviewing Virginia Eubanks, AUTOMATING INEQUALITY: HOW HIGH-TECH TOOLS PROFILE, POLICE, AND PUNISH THE POOR (St. Martin’s Press, 2017), 132 HARV. L. REV. 1695 (2019). Foreword: Abolition Constitutionalism, The Supreme Court 2018 Term, 133 HARVARD L. REV. 1 (2019). Democratizing Criminal Law as an Abolitionist Project, 111 NW. U. L. REV. 1597 (2017). Crossing Two Color Lines: Interracial Marriage and Residential Segregation in Chicago, 45 CAP. U. L. REV. 1 (2017). Killing the Black Body: Race, Reproduction, and the Meaning of Liberty (Random House/Pantheon, 1997; Vintage paperback, 1999; Vintage 20th anniversary ed., 2017). Why Sociology Matter to Race and Biosocial Science, 46 ANN. REV. SOCIOLOGY 46 (2020) (with Oliver Rollins). In the NewsView All Race and Regulation Podcast Series May 25, 2022 Prof. Dorothy Roberts Discusses the Link Between the Anti-Abortion Movement & “Replacement Theory”: MSNBC May 23, 2022 Child Welfare System Abolition May 9, 2022 Penn Carey Law Reacts to Leaked Opinion May 3, 2022 University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School 3501 Sansom Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7483 Centers & Institutes Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law School Leadership Penn Contact Support Us Jobs Copyright 2022 University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School. All Rights Reserved. Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | The Fine Print Site Login