Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Degree Programs HomeJDJD/MBAJD/MA in Pol. ScienceJD/MPHMPH Fast-TrackPart-time Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs HomeAdvocacyBusiness LawHealth LawTax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program Law Review Law Review Home Editorial Board Editor-in-Chief Joining Law Review Virtual Tour of Law Review Suite Symposium Subscriptions Archives Current Volume Connect with Us Advocacy Program Moot Court BoardJoining Moot Court BoardIn-School CompetitionsTravel Team CompetitionsPast Champions Inst. for Health Law & Policy Legal Methods Program Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Programs Joining Law Review JOINING LAW REVIEW Membership on the University of Memphis Law Review is limited to second- and third-year law students who are selected based on their performance in a competition held during the summer of their 1L year. After successfully completing the required courses of a full-time first year law student, and achieving a GPA of 2.50 or higher, the law student is eligible to participate in the summer competition. Part-time law students and transfer students are also eligible to participate once they have completed the required courses of a full-time first year law student and have met the GPA requirements. Second-year transfers are eligible to compete once they complete the second year coursework and have met the GPA requirements. Selection Up to thirty rising 2Ls will be chosen as staff members of the Law Review. The three highest-ranked students in each section of the first-year class at the end of the first year will receive automatic invitations to be Law Review staff members pending a good faith completion of the summer competition. Selection of the other staff members is based on the results of the summer competition, which is designed to demonstrate the students' aptitude for legal scholarly writing, researching, and cite checking. The competitors are required to write a Case Comment on a recent state or federal case, as well as complete a citation and editing exam for a piece of unpublished work. The anonymous competition is scored by the Editorial Board and the top scoring 2Ls are then selected as Staff Members. Membership If selected for membership on the Law Review, the duties for 2Ls and 3Ls include line editing and cite checking the articles chosen for publication. Additionally, 2L members must write their own work of legal scholarship, the student Note. The Note is roughly thirty to fifty pages in length, and explores a specific issue within an area of law. Rising 3L members may apply for positions on the Law Review Editorial Board. The Editorial Board is responsible for day-to-day operations of each facet of the journal: article selection and editing, cite checking supervision and reconciliation, and student Note consultation. Student Publications Each year, the Law Review selects a number of student works to publish. Selected student Notes and the winning Case Comment from the summer competition are published throughout the year. In conjunction with the faculty, the Editor-in-Chief and the Senior Notes Editor select the best students Notes of those published. The top three ranking Notes receive a cash award and plaque for their achievement. Credit Upon successful completion of their Note and other assignments, 2L Staff Members will receive two credits in the spring semester of their 2L year, as well as satisfaction of the legal writing requirement. Senior Staff Members will receive an additional credit hour during the spring of their 3L year. Editorial Board members receive two additional credit hours during the spring of their 3L year, for a total of four credits for fulfilling all of their Law Review responsibilities. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/4/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.