skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login How to apply Admission requirements Transferring credits Transfer pathways Admitted students Apply Visit News Give Transfer to Nevada Admissions at the University of Nevada, Reno How to apply Admission requirements Transferring credits Transfer pathways Admitted students Transfer into the Pack family! We welcome students transferring to the University of Nevada, Reno from community colleges and four-year institutions. Speak with transfer specialist Do your credits transfer? How to apply New application Review our admission requirements and application deadlines for more information about the online application, application due dates, priority scholarship consideration, housing deadlines and more. How to apply Continue a saved application Already started an application? Log into the online application portal to submit your application. Continue your application Check application status You can check the status of your application through MyNEVADA. You must activate your MyNEVADA account prior to accessing your application status. Check your application status The transfer admissions process. Admission requirements Get more information about admission requirements for transfer students. Admissions requirements Admission deadlines Review application deadlines for Fall and Spring admission cycles. Admission deadlines Transfer Pathways Learn more about Transfer Pathway programs, including the Silver State Transfer Program for students from Nevada and other options for students from other states, such as California. Transfer Pathway programs Transferring credits Review the information below to learn more about what types of coursework and credits transfer to the University. Do my credits transfer? Transfer agreements Transfer agreements outline the path to completion for both the associate and subsequent bachelor's degree. Transfer agreements Build a transfer map Use a free account in Transferology to build a transfer map by selecting the University of Nevada, Reno and your transfer institution. Log-in to Transferology Learn more about the University and transfer process. Join us for in-person and Zoom workshops to meet with transfer specialists, admissions and records representatives, academic advisors and more. Register for a workshop Learn about Pack life. Find a major 13 colleges. 40 departments. 145+ bachelor's degree options. Find an academic path that fits your personal and professional goals. Majors and minors Costs and aid In-state tuition is under $8,000 per year and out-of-state tuition through the Western Undergraduate Exchange (WUE) is only $11,206 per year for qualified students. Find a financial program that works for you. Tuition, costs and aid On-campus housing Transfer students can apply to live in the Transfer Living Learning Community, designed to meet the unique needs of transfer students. Residence halls Office Contact Information Location: Fitzgerald Student Services Building Director, Kari Emm: kemm@unr.edu Phone: (775) 784-4700, option 1 Follow us on social media: Office Contact Information Transfer to Nevada Facebook Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX