Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search SMU Undergraduate Admission Accepted Students Accepted Students Accepted Students Paying for College at SMU Welcome Parents! Visit SMU! Your Next Steps Welcome to SMU's Class of 2026! To reserve your place in SMU's Class of 2026, pay your nonrefundable $750 Orientation, Housing and Matriculation deposit at smu.edu/deposit by May 1. (You will need the email address and password you used to view your SMU admission decision.) Reserve My Place New Student Checklist Please download the New Student Checklist to make sure you are on track to start classes at SMU this fall. Visit SMU Admitted Student Days At this event, admitted students can hear from SMU admission counselors, ask questions of a student panel, and attend an academic school breakout session. We will also cover your next steps as you make your college decision. Admitted Student Days can be especially helpful if you have not had a chance to attend an SMU event previously or have not visited campus before. This event will be offered both virtually and on our campus. Admitted Student Receptions Join other admitted students as you learn about the student experience at SMU and how to prepare for a great first year on the Hilltop! SMU representatives will be in attendance to answer any of your questions. These events will be offered both virtually and in-person in select cities across the country. Admitted Student Visits (Campus Tour) Admitted Student Visits are offered during the week, as well as selected Saturdays. Each visit consists of an information session led by an Admission Officer preceding a 75 minute campus tour led by a current SMU student. If you still have questions after your visit, and Admission Officer will be available to meet with you. While you are on campus, we want to provide you with the opportunity to customize your SMU visit with your interests. We encourage you to register for an Academic Information Session with the Cox School of Business, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, Lyle School of Engineering, Meadows School of the Arts or Simmons School of Education and Human Development to learn more about our academic offerings (program list available here)! The times of the sessions complement our morning and afternoon Admission Information Session and campus tour. Destination SMU This exclusive program is for admitted students and their families. At the event, you will be able to meet fellow Mustangs while learning about campus life, housing, SMU traditions and your next steps. You will be able to pick and choose different sessions to learn about campus departments and resources. This event will be offered both virtually and on our campus. Virtual Student Panels This virtual event is a great opportunity for admitted students to connect with our current SMU students. Hear how Mustangs get involved on campus, build connections with their professors, and pursue research and internship opportunities. Learn about what it is like to live in Dallas and the enriching opportunities that await you outside of the classroom. For Parents We look forward to welcoming your parents to the Mustang Family! Click here for helpful information for parents. Financial Aid Your SMU education is an investment that will pay dividends for a lifetime. Partner with us to make it possible. Three out of four undergraduates receive financial aid in the form of a merit-based award, grant, or need-based assistance. Fill out the Application for Financial Aid (FAFSA/CSS Profile) to explore further merit-based opportunities for which you may be eligible. SMU's financial aid advisors can help you and your family determine the best way to finance your future. Social Media Join the SMU Class of 2026 Facebook Group and the SMU Class of 2026 Instagram Group. These are closed groups that will allow you to connect with other students admitted to SMU's Class of 2026.* * Please note the first and last name used on your application to SMU will be confirmed with you via a Facebook or Instagram message before you are admitted to the group(s). You can also follow the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube. Wallpapers Show your SMU pride by downloading and using any of these desktop, mobile phone or Facebook backgrounds! Click here to access the files. Zoom Backgrounds Congratulations on your admission! Show your Mustang Pride by using any of these Zoom backgrounds on your next call. Just right click on the image and save it to your desktop. Campus aerial view Dallas Hall – option 1 Dallas Hall – option 2 Dallas Hall texture Dallas Hall with fountain SMU Football Ford Stadium Fountain SMU Bound – option 1 SMU Bound – option 2 Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search