Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK SOCIAL WORK SOCIAL WELFARE (BASW) Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 SOC WF 101 Social Work in Action: Bridging the Gap From Science to Service (5) I&S Explores current social work practice and research applied to major societal problems. Lectures and discussions by leading faculty introduce students to the evidence-based perspective underlying program planning and practice innovation. Topics include: juvenile delinquency, child maltreatment, domestic violence, foster care reform, mental health, school violence, substance abuse, and poverty. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 101 SOC WF 120 International Responses to Human Needs: Social Welfare Polices and Services (5) Focuses on major global social services such as poverty, immigration, and health that are reshaping social welfare policies and services throughout the world. Provides a comparative overview of social welfare policies and programs in the United States and selected other countries. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 120 SOC WF 200 Introduction to Social Welfare Practice (5) I&S Introduction to the field of social work, including the theoretical concepts and institutional framework that guide practice. Overview of social work profession and social welfare system within which it operates. Lectures supplemented by exercises, films, guest lectures, and class discussions. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 200 SOC WF 201 Advances in Prevention Science: Bridging the Gap from Science to Service (5) I&S Investigates the potential for preventing major social problems (child abuse and neglect, alcohol misuse, and interpersonal violence). Critically examines the state of prevention science, includes dialogue about ways to enhance the exchange of ideas between research and practice communities, and explores implications for social policy. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 201 SOC WF 215 Intergroup Dialogues (3) DIV Explores issues of social identities, differences, and inequalities to build understanding, skills, and values for bringing about greater social justice using dialogic communication. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 215 SOC WF 250 Writing for Social Welfare (1-2, max. 2) Offers an engaging space for social welfare students to develop, practice, and strengthen college-level writing using exercises, discussion, and lecture. Covers summarizing and responding, critical thinking and argument, APA style and academic honesty, as well as language and the writing process. Review of punctuation and mechanics, grammar, and sentence style. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 250 SOC WF 297 Study Abroad in Social Work (1-15, max. 15) For participants in a UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 297 SOC WF 310 Social Welfare Practice I (5) Provides an introduction to the roles, tasks, and functions of the social welfare practitioner and to theories and methods of intervention; a conceptual framework for social work practice with individuals, families, and small groups; and an opportunity to develop skills in problem assessment, intervention, termination, and evaluation. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 310 SOC WF 311 Social Welfare Practice II (5) Provides an introduction to the roles, tasks, and functions of the social welfare practitioner and to theories and methods of intervention; a conceptual framework for social work practice with individuals, families, and small groups; and an opportunity to develop skills in problem assessment, intervention, termination, and evaluation. Prerequisite: SOC WF 310. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 311 SOC WF 312 Social Welfare Practice III (5) Focus on macro systems in a diverse society using the generalist perspective. The implications of system resources and configurations for meeting human needs are considered. The role and function of generalist social workers to understand and advocate for system development and change is emphasized. Prerequisite: SOC WF 311. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 312 SOC WF 315 Community Service Learning (1-5, max. 6) Opportunity for students to apply social work theory to practice, to advocate for social justice, and to be involved in community service. Students learn by connecting classroom theory and community-based experience through the completion of community-based projects in social work-type agencies. Majors only. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 315 SOC WF 320 Social Welfare Policy (5) I&S Emphasizes policy and program development in social welfare with emphasis on the context, making, and unmaking of social policy. Covers policy formulation as well as current and emerging policies in social welfare. Prerequisite: SOC WF 200. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 320 SOC WF 390 Introduction to Social Welfare Research (5) Introduction to logic of the scientific method as applied to social work and social welfare practice, to the design and conduct of a research study, and to data collection and summarization. Skill development in critical consumption of social welfare research. Prerequisite: either EDPSY 490, QMETH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, STAT 390, or STAT 311. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 390 SOC WF 402 Human Behavior and Social Environment I (5) I&S Focuses on understanding human development across the lifespan. Integrates biological, psychological, structural, environmental, political, global, and socio-cultural perspectives. Explores the relationship between the person and the environment including families, groups, organizations, communities, and institutions. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 402 SOC WF 404 Cultural Diversity and Justice (5) I&S, DIV History and culture of disadvantaged and oppressed groups served by social welfare generalist practitioners. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 404 SOC WF 405 Fieldwork Seminar (1-4, max. 9) Integrates social work practicum experiences with prior and concurrent coursework in social sciences, social work, and research. Includes discussion of class presentations and simulations or practice situations that combine knowledge and skill utilization. Student logs provide a basis for individual goal identification and achievement. Required of social welfare seniors. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 405 SOC WF 410 Evidence-Based Practices in Social Welfare (3) Focuses on interface between social work research and practice, with attention to origins and defining features of evidence-based practice (EBP) and approaches to intervention consistent with EBP framework. Integrates content on research and practice priorities, and provides students with knowledge and skills to promote use of theory-driven, empirically-supported interventions. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 410 SOC WF 415 Beginning Field Instruction (1-12, max. 12) Students are placed in selected social service agencies and accept beginning social service assignments under the supervision of competent agency personnel. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 415 SOC WF 435 Skills for Social Welfare Practice (1) Builds on first-year generalist practice content. Provides skill building in one or two areas of social work practice relevant to many practice settings. Topic chosen by students and faculty. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 435 SOC WF 442 Building Competencies for Intergroup Dialogue Facilitation (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Focuses on both knowledge and skills development for peer facilitators. Topics include philosophy and principles of dialogic education and dialogic communication; intergroup communication; social identity development; principles of working with conflict; group dynamics, observation, and facilitation; team building among co-facilitators; and creating a support system among instructors and facilitators. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 442 SOC WF 443 Facilitating Intergroup Dialogue (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Practicum seminar providing instruction, consultation, and supervision of peer group facilitators. Focuses on comparison of facilitation experiences and consultations, trouble-shooting with other facilitators, co-facilitator team building, and planning for dialogues. Exploration of specific, current intergroup issues, such as affirmative action and immigration. Continuation of team-building work begun in SOC WF 442. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 443 SOC WF 445 Special Topics in Social Work Practice Methods (3, max. 6) Examines roles, skills, and methods in designated areas of social work practice. Content builds on foundation practice methods. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 445 SOC WF 450 Integrative Seminar: Poverty Analysis (5) Critical analysis of poverty both in the United States and from a global perspective. Analytical and descriptive focus on measurement, processes of production and perpetuation, and theoretical perspectives that lead to different social and economic policy responses. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 450 SOC WF 460 Chemical Dependency: Assessment and Treatment (3) Provides students the knowledge and basic skills needed to recognize and understand the dynamics of chemical dependency in the lives of individuals. Students learn how to assess the presence of this disorder and what the issues are in referring individuals to treatment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 460 SOC WF 465 Social Welfare Capstone Seminar (1) Students demonstrate and reflect on mastery of core competencies and respective practice behaviors foundational to generalist practice. Studies analyze and synthesize data from their experiences in the BASW program and integrate this understanding with their new identity as a professional social worker. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 465 SOC WF 490 Independent Research in Social Welfare (1-15, max. 15) Individual work with faculty member to assist with current research project(s). Students trained and supervised in some or all of the following research tasks: literature review, data analysis, record-keeping, interviewing, report writing, data entry and coding, data collection, and other tasks commonly found in research problems in social welfare. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 490 SOC WF 491 Honors Seminar (1, max. 3) Three quarter seminar for students admitted into the BASW Honors Program. Guides students through stages of research conceptualization and proposal writing, IRB application, data collection and analysis, and dissemination. Includes feedback and discussion with instructor and peers. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 491 SOC WF 492 Honors Thesis I (3-) Part one of a two quarter series for BASW Honors students writing their honors thesis. Students carry out an individual project of their choosing under the guidance of a faculty member. Focuses on data collection, management, and preliminary analysis. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 492 SOC WF 493 Honors Thesis II (-3) Part two of a two quarter series for BASW Honors students writing their honors thesis. Students carry out an individual project of their choosing under the guidance of a faculty member. Focuses on data analysis, research writing, and presentation of results. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 493 SOC WF 495 Special Topics in Generalist Social Welfare (1-5, max. 15) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant topics of special and current interest to social workers. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 495 SOC WF 497 Advanced Study Abroad in Social Work (1-15, max. 15) For participants in a UW study abroad program. Specific content varies and must be individually evaluated. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 497 SOC WF 499 Independent Study in Social Welfare (1-15, max. 15) Independent reading or independent study. Includes written paper. Not open to graduate or non-matriculated students. View course details in MyPlan: SOC WF 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022