Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Courses Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 PhD Programs The Ancient History program is currently paused and not accepting applications as it undergoes restructuring. Applicants interested in studying Ancient History with a strong language focus in Ancient Greek and Latin are encouraged to apply to Classics, which houses several distinguished ancient historians. The requirements for that program can be found on the Classics PhD program page. The department offers doctoral work in the following: Graduate Program Program Director Ph.D. program in Classics Professor Stephen Kidd Ph.D. program in Ancient History Professor Graham Oliver Ph.D. track in Sanskrit TBD Applying to the PhD Program Applications for the Classics doctoral programs are due by January 1 of each year. All applicants to the program must submit a personal statement, a writing sample, and three letters of recommendation (submitted directly by the letter writers). Foreign applicants must also submit the results from the TOEFL exam (some exceptions apply). GRE scores are not required for the application. Application Information Apply Now Types of Support In the first year, fellowship support means that the student may concentrate entirely on coursework and preparation for the translation exams. In the second year, the student usually begins work as a teaching assistant, with a work expectation of not more than 20 hours per week. The stipend is obtained through this type of work, or by working as a teaching fellow, normally through the fourth year. Upon completion of the oral preliminary examination the student may apply for a dissertation fellowship from the University. More information about support and funding can be found on the Graduate School website. Study Abroad Brown University is a supporting institution of both the American School of Classical Studies at Athens and the American Academy in Rome. Periods of study at one of these institutions are regularly undertaken by graduate students in the department. Substantial financial assistance to attend these programs is available for qualified graduate students. Opportunities also exist for students to spend a summer, semester, or year at other institutions abroad. Research Travel Related Studies Graduate facilities at Brown are particularly rich in the fields of Greek and Latin literature, philosophy, history, epigraphy, and archaeology. Students may take related courses offered in the following programs: Comparative Literature Early Cultures Egyptology & Assyriology History History of Art & Architecture Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology & the Ancient World Medieval Studies Modern Greek Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Graduate School Resources Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Courses Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top