Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Orthodontics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Orthodontics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Orthodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Financial Aid Required Courses Research & Facilities Graduate Certificate in Orthodontics The Graduate Program in Orthodontics from Temple University’s Kornberg School of Dentistry emphasizes evidence-based, patient-centered and outcome-driven care. This full-time, 26-month, postdoctoral certificate program educates residents to become qualified specialists in orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics with expertise in applied basic sciences, compassionate care for patients, clinical biomechanics and diagnosis treatment planning. Residents are also required to complete a Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences while completing the Orthodontics certificate program. Residents receive advanced didactic and clinical instruction across all aspects of the discipline, in preparation for a career as an orthodontist in settings such as clinical practice, research and academics. Graduates are prepared to pursue certification by the American Board of Orthodontics. The Orthodontics curriculum incorporates advanced understanding of cutting-edge orthodontic instrumentation, with a focus on evidence-based diagnosis and treatment planning. You’ll critically evaluate dental literature, research, theories, technological advancements and therapeutic procedures and apply these practices to the multidisciplinary, interprofessional treatment of patients. You’ll also develop the skills needed for the sound management of your clinical practice. Clinical and didactic seminar coursework is completed at the Kornberg School of Dentistry and during a course at the Charles H. Tweed International Foundation for Orthodontic Research and Education in Tucson, Arizona, where you will receive intensive hands-on training in differential diagnosis and mechanics. Matriculation for the Orthodontics program starts in July of each year and residents are expected to maintain continuous residency status over the course of the program. Completion of the certificate also awards residents with a concurrent Master of Science degree in Oral Health Sciences. Program goals The Orthodontics Certificate has developed clearly stated the following goals and objectives appropriate to advanced specialty education, which address education, patient care, research and service. Graduate orthodontists who possess and apply the knowledge and skills required to diagnose, understand the basis of, and adequately treat, alone or in concert with other dental and medical practitioners, orthodontic cases while maintaining the health of the patient. Prepare orthodontic residents for certification by the American Board of Orthodontics. Prepare orthodontic residents to effectively communicate knowledge of orthodontics and related craniofacial anomalies to other medical-dental professionals and their patients Graduate orthodontists who possess the knowledge and skills required to critically evaluate the dental literature, research, technological advancements, and therapeutic procedures, and apply this knowledge into their diagnosis, treatment plan and clinical practice. Graduate orthodontists who understand the theory and methods of clinical and basic science research. Receive positive feedback from program graduates in the ongoing evaluation of the postdoctoral orthodontic program. Graduate orthodontists who understand the importance of lifelong learning, professional development, and their responsibility to the profession and the community at large. Oral Health Sciences MS Students in the Graduate Program in Orthodontics apply for the Master of Science in Oral Health Sciences upon acceptance to the program. In this 30-credit postgraduate master’s program, students apply modern biological principles and research techniques that aid in diagnosing, treating and preventing oral and craniofacial diseases and anomalies. Through the interdisciplinary curriculum, students study the structure, development and function of oral tissues; their interrelationships; and their connections to other organ systems. Research areas include advanced general dentistry, clinical fields, and periodontal and craniofacial regeneration. The program’s Clinical Specialty Track is specifically tailored for postgraduate students currently enrolled in an advanced training certificate in the Kornberg School of Dentistry. Coursework in students’ postgraduate certificate programs count toward the required 30 credits for the Oral Health Sciences MS degree. Learn more about the Oral Health Sciences MS. Orthodontic Externship Externships are scheduled during the months of April, May, June and July. Students interested in taking part in an externship will need to be available, in person, for two to three consecutive days per week, Monday through Friday, from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Please submit the following information to orthodontics@temple.edu to be considered for an externship position. Current curriculum vitae, including GPA Letter of interest regarding an externship in the Department of Orthodontics An accounting of your availability during the months of April, May, June and July Orthodontic Internship The Orthodontics program at Temple University’s Kornberg School of Dentistry offers an Orthodontics internship, which provides the opportunity to build knowledge in orthodontics through a curriculum that balances clinical and didactic methods to become a more competitive applicant for orthodontic residency programs. Learn more about the Orthodontic internship. Classes & Curriculum While clinical instruction will serve as the foundation for much of this program, some required coursework for the Graduate Program in Orthodontics is completed concurrently with the Master of Science in Oral Biology. Orthodontics courses include the following. Introduction to Orthodontics Orthodontic Principles and Techniques Biomechanics History of Orthodontics Learn more about courses in the Orthodontics Specialty Certificate program. Related Professional Degrees Dentistry DMD Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Dental Public Health Endodontics Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Periodontics Careers Dentists who have completed the Orthodontics graduate program are prepared for advanced careers as academic professors, orthodontists, and oral and craniofacial researchers. Career Development Through the Orthodontic department and the Office of Graduate Education, the residents pursuing careers as mentioned above can receive counseling and support during their tenure at Kornberg and after they graduate. The Orthodontic program regularly hosts guest speakers and career events covering a wide range of topics including corporate and private practice careers, debt management, specialty education, office design, and practice management. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Certificate in Dentistry offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about the tuition rates for the 2021–2022 academic year. Program Contact Luz DeJesus is the orthodontics business manager. Phone: 215-707-7733 Email: orthodontics@temple.edu Accreditation The program in orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at 312-440-4653 or at 211 E. Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL, 60611. The commission’s web address is: ada.org/en/coda. The Commission on Dental Accreditation has accredited the program in orthodontics and dentofacial orthopedics. However, accreditation of the program does not in itself constitute recognition of any dental specialty status. DN-ORTG-DENT Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Orthodontics Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Financial Aid Required Courses Research & Facilities Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply