Navigate Search Social Moody Prospective Students Prospective Students Degrees Offered Graduate Admissions Guide Application Deadlines Graduate School Resources International Applicants Diversity Visit SMU Current Students Current Students Forms and Policies Graduation Graduate Writing Center Graduate Student Lounge Career Development Student Services Events Events Events Calendar Orientation Professional Development Research Days Three Minute Thesis Student Life Funding Funding Ph.D. Fellows Ph.D. Health Insurance Graduate Student Travel Grant Dedman Graduate Student Assembly About About Mission and History Moody Foundation Gift Charter Administrative Handbook Dean's Office Messages from the Dean Graduate Council Graduate Student Advisory Board Contact Us Admissions Contacts Blog ADVANCING THE FIELD Stories and Resources for Graduate Students FEATURED STORIES Is a Humanities PhD Worth It? February 8, 2022 If you’ve recently completed a degree in the humanities, you may be considering furthering your education with a PhD. The 6 Best Types of PhD Programs for English Majors February 1, 2022 If you’re reading this, you’re probably exploring your options for advancing your undergraduate degree. Could a PhD be the ticket to realizing your academic goals and dreams? The decision to return to graduate school ... PhD Perspectives: Marie Purcell's Experience in the Religious Studies PhD Program November 18, 2021 Marie Purcell has always loved the way courses in religious studies have offered opportunities to think about the deep questions of life and togetherness, a passion she discovered during her undergraduate studies at St. ... SMU Research Leads to Alzheimer's Discovery August 18, 2021 Lauren Ammerman and James McCormick have more in common that being SMU alumni — both of their grandmothers had Alzheimer's disease and they both worked on a recent study at the SMU lab that has the potential to ... World-Changing Research and Data-Science initiatives at SMU make Dallas an International Hub for Innovation April 27, 2021 The digital revolution is here, and Southern Methodist University is at the forefront. By investing in the latest technologies and emphasizing the importance of interdisciplinary study, our newest programs and focus on ... How to Pay for a PhD: Fellowships for Graduate Students, Research Funding, and More February 1, 2021 If you've ever considered earning a doctorate, one of the questions you've undoubtedly asked yourself is "how will I pay for a Ph.D.?" The good news is, most doctoral students receive fellowships and research funding ... New and Exciting News for Grad Students at SMU: Introducing the Moody School January 12, 2021 Are you contemplating a graduate degree? Are you ready for some good news? Well, big change has come to the SMU graduate community, and it couldn't have happened at a more needed time! 1 2 3 4 5 ... 16 Older Entries > LATEST TOPICS Student Stories (28) Admissions (24) Student Life (17) Chemistry (8) Physics (8) Statistical Science (8) Alumni Stories (7) CATCO (7) Electrical and Computer Engineering (6) Ph.D. Requirements (6) History (5) Anthropology (4) Civil and Environmental Engineering (4) Funding (4) Learning in Dallas (4) Religious Studies (4) School Events (4) Announcements (3) Biology (3) Earth Science (3) Mathematics (3) Education (2) International Student Guide (2) English (1) PhD (1) see all Subscribe to the blog! © Southern Methodist University The Moody School of Graduate & Advanced Studies | P.O. Box 0240, Dallas, TX 75275-0240 Contact Admission Graduate News About Us