Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services ULifeline ULifeline Are you seeking mental health information for yourself? Are you concerned about a friend? Answer this anonymous online tool to learn more about resources available to you at Columbia University. ULifeline is an anonymous and confidential online resource and screening tool that provides students with information about mental health conditions. ULifeline is not intended to provide medical advice or be a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment. Instead, ULifeline lets participants answer questions that will provide information about their mental health and how participants can reach out for more help. ULifeline complements and enhances existing offerings of Columbia University by uniquely combining the following features into one web site that serves as your one-stop online resource for mental health information. Ulifeline Take Evaluation Now Self Evaluator Developed by Duke University Medical Center, the Self Evaluator is a screening program designed to help students uncover whether they, or a friend, are at risk for depression, suicide, and several other disorders, including alcohol and drug dependence, eating disorders, generalized anxiety disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder. The Facts The Facts tab is a mental health reference library that provides quality, user-friendly information that has been reviewed and approved by leading medical experts at Harvard Medical School. Help a Friend This section, provided by the National Mental Health Association, describes the warning signs for depression and suicide, includes information regarding how to help a friend, and lists resources for additional assistance. Who Can Use ULifeline While students are the primary audience for this tool, anyone in the Columbia community, including faculty, staff, administrators, and parents may access this tool. ULifeline is a free service for colleges and Universities and is supported by The Jed Foundation (JED), a nonprofit public charity whose mission is to prevent suicide among college students and enhance mental health support on campuses nationwide. Urgent Care After-hours, call 212-854-2878 for crisis support and recommendations for care. Visit our Coping Tools page for self-help and crisis resources for coping with concerns outside our regular hours of operation. Health Unit Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close