We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Jobs Employment Opportunities Please Read: Important information regarding COVID-19. CSU requires faculty, staff, and students who are accessing campus facilities to be immunized against COVID-19 or declare a medical or religious exemption from doing so. Any candidates advanced in a currently open search process should be prepared to comply with this requirement. The systemwide policy can be found at COVID-19 Vaccination Interim Policy and questions may be sent to jobs@cpp.edu. Notice of Availability of the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, the Annual Security Report (ASR) is available for viewing at https://www.cpp.edu/documents/annual_security_report.pdf. The ASR contains the current security and safety-related policy statements, emergency preparedness and evacuation information, crime prevention and Sexual Assault prevention information, and information about drug and alcohol prevention programming. The ASR also contains statistics of Clery crimes for Cal Poly Pomona for the previous three calendar years. A paper copy of the ASR is available upon request by contacting the Office of the Clery Director located at Student Services Building 121-Room 2511. Pursuant to the Higher Education Opportunity Act, the Annual Fire Safety Report (AFSR) is available for viewing at https://www.cpp.edu/housing/documents/fire_safety_report.pdf. The purpose of this report is to disclose statistics for fires that occurred within Cal Poly Pomona housing facilities for the previous three calendar years, and to distribute fire safety policies and procedures intended to promote safety on campus. A paper copy of the AFSR is available upon request by contacting the University Housing Services Office located at Building 74 Welcome to our Jobs page When you join Cal Poly Pomona as an employee, you join a diverse community of professionals dedicated to supporting students in the pursuit of their college degree and their career dreams. As one of only seven polytechnic universities nationwide, Cal Poly Pomona is known for its learn-by-doing philosophy and for preparing job-ready graduates. We are one of 23 campuses that form the nation's largest university system, The California State University (CSU). We play a critical role in preparing outstanding individuals for the job market and to be leaders that will drive California's economy in the agriculture, information technology, business, hospitality, life sciences, health care, public administration, education, media and entertainment industries. So, explore your opportunities for a career at Cal Poly Pomona and make a difference! Staff/Management Openings Please visit our new Careers page utilizing our new Talent Acquisition Platform: PageUp Careers *For CPP employees interested in new career opportunities we strongly encourage employees to create an account with their CPP email to easily identify internal candidates. Faculty/Academic Openings Includes openings for Faculty employees (unit 3) and Academic Student Employees (unit 11). Open Positions Auxiliary Employment Employment opportunities for Foundation and ASI Cal Poly Pomona Foundation, Inc Associated Students, Inc (ASI) Student Employment Find jobs and internships using Career Center's Handshake. Career Center Handshake CSU Career Employment As the nation's largest, most diverse university, the California State University offers challenging career opportunities in a wide range of disciplines at its 23 campuses throughout the state. Come join the ranks of the renowned scholars and researchers who make the CSU an outstanding university. CSU Careers Related Links General Employment Information Disability Accommodations Equal Opportunity Employer Conflict of Interest Background Check Mandated Reporter - CANRA Title IX Benefits Customer Service Payroll About CPP Virtual Tour We are Cal Poly Pomona 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers