Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Scholarships Cal State Fullerton is pleased to offer a wide variety of scholarships and awards to honor outstanding achievement. Nearly $2 million in scholarships and awards is paid annually at Cal State Fullerton . Students apply for scholarships and are nominated for awards. In addition to scholastic achievement, financial need and other factors may be considered in the selection process. Read and follow the “application procedure” for each scholarship or award in which you are interested. Pay close attention to the scholarship deadlines because different scholarships have different deadlines. Due to the large number of applications received, non-selected applicants are not notified. Important Note: Disbursement of a scholarship is dependent on the criteria set by the donor. Recipient of a scholarship should be aware of the requirements of the awarded scholarship for disbursement. Please allow up to 4-6 weeks starting from the date Student Business Services receives your scholarship check to process your scholarship funds. CSUF and CSU System-Wide Scholarships Full details for scholarships and awards at Cal State Fullerton are available by clicking on the links below: Associated Students Scholarships University Awards University Scholarship College of the Arts College of Business and Economics College of Communications College of Education College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Health and Human Development College of Humanities and Social Sciences College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics Outside Scholarships The Gates Millennium Scholars Cancer for College Scholarship HACU Scholarships Completing the Dream Scholarship Program How Scholarship Can Affect Your Financial Aid Awards As a financial aid recipient, you understand that funds received from an outside sources or agency for educational expenses (i.e. scholarships fee waivers, Voc Rehab assistance, etc.), will be coordinated with all other aid offered and that the coordination of these additional resources may result in changes to the types and amounts of financial aid initially offered by California State University, Fullerton. Disclaimer Federal regulations require students to notify the Office of Financial Aid of any scholarship and/or stipends they are receiving, which includes awards issued by academic departments, as well as those paid directly to the students. All financial aid funds - including scholarship/stipends - are taken into account when determining your eligibility for all other financial aid award(s). Alan Pattee Scholarship The Alan Pattee Scholarship is a waiver of fees and tuition. Applicants must be the natural or adopted child of a deceased law enforcement official or fire fighter who was a California resident, and killed as a result of the performance of official duties. Student and their spouses wanting further application information should contact Sara Martinez, Phone: (657) 278-2204 from the Office of Admissions. Other Scholarship Resources Fast WEB CollegeNet College Board Scholarship Search Sallie Mae Scholarship Search Sallie Mae Graduate School Scholarship Search Where to Send the Scholarship All scholarship recipients must provide their scholarship checks to Student Business Services. The recipient's CWID (Student's ID number) must be written on all scholarship documentation. Where to Mail the Recipient's Scholarship California State University, Fullerton Student Business Services, GH-180 ATTN: Cashiers P.O. Box 6808 Fullerton, CA 92834-6808 Please, contact Student Business Services at (657) 278-2495 to verify if they received your scholarship check. Information can also be gathered from professional associations, business organizations, church and religious foundations or other special interest groups such as community service clubs. Each program will have its own deadlines and application procedures. Over 45 Indian tribes have established their own Grant and Loan Programs to promote higher education for their members. Contracts for tribal assistance should be made through the: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, D.C. 20240, or through the Tribal Headquarters, or by writing to: Department of the Interior-BIA Office of Education Programs, MS 3512, Code 522, 18th & C Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/29/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.