Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About About the Department Students & Career Enriched Learning Message from the Chair Ranked Programs Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Department of Anthropology About Anthropology: studying people and culture; applying knowledge to real world issues Anthropology is the study of humankind. Anthropologists employ prehistoric, historic, and contemporary perspectives to explore the culture, evolution, behavior, beliefs and social organization of peoples around the world. The discipline offers a comparative understanding of lifeways around the planet and seeks strategies for improving humans' quality of life in a global context. The University of Memphis offers a Bachelor of Arts and a Master of Arts in Anthropology. Students with diverse interests will find anthropology to be a stimulating major or minor. Anthropology courses also provide the perfect elective for students in other fields, such as international business, economics, sociology, communication, history, or education. Special programs available to undergraduate and graduate students include anthropological activities at the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa; opportunities to participate in faculty research in archaeology, urban communities, museum studies, and healthcare in the Mid-South; and internship experience in local museums and urban and medical agencies. The department also participates in the Honors Program, which challenges and recognizes exceptional undergraduate students. For the latest from our dynamic department, visit our News and Events page. Support the Department Alumni and community members support the work of the department through their generous gifts. See what a donation can do, and how you can contribute to either the general Department fund or to the Tim Bolding Award, which honors Tim's lifetime of helping students and our community. Mission, Vision, and Values Mission We, the faculty and students of the University of Memphis Department of Anthropology, are committed to applying our discipline to the understanding and potential redress of local, national, and international problems rooted in a lack of awareness of and/or respect for cultural difference. Faculty members draw from their publicly-engaged research to provide quality instruction and other forms of support for students seeking to effect positive change through anthropologically-informed careers. Vision To be among the leading applied anthropology programs in the country, preparing undergraduate and graduate students for career success in local, national, and global job markets. To apply anthropological theory and methods within individually-run and collaborative research projects geared toward understanding and potentially solving the complex social problems besetting the region, nation, and world. To ensure that students, through comprehensive study and application of anthropological theory, understand and value human diversity. To expand anthropological theory through insights from our applied work. Values Character and integrity. Acting with honesty and respect towards others. Scholarship. A commitment to academic rigor, critical inquiry, and interdisciplinary outreach in research and writing. Open, fair-mindedness. Celebrating our common humanity but also the many forms of human diversity. Defending the right to diversity through taking action against social injustice. Community engagement and service. Applying knowledge towards improving life on the local, national, and international level; working collaboratively with others to problem-solve. Education. Encouraging critical inquiry, lifelong learning, and civic engagement in our students. Sharing our skills and values not only with students but also the broader community. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.