Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Inside UMD News & Events Admissions Support UMD YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram Home Public Information Request Public Information Request The Maryland Public Information Act (PIA), gives the public the right to review and obtain copies of disclosable public records, except to the extent the records are protected from release because they fall within a statutorily recognized exemption to the law. Disclosable public records are only those made or received by a unit of State government in connection with the transaction of public business. In addition, the PIA does not require UM to answer informational questions or to create a record to satisfy a request. Your correspondence to the University making a request is itself a public record and may be asked for by other requesters, along with the University’s response. SUBMIT A REQUEST VIEW PDF PIA ACT MANUAL The PIA is found in the General Provisions Article, §§4-101 through 4-601, of the Annotated Code of Maryland, and accessible through the Maryland State Law Library at www.lawlib.state.md.us. The Maryland Office of the Attorney General provides a Public Information Act Manual which contains the law itself, along with narrative descriptions of the manner in which the law applies to different types of requests. The Manual is available to the public on-line, and provides meaningful assistance to members of the public and records custodians. For the table of contents and access to the complete Manual, click here. Information for University Units If you receive a request for documents, do not respond to the request yourself. If someone would like to file a request, you may direct them to our portal. Regardless of whether the request specifically cites Freedom of Information Act (FOIA, the federal equivalent) or Public Information Act (PIA), you should immediately forward the request to the UM Office of General Counsel. UM has 10 business days to acknowledge a request and a limited amount of time to provide records after a request is received, so acting promptly is important. Electronic mail messages and voice mail messages created during the transaction of public business are owned by the University and included in the definition of “public record.” This includes records created or housed on personal devices (mobile phones, tablets, email accounts, laptops etc.) If you have questions or need advice, contact the Office of General Counsel. Information for Requestors To review or obtain copies of University of Maryland, College Park records, you must make a written request under Maryland’s Public Information Act (“PIA”). Requests for information related to Undergraduate Admissions, Graduate Admissions or Transcripts should be directed to those particular offices. Requests for the University of Maryland, College Park may be filed via U.S. Mail or through our portal. Sending your request to an individual University employee will delay its receipt and processing. Public record requests for other schools within the University System of Maryland (USM) must be filed directly with that institution. For example, a request for the University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) cannot be filed with the College Park campus. When filing a request, be specific with respect to time frames, contents, and keywords. Inquiries should contain a targeted description of the record to enable the University to locate the requested record. Be simple, straightforward and precise. Requests which ask for “any and all” records without any other limiters typically result in vague and overbroad requests. In addition, processing such requests incurs high costs for the requester. Disclosable public records are only those made or received by a unit of State government in connection with the transaction of public business. Requests may be submitted at any time. However, requests can only be received when the University is open for business. The date of receipt is the date used for processing the inquiry. Upon receipt, the University will perform a preliminary assessment of your request to determine if the University is the appropriate custodian of the records. The University will also review the request for completeness. If the request is unclear or unreasonably broad, the University may request that the filer clarify or narrow the request. Requests are then placed in a queue of other public records requests. Other offices across campus which may have the records sought are notified about the request. This begins the process of identifying, collecting and reviewing potentially responsive materials to a filer. In certain cases, third parties with an interest may be consulted to process the inquiry. The PIA is not an automatic disclosure process; requests may be denied. There are circumstances when requests for public information may be denied because there is information which is not lawfully available to the public. This may include, for example, personnel records, student education records; records concerning on-going research; classified information; and information considered confidential commercial/financial information. The University may reject requests for student directory information (i.e. name, address, email address, phone number) when sought for a commercial purpose. In the procurement context, requests for the following will be denied: line-item pricing, unit price information, a successful bidder’s customer list, evaluation forms and/or score sheets and biographical data on key employees. In the research context, specific details of on-going research projects will not be disclosed. The General Provisions Article, §4-330 provides, “If the official custodian has adopted rules or regulations that define sociological information . . . a custodian shall deny inspection of the part of a public record which contains sociological information . . .” Thus, University’s Rules on Public Records Containing Sociological Information are intended to define the conditions under which Sociological Information shall be excluded from inspection and disclosure as part of a public record under Maryland’s Public Information Act. Your correspondence to the University making a request may itself a public record and can be requested by other filers, along with the University’s response. The University will respond as efficiently as possible based on factors including the availability of records, the complexity of the request, the volume of materials involved, the number of requests in the queue, and the time required to review the materials for possible redactions to protect the privacy rights of students or employees or other information deemed confidential under federal or state law. Our ultimate goal is to be responsive to each and every of the almost 500 requests received annually. Search & Preparation Fees Pursuant to Section 4-206, to the University may recover its costs for the actual time expended for the search, preparation, legal review and reproduction of records, to the fullest extent permitted by law. However, UM may not charge a fee for the first 2 hours that are needed to search for a public record and prepare it for inspection. Consequently, we encourage filers to be explicit and precise when drafting their requests. To offer the most efficient customer service, the University requires payment for any estimated amount due before the work is performed. The search, preparation and copying process will begin upon receipt of the total estimated fee. If the actual fee differs from the estimate, the fee will be adjusted accordingly, and you will receive an additional bill or refund as appropriate. Requesters will be notified in advance of any fees to be assessed prior to execution. The requester will then have an opportunity to revise or narrow the scope of a request to avoid or reduce actual costs. Please make your money order or check payable to the "University of Maryland" and send it to the Office of General Counsel. You may also hand-deliver this payment. The University does not accept cash through the mail, credit cards, or PayPal. If the University does not receive your payment within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of our reply, it will presume that you are no longer interested in pursuing your request and close the file accordingly. To obtain the documents, you must submit a new request. If a filer feels that the University has imposed an unreasonable fee (more than $350) to produce the responsive documents, the filer may seek assistance from the State Public Information Act Compliance Board (GP Section 4-1A-01 et seq.). Remedies Comments or questions for the University may be directed to: PublicInformationAct@umd.edu Filers who disagree with any response to a PIA request, may seek review of the decision in accordance with Section 4-362 of the PIA. In addition, they may seek assistance from the Public Access Ombudsperson under GP Section 4-1B-01 et seq. If a filer feels that the University has imposed an unreasonable fee (more than $350) to produce the responsive documents, the filer may seek assistance from the State Public Information Act Compliance Board (GP Section 4-1A-01 et seq.). Freedom of Information Act Occasionally an individual or entity will submit a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to a Federal Government agency, and the request will include copies of proposals submitted to funding agencies. If a Federal agency contacts you directly with a FOIA request, please immediately forward the request to the Office of Research Administration. Federal agencies often must operate on a 5-day turn-around for FOIA requests, so it is imperative that ORA and OGC work with you to protect from disclosure (1) any information that may give rise to patentable technology, or (2) information not currently known to others in the researcher’s field that if disclosed, could damage the researcher’s chances of publishing finding as an original and innovative contribution to the field. If you believe that portions of the documents should be withheld, provide your ORA Contract Administrator with the appropriate sections and/or page numbers and the rationale for withholding the information. ORA will work with OGC to prepare a letter requesting that the agency withhold this information from disclosure. Ownership of Emails and Other Records Maryland's Public Information Act (PIA), Md. Code Ann., General Provisions Article (“GP”) §§ 4- 101 through 4-601, grants a broad right of access to public records while protecting legitimate governmental interests and the privacy rights of individual citizens. As a result, a person can request access to University records and, unless the records fall within a list of exceptions to PIA, the University is required to disclose records that match the request. For instance, a requestor might request a copy of the University’s construction contract for new building or budget information. A requestor may ask for state employee email communications. UMD’s computing and digital information resources are the property of the State of Maryland and, as a result, are subject to the PIA. A requestor can even ask for a list of employees' salaries. However, a requestor cannot ask for a copy of an employee's personnel file or a list of employees' social security numbers and home addresses. Public Information Contact Name: Ms. L. Wright Address: Office of General Counsel, University of Maryland, College Park 2117 Seneca Bldg., College Park, MD 20742 Phone: 301-405-4945 Email: PublicInformationAct@umd.edu To e-File: www.umd.edu/pia Information for University Units Information for Requestors Search & Preparation Fees Remedies Freedom of Information Act Ownership of Emails and Other Records Public Information Contact Frequently Requested Materials Administration Alumni Association Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Management History & Mission HEOA/Consumer Information (FAQs) Maryland Merchandise MPowering the State Rankings and Fast Facts Sustainability UMD Commitment to Student Athletes Virtual Tour Visitors, Parents and Families About The University of Maryland, College Park is the state's flagship university and one of the nation's preeminent public research universities. A global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation, the university is home to more than 40,700 students, 14,000 faculty and staff, and nearly 400,000 alumni all dedicated to the pursuit of Fearless Ideas. Located just outside Washington, D.C., we discover and share new knowledge every day through our renowned research enterprise and programs in academics, the arts and athletics. And we are committed to social entrepreneurship as the nation’s first “Do Good” campus. DO GOOD Introducing The Nation's First Do Good Campus Transforming Idealism into Impact Academic Calendar Teaching & Learning Transformation Center College Park Scholars Global Maryland Honors College Libraries Majors and Minors Office of Extended Studies Provost Registrar Special Academic Programs Testudo (Student Portal) Undergraduate Catalog Academics Spanning 12 schools and colleges, Maryland offers more than 300 degree-granting programs, many of them ranked among the best in the country. Our faculty includes two Nobel laureates, three Pulitzer Prize winners, 58 members of the national academies and scores of Fulbright scholars. And our students, who include the highest achievers in the state and nation, enjoy experiences unique to our location just outside the nation’s capital, including internships, research, and leadership and service opportunities. Schools and Colleges Agriculture and Natural Resources Architecture, Planning and Preservation Arts and Humanities Behavioral and Social Sciences Business (Robert H. Smith) Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences Education Engineering (A. James Clark) Graduate School Journalism (Philip Merrill) Information Studies Public Health Public Policy Undergraduate Studies Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship Colleges and Schools Division of Research FIRE: The First-Year Innovation & Research Experience Innovation Gateway Research and Innovation The University of Maryland is one of the world’s premier research institutions. With our strategic location and scores of partnerships with government and businesses, UMD conducts groundbreaking research on some of the biggest challenges facing our global community, including cybersecurity and terrorism, bioengineering, public health equity, food safety and climate change. We strive to discover new knowledge and put it to work through innovation and entrepreneurship, advancing economic development and transforming lives. The newly launched Innovation Gateway will guide you to the resources, programs, partners, and spaces you need to activate and scale your fearless ideas into innovations that launch new ventures, catalyze growth, and advance economic development. College of Arts and Humanities School of Music School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center Michelle Smith Performing Arts Library School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation University of Maryland Center for Art and Knowledge at The Phillips Collection David C. Driskell Center DeVos Institute of Arts Management Galleries The Art & Learning Center at Stamp Arts At the University of Maryland, the arts, the humanities and the sciences intersect to address important societal issues and shed new light on the human experience. Our vibrant campus arts community collaborates with local and national cultural organizations such as the Phillips Collection, Kennedy Center and Folger Shakespeare Library. Student and faculty artists, designers, historians, writers and performers are exploring new media, presenting new perspectives, investigating new techniques and engaging new audiences. Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. June 4 7:30pm - 9:30pm Lopez-Gomez Returns with Tower, Ravel & Mussorgsky Intercollegiate Athletics University of Maryland Golf Course University Recreation and Wellness Athletics Home of the Terrapins, the University of Maryland has one of the nation’s most recognizable and successful athletics programs. More than 550 student-athletes compete each year in 20 intercollegiate sports—12 for women and eight for men. Since 2005 alone, Maryland has won 19 national championships, including NCAA titles in women’s basketball, men’s soccer, men's lacrosse, women’s lacrosse, and field hockey. Since joining the Big Ten Conference in 2014, UMD has won a combined 32 regular season and tournament championships. Fear the Turtle! Our Commitment to Student-Athletes At the University of Maryland, our commitment to the safety and well-being of our students is paramount and resolute. For our student-athletes, that means both on and off the field. The University of Maryland is committed to accountability, transparency, and fairness and is working to ensure our program upholds the values of our University. Learn more about our commitment. Book Center Career Center Counseling Center Dining Services Fraternity and Sorority Life Health Center Memorial Chapel Off-Campus Housing Resident Life Stamp Student Union Student Affairs Student Clubs Transportation Services University Recreation and Wellness Student Life The Terp experience extends beyond classrooms, labs and studios. It encompasses residence halls and dining halls, clubs and sports, fraternities and sororities, campus events and performances, and countless off-campus destinations. Maryland touts 800-plus student organizations, dozens of prestigious living and learning communities, and countless other ways to get involved. Students here can create a unique identity and grow as individuals, even as they’re part of a close-knit and diverse community. Latest information on Coronavirus Calendar Directories Map On Campus Keep Learning! Earn credits, satisfy a major requirement, and stay on track for graduation. Classes meet on campus or online. Convenient 3 or 6-week sessions, May 31 - August 19, 2022. Read More UMD Reflects / University Gathers Resources, Provides Updates And Takes Action To Combat Hate Read More Campus Alerts Campus Calendar Resources for News Media Terp Magazine UMD Right Now We Are UMD Weather Alerts News & Events News Latest news at Maryland Today For media releases visit UMD Right Now Coronavirus Updates: We have worked diligently to develop and enhance plans for reopening our campus while prioritizing the health and safety of our community members. Hundreds of faculty, staff and students have collaborated in work-groups and teams to create and maintain a physically distant, yet academically and socially rich environment for the fall semester. Our plans continue to be coordinated with state and county health officials, with additional guidance provided by the University System of Maryland. Latest 4 Maryland Updates Events June 3 9:30am - 11:30am NOI+F Open Rehearsal with Manuel Lopez-Gomez June 3 7:30pm - 9:30pm Take The Reins - Barber's Knoxville: Summer of 1915 June 4 6:30pm - 7:00pm NOI+F SPARK! Lounge with Elizabeth Massey, Ph.D. All Events Admissions Terps are bold, smart, curious and proud. We do good, in our communities and out in the world. We are fearless. And we are always looking to expand our ranks. Interested in becoming a University of Maryland student? This is where to start. Undergraduate Admissions Requirements Frequently Asked Questions 90+ Undergraduate Majors Graduate Admissions Admissions Process Graduate Programs Financial Aid Visit Contact Us Search Search keyword or phrase Campus Resources Accessibility Campus Calendar Campus Map Directories Human Resources Policies and Procedures Student Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Testudo (Student Portal) Technical Support Change Password Division of IT Get IT Support Giving to Maryland Give to Maryland Giving back is a fearless Terp tradition, and there are many ways you can not only keep it alive, but also make an instant impact. Give Now Support the Clark Challenge for the Maryland Promise Scholarship and double your impact through the Clark Challenge. University of Maryland on YouTube University of Maryland on Facebook University of Maryland on Twitter University of Maryland on Instagram The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland College Park, MD 20742, USA · 301.405.1000 Information for Visitors, Parents and Families FAQs (HEOA/Consumer Information) Contact Us Careers Issues Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Web Accessibility Policies and Procedures Public Records Request Privacy Notice Report Fraud and Waste MPowering the State ×