Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Government Relations and Policy Staff Local Government State Government Federal Government Advocate for UofM Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Advocate for the UofM Contact Us Home Government Relations and Policy Contact Us Contact Katie VanLandingham Chief Government Relations and Policy Officer Phone: 901.678.5561 E-mail: K.L.V@memphis.edu VanLandingham joined the UofM from JohnsonPossKirby Government Relations in Nashville, Tennessee, where she was a senior associate. In her role, she worked with legislators, administration officials and personnel from various departments on behalf of a broad range of business-related clients. During her time at JohnsonPossKirby, VanLandingham also handled all client management, including the firm's ethics and campaign finance initiatives, PACs, registrations, expenditures and audit reports. As senior director of government relations and policy, VanLandingham handles direct lobbying and relationship-building with policymakers and staff, analyzing policies and coordinating legislative efforts for the University; on local, state, and federal levels. VanLandingham has also served as the executive director of the Tennessee Intercollegiate State Legislature, governing the board of the organization to ensure its financial stability. Coordinating with corporate partners and collegiate leadership, she ensured the organization's mission was successfully carried out through strategic planning, programs and outreach. VanLandingham graduated from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, but the Tigers don't hold it against her. She was previously a board member for the Tennessee Lobbyist Association and continues to partner with the organization. Cody Fletcher Director, Local Government Relations and District Operations Phone: 901.678.5561 E-Mail: cody.fletcher@memphis.edu Office: UMRF Research Park, 460 S. Highland St. A lifelong Memphian, Cody joined The University of Memphis in 2018 to lead economic development efforts in the University District. This includes managing all aspects of the Highland Revitalization TIF, a $21,000,000 public infrastructure improvements program. He also guides the University Neighborhoods Development Corporation (UNDC), a non-profit laboratory community development organization that seeks to build a thriving campus and community environment by improving the physical and economic infrastructure of the University District. Additionally, Cody represents the University at the local government level, where he communicates and advocates UM priorities to government officials, including legislative bodies, boards, and commissions. Cody is active in the community, serving as a member of the University Schools Advisory Board, Blight Elimination Steering Team, and previously as Vice President of the East Buntyn Neighborhood Association. Prior to joining The University of Memphis, Cody worked in the non-profit sector as a development specialist. Cody holds a Bachelor's Degree in Economics from The University of Memphis. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.