Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Sexual Harassment Policies Get Help Get Help Medical care Confidential help Academic and campus help Help for faculty and staff How faculty and staff can help students Report Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Learn More Learn More SMU Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sexual assault and consent Definitions and examples Campus security Message from President Turner SMU Task Force Get involved Get involved Education and prevention Awareness tips Request a presentation Resources ☰ Sexual Harassment Report Report to police Reporting to police and pursuing criminal charges SMU urges anyone who has experienced sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence or stalking to alert police as soon as possible. SMU campus authorities can provide assistance in notifying law enforcement authorities, at the victim’s request. Sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence and stalking are crimes punishable under Texas law by imprisonment. These acts also are violations of the federal law Title IX and of SMU's Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy. To contact police On campus: SMU Police can be reached by calling 911 from a campus phone or 214-768-3333 from a cell phone; or by picking up a blue-light phone on campus at any time of day or night. Off-campus: Students should call 911 to reach police in that jurisdiction or call 214-768-3333 to reach SMU Police, who can connect callers with police in the appropriate jurisdiction. Crime victims have the right to choose to talk to police when they feel ready to do so, and also can choose to decline involvement with the police. SMU urges victims to notify police as soon as possible. Reporting an incident to police does not automatically lead to criminal charges being filed or criminal prosecution. However, when a victim immediately reports an incident, police are better able to collect evidence that may be helpful in building a criminal case, even if the victim decides to wait until a later date to pursue criminal charges. In addition, a student will have input about his or her case after talking with police. The investigation SMU is committed to responding to reports in a timely and respectful manner. When a victim makes a report to SMU Police, the police will request information about the circumstances of the incident and the alleged perpetrator in order to aid the investigation and build a criminal case. In their operations and criminal investigations, SMU Police follow state and federal rules of procedure and evidence. The investigation conducted by SMU Police can include gathering evidence and witness statements, and obtaining search warrants and arrest warrants from a judge. A crime alert is issued by campus email if SMU determines there is imminent danger, or the likelihood of a continuing danger, against which the campus community needs to be warned, or if an alert would aid in the prevention of similar crimes in the future. Crime alerts also are posted online at smu.edu/Aware and smu.edu/police. SMU Police notify the Dallas County District Attorney’s Office or other appropriate external law enforcement agency when a case of sexual assault has been reported and is under investigation. Pursuing criminal charges When a victim decides to pursue criminal charges, a prosecutor in the District Attorney’s Office determines whether sufficient evidence exists to press charges, after SMU Police have presented the findings of their investigation. The District Attorney then presents the case to a grand jury to obtain an indictment and proceed with a trial. SMU Police are available to counsel and accompany students through the criminal process. In addition, when a case of sexual harassment is reported to SMU Police, the police notify the SMU Title IX Coordinator, as required by state and federal law. The SMU Title IX Coordinator will provide information about the victim’s option to pursue an SMU grievance process under University policy, in addition to the criminal process. Report Report to police Report to SMU Report anonymously Report retaliation Protective orders Resources In case of emergency or for criminal reporting, please call SMU Police, 214-768-3333, or pick up a blue-light phone on campus. Confidential Resources SMU Counseling Services 214-768-2277 SMU Chaplain’s Office 214-768-4502 Additional SMU resources SMU Title IX Coordinator (for internal grievance information and reporting) 214-768-3601 Office of Student Advocacy & Support 214-768-4512 Anonymous reporting 214-768-2TIP (2847) Community resources Dallas Area Rape Crisis Center (DARCC) 972-641-7273 Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) Program 214-345-6203 Learn more about resources. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share