Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Global Brown Home About Campus Resources Learn Abroad Research Abroad Travel Resources FAQ Updates Site Navigation Home About Campus Resources Learn Abroad Research Abroad Travel Resources FAQ Updates Updates Update on Visitors Policy Wed Nov 18 The University continues to carefully and thoughtfully consider the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic for non-degree and visiting exchange students, visiting instructors and researchers, and general visitors to campus. We write with an update on guidance for campus visitors. Read more Office of Global Engagement opposes and urges Department of Homeland Security to withdraw proposed rule Mon Oct 26 October 26, 2020 Acting Regulatory Unit Chief Sharon Hageman Office of Policy and Planning United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Department of Homeland Security 500 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20536 Re: DHS Docket No. ICEB-2019-0006 Dear Acting Chief Hageman: Read more DHS Proposal to Eliminate Duration of Status (D/S) Admission for F and J Visa Holders Thu Oct 1 Dear International Students and Scholars, On September 25, 2020, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) published a proposed non-immigrant visa rule that, if implemented, would adversely impact international students and scholars on F-1 and J-1 visas, and their dependent family members on F-2 and J-2 visas. Read more Reversal of Recent International Student Visa Restrictions Tue Jul 14 Higher education communities across the United States, and the international students they serve, experienced great relief and an important victory today when it was announced that the federal government would rescind the July 6 Student Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement policy directive calling for visa restrictions for international students taking online-only courses at U.S. colleges and universities this fall. As a result, the U.S. Government will return to the previous guidance issued on March 9 and March 13, 2020. Read more Amicus Brief Mon Jul 13 On Sunday, July 12, Brown University joined 58 additional colleges and universities in filing an amicus brief in support of legal action by Harvard University (Harvard) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to block new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP). Issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on July 6, this guidance will prohibit international students from returning to or remaining in the United States if their colleges adopt online-only instruction for Fall 2020, or if students choose online-only instruction, due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read more Letter from President Paxson: Supporting Brown’s International Students Wed Jul 8 President Christina H. Paxson wrote to the campus community about University opposition to new federal guidance on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program and how Brown can best support its international students. Read more SEVP Guidance for Fall 2020 Tue Jul 7 On Monday, July 6, the Student Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement announced modifications to temporary exemptions for non-immigrant students that were put in place in the spring during the transition to remote learning due to COVID-19. Read more June 22nd Executive Order Impact on Immigration Tue Jun 23 On Monday, June 22, 2020, President Trump signed a new “Proclamation Suspending Entry of Aliens Who Present a Risk to the U.S. Labor Market Following the Coronavirus Outbreak.” Below is a summary of the immediate consequences of the proclamation. Read more Presidential Proclamation Regarding Entry of Some Chinese Graduate Students and Visiting Scholars Wed Jun 3 On Friday, May 29, 2020, President Trump signed a Presidential Proclamation on the Suspension of Entry as Nonimmigrants of Certain Students and Researchers from the People’s Republic of China, which may prohibit certain nationals from the People’s Republic of China seeking entry in F or J visa status to pursue graduate study or research at Brown University. It is important to note that details on the implementation of the proclamation have not yet emerged. Nonetheless, we are closely monitoring this situation and will post updates to the community on this website as they become available. Read more Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top