Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Africology and African American Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Africology and African American Studies Major Apply Request More Info Africology and African American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Africology and African American Studies Learn to conduct research, think critically and facilitate conversations essential to understanding, appreciating and promoting African culture with the Bachelor of Arts in Africology and African American Studies in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 123-credit multidisciplinary undergraduate degree program invites students to study the cultures, history and politics of Africa, its countries and its people. The curriculum is Afrocentric, so all courses explore academic topics from the standpoint of African agency in economic, political, psychological and social contexts, among many others. You’ll engage in critical discourse on subjects like class, ethnicity, gender and race, and their relevance throughout history and in today’s society. Students in the Africology and African American Studies Department have the unique opportunity to contribute to the Journal of Black Studies, the top peer-reviewed publication in the academic discipline; connect with local, national and international African communities; learn from and research alongside highly esteemed faculty; and study abroad in Ghana. Students can also see firsthand the topics they study in Temple’s Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection—one of the most prestigious collections of African American artifacts in the United States. It houses over 500,000 items on the global black experience dating from 1581 to the present. The program will also delve into African American culture, examining how it has developed into a rich and unique community over the centuries. Graduates are prepared to pursue master’s or doctoral degree programs across an array of professions including the health sciences, law and the social sciences. Graduates have also gone on to work in arts and culture, primary and secondary education, social work and administration, research design, and more. Africology and African American Studies Department Temple’s Africology and African American Studies Department is one of the oldest of similar programs in the nation and was the first to offer a doctoral degree in the field. Emerging during the Black Power Movement, the program was created to serve as an academic platform from which students could combat racism, discrimination and oppression. In the 1990s, the department initiated the Temple Circle, a team of scholars that defined the key theoretical and philosophical bases for the study of African phenomena. Today, the Africology and African American Studies Department and Temple University remain as committed as ever to this mission. Temple is home to more African American students than any other university in the Northeast, and it’s this diversity and sense of global community that sets the university apart. Classes & Curriculum The Africology and African American Studies Major curriculum includes a combination of general education, global studies, elective and degree program-specific courses. The following courses are required to earn your bachelor’s degree. African Civilization Afrocentricity Black Folklore: African and African American Introduction to Africology Introduction to Research Methods Tupac Shakur and the Hip Hop Revolution Learn more about Africology and African American Studies Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Africology and African American Studies MA Africology and African American Studies PhD Anthropology PhD Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD History MA History PhD Sociology MA Sociology PhD Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For questions regarding the Africology and African American Studies Major, contact the following staff member. Belinda Wilson is the administrator in the Africology and African American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: belinda.wilson@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Africology and African American Studies Department. Molefi Kete Asante is chair of the Africology and African American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-4322 Email: masante@temple.edu Nilgün Anadolu-Okur is the director of undergraduate studies in the Africology and African American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8513 Email: anadolu@temple.edu Tammey Abner is the program coordinator in the Africology and African American Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8491 Email: tammey.abner@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Africology and African American Studies Major coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Africology and African American Studies Major. The Organization of African Students aims to unite African students, promote and maintain African cultures, and increase African political and social awareness among the Temple community. The Society of Emerging African Leaders is comprised of individuals who have a common goal of empowering the African continent with the leadership skills necessary for Africa as a whole to compete globally. The NABA Temple University Chapter supports and encourages minorities to enter and excel in many different fields of business such as accounting, finance and management information systems. It implements local and national programs that work to develop members’ professional skills. Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity Inc., Epsilon Chapter, is a collegiate and professional fraternity, founded at Howard University in Washington, D.C., in 1914. The fraternity focuses on promoting inclusivity, service and scholarship. Visit Owl Connect to learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your experience at Temple by immersing yourself in the historical, literary, cultural and linguistic bases of West African civilization in Temple’s summer study abroad program in Ghana. The six-week program is based in the country’s capital and coastal city of Accra at the University of Ghana. Learn more about the summer study abroad program. Accreditation The Department of Africology and African American Studies is accredited by the National Council for Black Studies (NCBS). NCBS was established in 1975 by African American scholars who recognized the need to formalize the study of the African experience, as well as expand and strengthen academic units and community programs devoted to this endeavor. Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-AAAS-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Africology and African American Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info