Skip To Content Skip To Navigation University of Notre Dame 2016 Notre Dame Year in Review Menu The year 2016 saw historic firsts and groundbreaking achievements from our faculty, students and for the University as a whole. The year began with a week of events that challenged the Notre Dame community to take the next step in becoming a more inclusive and diverse community. As the year drew to a close, those ideals took on new meaning as the campus gathered to reflect on a tumultuous election season. In between, our research enterprise marked new heights in both funding and in the opening of facilities that will become venues for achievement in the future. Below are selected stories that paint the picture of 2016 at Notre Dame. University News Research International Faith From the Academy University News Walk the Walk Week at Notre Dame: Let us march forward in love It was midnight, and the snow and wind chill made for formidable conditions, but that didn’t deter some 1,000 students, faculty, staff and guests from gathering in the University of Notre Dame’s Main Building Rotunda for a candlelight prayer service to begin the University’s "Walk the Walk Week" in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. View Article U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ginsburg speaks at Notre Dame In a reflective, frank and often wryly humorous conversation with U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the justice offered insights into her upbringing, judicial philosophy and hopes for the future of the court. View Article Biden and Boehner jointly receive Laetare Medal In recognition of their leadership, civility and dedication to our nation, Vice President Joe Biden and former Speaker of the House John Boehner received the 2016 Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor accorded to American Catholics. View Article Discussing the debates: The 2016 Notre Dame Forum The University of Notre Dame examined the presidential campaign through the lens of debates past and present during its 2016 Notre Dame Forum. The event, entitled “Debating our Future,” was moderated by Notre Dame’s president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. View Article Notre Dame and Vatican Library formalize agreement The University of Notre Dame and the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, or Vatican Library, formalized a unique agreement of collaboration and exchange. Notre Dame president Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., and Archbishop Jean-Louis Bruguès, O.P., archivist and librarian of the Holy Roman Church, together signed a memorandum of understanding. View Article Father Jenkins signs ‘It’s On Us’ pledge “It’s On Us” is an awareness campaign to help put an end to sexual assault on college campuses. Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. signed the pledge in October. The Notre Dame initiative began four months later and includes a video in which Father Jenkins and others appear. View Article Notre Dame to implement ‘ambitious, realistic’ sustainability plan On September 20, University of Notre Dame President Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., accepted a committee’s recommendations for creating a comprehensive sustainability strategy for the University that is at once “ambitious and yet realistic.” View Article Richard Notebaert named recipient of first Hesburgh-Stephan Medal Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C.: Charge to the Class of 2016 IDEA Center created to catalyze new research, innovation, commercialization initiatives Poet Laureate Juan Felipe Herrera visits Notre Dame Notre Dame endowment pool at $10.4 billion for fiscal year 2016 Johnson promoted to senior director of campus safety; Shibata appointed NDSP police chief In Memoriam: Notre Dame historian Rev. Marvin R. O’Connell Major Gifts Dunne and Flaherty families each make $20 million gifts for construction of two residence halls Jimmy and Susan Dunne of New York City and Jay and Mary Flaherty of Los Angeles each made $20 million gifts to the University of Notre Dame for the construction of two new residence halls on campus. Dunne Hall for men and Flaherty Hall for women will opened in August. View Article Canadian couple endows Notre Dame men’s basketball coaching position Callaghans make $3 million gift to endow men’s tennis head coaching position Ricci family’s $5 million gift will support marching band and RecSports Quinn family provides $5 million gift for Phase II of Innovation Park McGraths endow Institute for Church Life with $15 million gift Research Newly discovered star offers opportunity to explore origins of first stars sprung to life in early universe A team of researchers observed the brightest ultra metal-poor star ever discovered. The star is a rare relic from the Milky Way’s formative years. View Article Building a better phone A team at the Notre Dame Wireless Institute is leading a three-year, $1.2 million investigation into how to improve the performance of cell phones while also reducing the potentially harmful radiation the phones expose our bodies to. View Article Notre Dame researchers to lead NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity study University of Notre Dame biologist Jeffrey Feder will lead a team of researchers funded by a new $2 million grant from the Dimensions of Biodiversity program of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to examine how when one insect shifts its season it allows others to follow and generates new biodiversity. View Article Notre Dame holds ribbon cutting for new Turbomachinery Laboratory The University and its project partners unveiled a vision for the new Notre Dame Turbomachinery Laboratory (NDTL), a high-powered research laboratory to analyze and advance the technology of gas turbine engines used for jet aircraft, power generation plants and the oil and gas industry. View Article Going green is for girls — but branding can make men eco-friendly Studies show that men are not as environmentally friendly as women. Let’s face it, not too many “man caves” feature solar panels, recycle bins or posters of electric cars. It’s just not manly. View Article Momentum builds for creation of 'moon villages' Engineer receives $2 million DOE energy grant to study capture of CO2 ND-ECI names new managing director Annual research funding at Notre Dame tops $128 million Can performance brands cause a placebo effect? High energy physics group receives NSF grant Spider web research shows promise for noninvasive genetic sampling Researchers begin high-tech study of Vatican courtyard International Father Jenkins reflects on past, present and future collaboration with Brazil in São Paulo speech In a speech March 11 at the American Chamber of Commerce in São Paulo, Brazil, University of Notre Dame President Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., discussed the importance of Catholic education in an era of corruption and injustice, the University’s vision for growth in the country and its research related to the Zika virus. View Article A transformative journey: Notre Dame experiences life at the border A dozen Notre Dame faculty members and community partners from South Bend went to Tucson, Arizona, to hear migrants’ stories during a four-day Mexican Border Immersion seminar in early January. View Article Father Jenkins leads University delegation to South America University of Notre Dame President Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., will lead a University delegation on a week-long trip to three South American countries in order to strengthen relationships and grow Notre Dame’s presence in academic, Church and government sectors there. View Article Michel Hockx, scholar of Chinese literary and Internet culture, appointed director of Liu Institute for Asia and Asian Studies Master of Global Affairs degree now available from Notre Dame’s new Keough School of Global Affairs Columbia University dean appointed vice president and associate provost for internationalization Peace wager: Law expert assists with negotiations in Colombia Global affairs scholar Tamara Kay to join Notre Dame’s new Keough School of Global Affairs Gala premiere of Keough-Naughton Institute’s documentary series, '1916: The Irish Rebellion,' held at Notre Dame Faith Notre Dame gathers for Interfaith prayer service following election Following an acrimonious election season, the University of Notre Dame invited the campus community to take part in an interfaith prayer service on November 14 to pray for peace for the nation, wisdom for leaders and care for the most vulnerable. View Article Crossroads of America: Notre Dame in Cuba following Pope’s visit Notre Dame students and scholars spent part of their fall break in Cuba to discuss the impact of Pope Francis' visits to South America and the United States. View Article Rev. Joseph Corpora appointed Missionary of Mercy by Pope Francis Rev. Joseph Corpora, C.S.C., director of university-school partnerships for the University of Notre Dame’s Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), received a mandate from Pope Francis to be a Missionary of Mercy. View Article Carter Snead, director of Center for Ethics and Culture, named to Pontifical Academy for Life Carter Snead, William P. and Hazel B. White Director of the University of Notre Dame’s Center for Ethics and Culture and professor of law, was appointed to the Pontifical Academy for Life, the pope’s principal advisory group on the promotion of the consistent ethic of life in the Catholic Church. View Article Long Crescendo Following the genesis of a handcrafted pipe organ for the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. View Article Notre Dame and Vatican Library to celebrate new collaboration Paolo Carozza, director of Kellogg Institute, appointed to Vatican academy by Pope Francis McGrath Institute for Church Life receives $1.675 million to train science and religion teachers A new movement for sacred music From the Academy Record 30 students and alumni win Fulbright Awards for 2016-2017 Forty-eight current University of Notre Dame students and alumni have been recognized by the Fulbright U.S. Student Program for grants taking place in 2016-17, with 30 finalists, eight alternates and 10 semifinalists named. View Article Grace Watkins and Alexis Doyle named Rhodes Scholars University of Notre Dame seniors Christa Grace Watkins and Alexis Doyle have been selected to the United States Rhodes Scholar Class of 2017. This marks the first time Notre Dame has had Rhodes Scholars in three consecutive years and the third time the University has had two in a single year. View Article Pamela Nolan Young named director for academic diversity and inclusion Pamela Nolan Young brings more than 25 years of experience to the University in the areas of diversity and inclusion, equal opportunity, education and law. View Article Thomson Reuters names 5 Notre Dame faculty among the top 1 percent of highly cited scholars Notre Dame junior wins New York Times journalism contest Women lead: Profiles of six pre-eminent faculty members Fourteen Fulbright finalists place Notre Dame among top-producing universities in US Juniors Caleb Pine and Christa Grace Watkins named 2016 Truman Scholars Abby Davis named 2016 valedictorian; Stephen Schafer chosen as salutatorian Notre Dame’s Medieval Institute names Thomas E. Burman as new director In the Mind's Eye: Rare book helps to bring Shakespeare to life Ted Barron appointed executive director of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Bryan Richie appointed Associate Vice President of Innovation Top Photos of 2016 Copyright © 2016 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone 574-631-5000 Accessibility Information