Center for Global Health navigationMENU About Us Mission Team Penn Global Health Community Global Health Student Advisory Council (GHSAC) CGH Branding Our Work Where We Work Regional Centers of Engagement Global Health Imperatives Penn Medicine Ukraine Relief Portal Scholars Become a CGH Scholar Current CGH Scholars Education & Training Penn Med Students Penn MPH Students Clinical Residents & Fellows International Trainees & Scholars Global Health Mentorship Funding & Resources Funding Opportunities CGH Research Support Services Online Global Health Resources International Research Career Development Travel COVID-19 Travel Guidance Global Health Experience Procedures Travel Logistics Travel Health & Safety Giving Make a Gift FAQ PENN MEDICINE UKRAINE RELIEF PORTAL CURRENT COVID-19 PSOM TRAVEL POLICY Center for Global Health   Penn Center for Global Health on YouTube   Penn Center for Global Health on Twitter   Join Mailing List for Penn Center for Global Health DONATE About Us Mission Team Penn Global Health Community Global Health Student Advisory Council (GHSAC) CGH Branding Our Work Where We Work Regional Centers of Engagement Global Health Imperatives Penn Medicine Ukraine Relief Portal Scholars Become a CGH Scholar Current CGH Scholars Education & Training The Philadelphia skyline. This city is home to many exciting innovations in global health. Penn Med Students Penn MPH Students Clinical Residents & Fellows International Trainees & Scholars Global Health Mentorship Funding & Resources Funding Opportunities CGH Research Support Services Online Global Health Resources International Research Career Development Travel COVID-19 Travel Guidance Global Health Experience Procedures Travel Logistics Travel Health & Safety Giving Make a Gift FAQ Move to previous slide Move to next slide Building Effective Global Health Partnerships Wednesdays | April 6th - June 8th Join the Center for Global Health for our free virtual spring 2022 seminar series, as our presenters discuss their global health partnerships. Learn more about CGH's Spring Seminar Series RegistrationEvent FlyerEvent Recordings Robert Suskind & Leslie Lewinter-Suskind Faculty Global Health Award, 2022 Honoring Nahreen Ahmed, MD, MPH Dr. Nahreen Ahmed is being awarded the Robert Suskind & Leslie Lewinter; Suskind Faculty Prize in Global Health. A virtual celebration honoring Dr.Ahmed will be announced shortly. Dr. Nahreen's Bio Penn Medicine Ukraine Relief Portal PENN MEDICINE'S RESPONSE Learn more about Penn Medicine's Response by visiting our Ukraine Relief Portal, for which a link can be found below. Relief Portal Use arrow keys to view slides View: Full Scholars List   CGH Map   Programs and Partnerships No results Botswana-UPenn Partnership other Programs & Partnerships   Clinical Rotation | Capacity-building | Academic Partnerships   Botswana BWA other Nahreen H. Ahmed, MD, MPH Nahreen H. Ahmed, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Radiology | Technology in Low Resource Settings | Critical care   Bangladesh | Colombia | Yemen | United States | Peru BGD||COL||YEM||USA||PER BIO STATEMENT: I am a second generation Bangladeshi-American, born in the US but with close ties in Dhaka, Bangladesh where I have paired with Dhaka Medical College and Hospital in a teaching endeavor in the area of Critical Care Ultrasound and curriculum development. My current role at HUP is not only in the area of clinical activities in Critical Care but also the role of faculty instructor in the area of Critical Care Ultrasound. person Marietta Ambrose, MD, MPH, FACC Marietta Ambrose, MD, MPH, FACC Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Global Cardiovascular Disease   Haiti | Vietnam | United States | Jamaica HTI||VNM||USA||JAM BIO STATEMENT: I am a cardiologist with additional training in advanced cardiovascular imaging and women’s health, and an interest in improving global cardiovascular health. I am the director of Penn Cardiology International (University of Pennsylvania Cardiology Division’s International Outreach Section), and I lead its effort to contribute to improving global cardiovascular health. We develop relationships with mutually aligned institutions, to create sustainable programs and infrastructure that are aimed at delivery of excellent cardiovascular care. Our active collaborations with our global community members occur through research, education, training and clinical activity. person Tomas Andersen, MD, MPH Tomas Andersen, MD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Preventable Blindness | Vision impairment | Eye care   Botswana | United States BWA||USA BIO STATEMENT: Tomas Andersen is a medical intern at Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He pursued public health training during medical school to combine his long-standing interest in community engagement with his clinical interest in ophthalmology. For his MPH capstone project, he created a survey to screen for vision-related quality of life in homeless populations. Dr Andersen also spent two months in Botswana with the local leadership team of an eye health organization called Peek Vision, focusing on visual acuity screening for schoolchildren. He hopes to continue to work with organizations locally and internationally to develop interventions to address preventable blindness. person Tonya Arscott-Mills, MD, MPH Tonya Arscott-Mills, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Research Director | Botswana-UPenn Partnership   Pediatrics | HIV/AIDS | Tuberculosis   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: I am a pediatric global health practitioner. Since 2008 I have been working in Botswana with the University of Pennsylvania. My roles have involved training health care workers on TB and HIV and pediatrics; assisting in Botswana health policy making in the areas of TB/HIV and providing clinical care for pediatrics, TB and HIV. Currently I am also the Botswana-UPenn Partnership Research Director and Penn CFAR International Core co-director. In this role support faculty interested and engaged in research in Botswana. I am also the CHOP pediatric lead for Botswana, supporting the CHOP partnership in Botswana. person Sania Ashraf, PhD Sania Ashraf, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Research Scientist   Health Behavior | Maternal Child Health | Infectious disease   Bangladesh | India BGD||IND BIO STATEMENT: As a global health epidemiologist, Dr. Ashraf uses mixed research methods to design, test and evaluate the impact of context-specific interventions in low-income communities to improve health outcomes. Her research specializes in childhood diseases, and water, sanitation, hygiene (WASH) focused studies. Currently, her research is using a community based randomized trial to investigate how social norms can be leveraged to improve sanitation practices in India. She has previously worked on global health studies focused on childhood infectious diseases including diarrhea, respiratory illness, malaria and rotavirus vaccines in Bangladesh, Kenya, Philippines and India. person Stephen Avery, PhD Stephen Avery, PhD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology | University of Pennsylvania   Radiology | Quality Improvement   Tanzania, United Republic of | United States TZA||USA BIO STATEMENT: My goal is to develop a USA/Africa Radiation Oncology Core (ROC) dedicated to Research Education/training in Radiation oncology in Africa and providing desperately needed quality assurance tools for patient safety and research collaborations for cancer control. The establishment of such an ROC will significantly increase research/education capacity and ensure radiation/patient safety. International collaboration is necessary for such a Core to build research/education capacity and address an ongoing silent crises which is undoubtedly causing significant loss of life and disability in Africa. A successful launch of this Core program will provide a hub for Radiation Oncology research/education in east Africa. person Sila Bal MD, MPH Sila Bal MD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Clinical Fellow in Ophthalmology | Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary   Vision impairment | Eye care   Ecuador | United States ECU||USA BIO STATEMENT: I was taught to see the world through a global perspective from a very young age and was fortunate to spend time working with NGOs during my undergraduate years. This soon translated into my passion for medicine and I continued to work with international groups during medical school. This background led to my pursuit of an MPH with a concentration in global health and I hope to continue working on global solutions to eye care through strengthening international partnerships and agenda setting. person Timothy Becker, MD Timothy Becker, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician   Immigrant health | Adolescent health | HIV/AIDS | substance abuse | Mental health   Botswana | Chile | Liberia BWA||CHL||LBR BIO STATEMENT: Tim Becker is a psychiatry resident in the global mental health track at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. He has longstanding interests in understanding social and cultural determinants of health and improving access to quality health services. During medical school at Penn, he spent two research blocks in Botswana, initially developing a head trauma database, and later qualitatively investigating explanatory models and stigma related to mental illness. In residency he has been involved with immigrant mental health evaluations, remote supervision of mental health nurses in Liberia, and numerous studies on cross-cultural stigma. person Rinad Beidas, PhD Rinad Beidas, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Associate Professor, Psychiatry | University of Pennsylvania   Implementation research | Evidence-based Practices   Mozambique | Zambia MOZ||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: I am an implementation scientist and clinical psychologist whose primary career goals are to (1) improve behavioral health and the quality of behavioral health services for traditionally underserved patients; and (2) advance the study of methods to promote the systematic uptake of research findings and other evidence-based practices into routine practice to improve the quality and effectiveness of health services (i.e., implementation science). Recently, I have become interested in extending my domestic work in implementation science to global settings such as Zambia and Mozambique. person Hannah Bergbower, MSN, MPH, CNM, WHNP-BC Hannah Bergbower, MSN, MPH, CNM, WHNP-BC Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Adjunct Associate Professor | Tufts University School of Medicine   Neonatal and Maternal Mortality | Maternal Child Health | Capacity-building   Bangladesh | Malawi | New Zealand | Tanzania, United Republic of BGD||MWI||NZL||TZA BIO STATEMENT: Hannah Bergbower, MSN, MPH, CNM, WHNP-BC is a double-board certified Nurse Practitioner and Nurse-Midwife with a special focus on inequities and the social and behavioral determinants of public health. She currently provides full scope midwifery and women's health care services at Dekalb OB GYN Affiliates in Atlanta, Georgia. She has spent most of the last decade focusing on programming and implementation of public health and clinical programs in vulnerable settings domestically and internationally. She has extensive on the ground international capacity building experience in countries throughout South East Asia, Central Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. She has developed, implemented and led programs within humanitarian crisis and response settings, as well as stable host community contexts. Hannah has focused on interdisciplinary program development and gender equity, working with organizations such as WHO, UNFPA, IOM, ISCG, UNHCR, DOD, DTRA, other NGO and government organizations, and Ministries of Health. Her work has focused on bringing care access and quality programming to vulnerable and low-resource contexts with the greatest need, with a special focus on policy and the impacts of resource allocation on outcomes. She has extensive experience teaching and training and has held multiple academic appointments in and outside of the United States. Her current appointments include Tufts University School of Medicine and the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Center for Global Health. Hannah is an active member of the American College of Nurse-Midwives National Government Affairs Committee and World Health Organization & Women in Global Health Gender Equity Hub. She also currently serves as a member of the March of Dimes National Volunteer Leadership Council and as a Subject Matter Expert on the March of Dimes National Advisory Committee for the Mom and Baby Action Network. person Kevin Braat, MD Kevin Braat, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Physician | ENT and Allergy Associates, LLP   Clinical care   Guyana | Zambia GUY||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: Kevin Braat, MD, graduated from Bucknell University with a BA in Chemistry in 1994, the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine in 1989 and completed his otolaryngology residency at the University of Pennsylvania in 2004. Kevin is currently a partner with ENT and Allergy Associates, LLP and practices general otolaryngology in Southampton, New York. For more than 10 years, Kevin has been associated with several humanitarian groups providing health care in a variety of settings in Africa and South America. Kevin’s global health interests are now focused on supplementing local resources, providing surgical equipment and supplies, and physician training in Kitwe, Zambia and Guyana, South America. He is currently involved with training a Guyanese otolaryngologist in Georgetown, Guyana. person Kent D. Bream, MD Kent D. Bream, MD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Clinical Family Medicine and Community Health | University of Pennsylvania   Non-communicable disease | Health Disparities | International Medical Education | Diabetes | Community health | Community Engagement   Guatemala | United States GTM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Bream is a family physician who works in collaborative research, education, and clinical projects locally and globally with particular attention to underserved communities. He is known for productive and trusting professional relationships with the political, organizational, and social leaders building bridges between academia and communities. His approach focuses on the inter-professional solutions and respect for dual autonomies in improving health. He leads the Guatemala Penn Partners program and started the Guatemala Health Initiative with students in 2004. Clinically he has focused on non-communicable diseases, especially diabetes, with great respect for the role of personal agency in changing outcomes. person Merrian J. Brooks, MD Merrian J. Brooks, MD Scholar Scholar   Director of Pediatrics and Research at Botswana UPenn Partnership; Attending Physician of Adolescent Medicine Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia   global adolescent health | global health equity | Health Equity | professional research development | Health Disparities   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Brooks is a graduate of the Ohio University Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine and holds a master in clinical sciences on comparative research and health disparities from the University of Pittsburgh. She completed a residency in pediatrics from Cooper University Hospital and a clinical fellowship in adolescent medicine at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. During her time in Botswana she has performed a multitude of critical tasks, such as working as a pediatrics specialist at Princess Marina Hospital, consulting in adolescent clinics, training and mentoring UB MMed and medical students, and advising on the health needs of adolescents in the policy making arena. Additionally, Dr. Brooks has focused her research and scholarship on the development and evaluation of interventions that seek to reduce anxiety and depression in adolescents living with HIV through counseling and peer support. Since her arrival in Botswana, Dr. Brooks has proved herself to be an outstanding clinician and educator, a disciplined and creative investigator, a devoted advocate for her patients, and a loyal partner to her Batswana colleagues. While living in Botswana, I have integrated my love of pediatrics and adolescent medicine with serving the underserved globally. I am a consultant in adolescent clinics, train/mentor UB MMed and medical students, and advise on policy about adolescent health needs. My research and scholarship focus on strengthening adolescent mental health services. I research the implementation of counseling and peer support interventions aiming to reduce anxiety and depression in adolescents living with HIV. I hope to support the development of academicians, build a support system with partners from Philadelphia, and support BUP research expansion and sub-specialty development in Botswana. person Julianne E. Burns, MD, MSCE Julianne E. Burns, MD, MSCE Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Attending Physician | Children's Hospital of Philadelphia   Pediatric Oncology | Vaccines | Epidemiology | Infectious disease   Dominican Republic | United States DOM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Julianne Burns, MD, MSCE is a Pediatric Infectious Disease Fellow at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. She completed her undergraduate and medical degrees at UC San Diego and conducted her residency in pediatrics at UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital Oakland. While an undergraduate, she interned at the Pan American Health Organization, where she analyzed global immunization policy-making. Dr. Burns is concurrently completing a Master of Science in Clinical Epidemiology at the University of Pennsylvania through support from a NIH T32 training grant. Her thesis involves analysis of risk factors associated with infections in pediatric cancer patients in the Dominican Republic. person Erwin H. Calgua Guerra, MD, MSCE Erwin H. Calgua Guerra, MD, MSCE International Scholar International Scholar   Director of Research | University of San Carlos’s School of Medicine   Malnutrition | Non-communicable disease | Epidemiology | Medical ethics | HIV/AIDS | Gender violence   Guatemala GTM BIO STATEMENT: Erwin’s collaborative research efforts cover a wide range of topics including non-communicable diseases (NCDs), violence, malnutrition, adolescent health, stem cells, HIV and medical ethics. He is a tenured research faculty member and Director of Research at the University of San Carlos’s School of Medicine (the largest Public University in Guatemala) and holds research management positions at Sanatorio El Pilar (the oldest Private Hospital in Guatamala) and Stem Care, a stem cell company in Guatemala. person Ricardo Castillo-Neyra, PhD, DVM, MSPH Ricardo Castillo-Neyra, PhD, DVM, MSPH Scholar Scholar   Instructor | University of Pennsylvania   Tropical diseases | OneHealth | Epidemiology | Public Health   Guatemala | Peru GTM||PER BIO STATEMENT:I am an assistant professor in the Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, & Informatics in Perelman School of Medicine, and the scientific director of the Zoonotic Disease Research Lab (Penn and Peruvian University Cayetano Heredia). I study the eco-epidemiology of tropical diseases and use canine rabies as a system model to understand how the social and spatial features of cities influence the emergence and persistence of infectious diseases. Dog rabies threatens human health in the Americas and is expanding. Why can’t we get rid of the oldest known zoonotic disease? I conduct community-based studies in Peru to answer this question. person Rosa Chemwey Ndiema, MB ChB, MMed Rosa Chemwey Ndiema, MB ChB, MMed International Scholar International Scholar   Physician | Kenyatta National Hospital   Reproductive health | HIV/AIDS | Maternal Child Health   Kenya KEN BIO STATEMENT: Maternal Health is my specialty and more specifically improving the quality of health care to women in Africa. Currently, as a chair of Reproductive Health Quality Assurance committee we regularly monitor both medical and non-medical processes that impact on quality maternal health and continuously brainstorm on ways to improve. Overall, this links with Global Health in an attempt to significantly reduce maternal morbidity and mortality in Kenya and Africa. person Youhai Harry Chen, Ph.D., M.Sc., M.B Youhai Harry Chen, Ph.D., M.Sc., M.B International Scholar International Scholar   Emeritus Professor of Pathology | Shenzehen Institute of Advanced Technology   Medical Education | Pharmaceutical Education   China CHN BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Chen received his M.B. and M.Sc. from Shandong University, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Manitoba, Canada. After a postdoctoral training at Harvard Medical School, he joined the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania in 1995. He was a Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine until 2020. In 2021, he became Chair Professor and Dean of School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Shenzhen, China. He has authored more than 150 research articles, and chaired a number of academic and administrative committees at academic or pharmaceutical institutions. person Kenechukwu Chudy Onwugaje MBBS, MPH, MS Kenechukwu Chudy Onwugaje MBBS, MPH, MS Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Gastroenterologist/Interventional Endoscopist | BJC Healthcare System   Global Endoscopy | Health Systems Strengthening | Digestive Diseases   Nigeria | Rwanda NGA||RWA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Chudy-Onwugaje is a gastroenterologist currently pursuing advanced endoscopy training at HUP. His interests lie in the advancement of global digestive health equity and are particularly focused on expanding access to gastrointestinal endoscopy in sub-Saharan Africa. He is the co-investigator of a project supported by the University of Maryland President’s Global Impact Fund to strengthen gastroenterology training in Rwanda. He completed an MPH degree with a concentration in Global Health and interned at the Global Health programme at Chatham House, London. During his gastroenterology fellowship at the University of Maryland, he was supported by a T32 grant from the NIH person Ryan Close, MD, MPH Ryan Close, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Medical Officer | Indian Health Service   Immunization policy | Pediatrics | Iron deficiency   Dominican Republic | United States DOM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Global Health is an interaction between poverty and morbidity. Particular diseases that afflict the disenfranchised vary geographically, but impoverished persons everywhere share high rates of morbidity and mortality, particularly from illness that is preventable in the “general public”. I focus on novel, sustainable means to address common morbidities in these communities – whether they live in the US or abroad. My interests are less about specific illnesses, and more about finding what impacts communities disproportionately. This led to work on pediatric iron-deficiency anemia in the DR, vaccine-preventable disease in humanitarian crises, and Group A Strep infections in American Indians. person Susan Coffin, MD, MPH Susan Coffin, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Professor of Pediatrics | Children's Hospital of Philadelphia   Infection control | Pandemic influenza | Pediatrics | Infectious disease   Botswana | China | Egypt | Ghana | Greece | India | Vietnam | Zambia BWA||CHN||EGY||GHA||GRC||IND||VNM||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Coffin has served as an international consultant and trainer for infection prevention and control programs, including pandemic influenza preparedness, in various developing countries, including Egypt, China, Ghana, Greece, Botswana, and Vietnam. Dr. Coffin’s research focuses on the epidemiology and prevention of healthcare-associated infections in international and domestic settings. Current international projects active in Greece, Zambia, Nigeria, and India. person Jennifer Elizabeth Cohn, MD, MPH Jennifer Elizabeth Cohn, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Clinical Assistant Professor   Viral Hepatitis | Innovation | HIV/AIDS | Access to health products | Tuberculosis | Market dynamics   Cameroon | China | India | Kenya | Ethiopia | Nigeria | Philippines | Sri Lanka | Thailand | Uganda | Vietnam | Zimbabwe CMR||CHN||IND||KEN||ETH||NGA||PHL||LKA||THA||UGA||VNM||ZWE BIO STATEMENT - Dr. Jennifer Cohn is an infectious disease physician with a focus on improving access to and uptake of effective health products and models of care in low- and middle-income countries. She currently serves as the Global Access Leader for the Global Antibiotic Research and Development Partnership (GARDP), and is a clinical associate professor of Infectious Diseases and Scholar at the Center for Global Health at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. Before joining GARDP, Jennifer served as Senior Vice President for cardiovascular health at Resolve to Save Lives, Senior Director of Innovation at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, and as the Medical Coordinator for the Doctors Without Borders (MSF) Access Campaign. Jennifer has served on international advisory groups for TB, HIV, non-communicable diseases and viral hepatitis. She has published over 80 papers in peer-reviewed medical journals. Jennifer received her MD from University of Pennsylvania, is board certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine in Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases and earned her Masters in Public Health at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health. person Corrado Cancedda MD, PhD Corrado Cancedda MD, PhD Scholar Scholar   Director | Botswana- Upenn Partnership   Health Systems Strengthening | Antimicrobial Resistance | Health Equity | Capacity-building | Academic Partnerships | Human Resources for Health | Sustainability   Botswana | Lesotho BWA||LSO BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Corrado Cancedda is Director of the Botswana University of Pennsylvania Partnership and Strategic Advisor for Academic Partnerships at the Center for Global Health of the Perelman School of Medicine, at the University of Pennsylvania. Prior to his current position, he was Associate Physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital and Assistant Professor at Harvard Medical School. Dr Cancedda has over twelve years of experience as a clinician, educator, researcher, implementer, and scholar in Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Lesotho. His academic interest lies in the implementation and evaluation of large-scale and multi-disciplinary Global Health Initiatives. person Kumarasen Cooper, MD, PhD. Kumarasen Cooper, MD, PhD. Scholar Scholar   Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine   Teaching | Surgical Pathology   South Africa ZAF BIO STATEMENT: I have spent two months/year since 2016 at University of Botswana (under umbrella of UB-Penn Partnership) teaching and training residents at UB. Since April 2017, seven Penn Pathology residents, one medical student and one pathology assistant, have accompanied me and teaching UB residents. In addition i have performed clinical work (signed out surgical pathology cases with residents) on a regular basis. My Penn residents have taught a broad range of subjects in surgical pathology with much enthusiasm. In return we have brought two Botswana residents (month each) to spend an elective at Penn Pathology. A third cancelled May 2020. person Torrey A. Creed, PhD Torrey A. Creed, PhD Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Psychiatry | University of Pennsylvania   Health Equity | Sustainability | Evidence-based Practices | cognitive behavioral therapy | Mental health | fidelity   Rwanda | Haiti RWA||HTI BIO STATEMENT: As founder of the Penn Collaborative for CBT & Implementation Science, I lead a team of experts in the development and evaluation of strategies to implement and sustain evidence-based mental health practices (particularly cognitive behavior therapy) in under-resourced communities. Domestically, we focus on Medicaid-funded community mental health systems. Globally, I serve as Health Policy Advisor to Partners in Health, leading the implementation of Cognitive Processing Therapy in Haiti and broadening access to CBT in Rwanda. I've also led briefer projects with providers in Canada (focused on Indigenous people) and Inner Mongolia / China (funded by the World Health Organization). person Farouk Dako, MD, MPH Farouk Dako, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor - Department of Radiology   Enterprise Advancement | Imaging | Artifical Inteligence | Radiology Education   Nigeria NGA BIO STATEMENT: I have worked in global radiology for over 5 years with focus in Nigeria, mainly through RAD-AID International. I am interested in advancing radiology in underserved areas and increasing radiology's role in global health promotion person Kassa Darge, MD, PhD,DTMP, FSAR, FESUR Kassa Darge, MD, PhD,DTMP, FSAR, FESUR Scholar Scholar   Radiologist-in-Chief | Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.   Pediatric Radiology   Brazil | Ethiopia | South Africa BRA||ETH||ZAF BIO STATEMENT: Since 1991, I have been involved in various international outreach activities. Initially, my focus was on tropical pediatrics, but later on I switched my work to pediatric radiology education. In 2008, I established the collaboration between the Departments of Radiology at CHOP and Addis Ababa University with the objective of supporting the radiology residency program in pediatric imaging education and conducting a pediatric radiology fellowship. In February 2017 the first 2 pediatric radiologists graduated from this 2-year fellowship program – the first ones in a country with a 100 million population with almost 60% in the pediatric age group. person Bege Dauda, PhD Bege Dauda, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Postdoctoral Fellow | Saint Joseph's University   Medical ethics | Consent in research | Human heredity and health   Nigeria NGA BIO STATEMENT: My interest in global health revolves around my involvement in global health research and development. I have been working on topics that are relevant to the improvement of global health, particularly in resource limited countries. As a scholar coming from a developing country (Nigeria), my research has been focused on how to improve research capacity in, improve ethical conduct in research and ensuring that researchers from developing countries have a voice in global health research platforms and collaboration. These interests are reflected in my research work on the ethical issues in the conduct of research developing countries, particularly in Africa. person Maryann Delea, MPH, PhD Maryann Delea, MPH, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Postdoctoral Fellow | Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University   Environmental health | Global water | Epidemiology | sanitation | Tropical diseases | & hygiene   Ethiopia | India | United States ETH||IND||USA BIO STATEMENT: Maryann is a social epidemiologist who combines theory with epidemiological methods to elucidate relationships between socio-structural factors and health and development outcomes. She is particularly interested in leveraging such evidence to design effective programming and policy solutions. She aims to: 1) improve health and contribute to development by investigating factors influencing the adoption of improved health behaviors; and 2) employ evidence-based strategies to ensure uptake of findings from evaluations into routine practice to maximize the quality and effectiveness of public health and development programming. Her work has largely focused on WASH, Guinea worm disease, trachoma, soil-transmitted helminths, influenza, and measles. person Nicholas J. Diamond, JD, LLM, MBE Nicholas J. Diamond, JD, LLM, MBE Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Director and Global Health Practice Leader | Crowell & Moring International   Governance | Social determinants of health | Health and human rights | Law   United States USA BIO STATEMENT: Nicholas J. Diamond, J.D., LL.M., M.B.E. is an expert on global and U.S. health law, policy, and ethics. He currently works at Avalere Health, an advisory firm in Washington, DC, where his clients include biopharmaceutical companies, health insurers, advocacy organizations, and private equity firms. Concurrently, Nick is also: an Adjunct Professor of Law at Georgetown Law, a Professorial Lecturer in the Department of Health Policy and Management at George Washington; and an Adjunct Fellow in Center for Public Health Initiatives and an Associate Scholar in the Center For Global Health, both within the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. His research has appeared in law reviews, peer-reviewed journals, and popular media outlets. He has lectured in a variety of academic and non-academic settings, and appeared on a number of national news programs as an expert in public health law. Before joining Avalere, Nick led market strategy in the healthcare and life sciences sectors at MarkLogic, a global technology company headquartered in Silicon Valley. Prior to MarkLogic, he held consulting roles at the MITRE Corporation and Booz Allen Hamilton, where in both instances he advised the U.S. government on policy and regulatory matters related to implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Nick trained as a lawyer in U.S., and also holds advanced degrees in bioethics and global health law. He currently resides in Washington, DC. person Brian Samuel Englander, MD Brian Samuel Englander, MD Scholar Scholar   Chairman, Department of Radiology, Pennsylvania Hospital   Breast cancer | Women's health   Egypt | Haiti | Israel | Mongolia | Romania | Sri Lanka | Vietnam EGY||HTI||ISR||MNG||ROU||LKA||VNM BIO STATEMENT:I am a diagnostic radiologist, with sub-specialization in breast imaging and intervention. I have a particular interest in addressing women's health inequities regionally and globally. I am Chair of the Department of Radiology at Pennsylvania Hospital. As a 2018 Eisenhower Fellow (USA), I visited Mongolia and Israel to understand cultural, religious, and ethnic barriers to health care, in particular breast cancer. I have created an NGO, Benek Global Health Project. I have worked on devices that offer inexpensive pre-screening alternatives to mammography. I am actively engaged in projects in Mongolia, Israel, Haiti, Romania, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and Egypt. person Tara Marie Friebel, MPH Tara Marie Friebel, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   PhD Candidate at the University of Pennsylvania   Epidemiology | Global Oncology   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: I received my MPH from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and subsequently worked at the University of Pennsylvania. At Penn, I was involved with studies of genetics, risk factors, early detection and prevention efforts to reduce the morbidity and mortality of breast, ovarian, and prostate cancer. Currently I am a PhD candidate in Epidemiology focusing my dissertation research on reducing the burden of cervical cancer in Botswana. I have previously been involved in a prostate cancer study in Senegal, and an international consortium of BRCA1/2 investigators, both which have ignited my passion for global oncology. person Michael Glick, DMD Michael Glick, DMD Scholar Scholar   Executive Director for the Center for Integrative Global Oral Health   Oral Health   Israel ISR BIO STATEMENT: Michael Glick is Professor and Executive Director, Center for Integrative Global Oral Health, School of Dental Medicine, University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Glick has authored more than 300 publications, including original research articles, editorials, and book chapters, and has written, edited and co-edited 10 textbooks. Dr. Glick is the immediate past Dean, School of Dental Medicine, University at Buffalo, past-President of the American Board of Oral Medicine, served as Editor-in-Chief of The Journal of the American Dental Association from 2005 to 2020 and was the primary author of FDI/World Dental Federation’s Vision 2020 and, most recently, Vision 2030. person Robert Gross, MD, MSCE Robert Gross, MD, MSCE Scholar Scholar   Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology   substance use | smoking cessation | HIV/AIDS | Delivery of Care | STIs   Botswana BWA Bio statement: Director, International Core, Penn CFAR. HIV clinical investigation and clinical research training. person Surbhi Grover, MD, MPH Surbhi Grover, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology | University of Pennsylvania   Radiation oncology | Global Oncology | HPV   Botswana | India | South Africa | Zambia BWA||IND||ZAF||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Grover is interested in addressing the growing global cancer burden by focusing on public health endeavors and cost-effective clinical initiatives to improve access to care and outcomes of care in developing countries. Since 2011, she has been working with the Botswana-UPENN partnership, strengthening the oncology program in Botswana. She moved full-time to Botswana in 2014. In her current role at head of oncology at the Princess Marina Hospital, she is seeing cancer patients at the public hospital, conducting research and teaching. She is also leading the implementation of an ongoing U54-funded UPENN/UB study focused on cervical cancer. She is heavily involved with AORTIC, the African body on cancer research and education and leading educational efforts in Africa. She is also working closely with collaborators at TATA Memorial Cancer Center in India on various research projects and developing education initiatives for trainees in India and Africa. person Yoonhee Patricia Ha, MSc, MPhil Yoonhee Patricia Ha, MSc, MPhil Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   MD-PhD Candidate | University of Pennsylvania   Public Health | Technology in Low Resource Settings   Ghana | Botswana GHA||BWA BIO STATEMENT: Yoonhee P. Ha, MSc, MPhil, is an MD-PhD candidate in the Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics. She completed her undergraduate studies at The Ohio State University and graduate studies at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine. Her research interests include public health in resource-limited settings, behavioral insights, and technology. person Ha Minh Thuy, MD Ha Minh Thuy, MD International Scholar International Scholar   Curriculum Development Manager | VinUniversity   internal medicine | clinical medicine | Medical Education | health sciences   Vietnam VNM BIO STATEMENT:Dr Ha Minh Thuy currently serves as Curriculum Development Manager for MD program in the College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity. After graduation in 2011, Dr Thuy had experiences working in the Oncology department in both local and international hospitals. Within this current position, Dr Thuy has considerable contribution in designing the curriculum for MD program including assessment needs, competency establishment, curriculum framework, teaching and learning materials development… Dr Thuy is the second Vietnamese to be accepted in the International Fellowship program at FAIMER Institute, Philadelphia, US with fully funded scholarship. This program is focusing on health professional education supported by the Foundation for Advancement of International Medical Education and Research a non – profit foundation of the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG). person Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS , PhD Denis Hadjiliadis, MD, MHS , PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Associate Professor of Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   International Medical Education   Greece GRC BIO STATEMENT: My main interest comes from working with diseases and groups that are international in cystic fibrosis and lung transplantation. I have been pa t of global committees mostly as a clinician for these groups. I also have grown up, trained and worked in other countries, so have more interest in reaching out. Finally, I am a past president and still involved of a philanthropic organization, the Hellenic medical society of Philadelphia, which focuses on education, philanthropy and networking among Greeks across different countries. person Muge Haseki, PhD Muge Haseki, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Post Doc at Penn Law School   Telemedicine | Technology in Low Resource Settings | Law   United States | Nepal USA||NPL BIO-STATEMENT Müge Haseki is a postdoctoral researcher at the Center for Technology, Innovation and Competition at Penn Law, and working on a project that partially focuses on the evaluation and assessment of technology-based health initiatives in LMICs in the Global South. She is particularly interested in the structural inequalities in accessing to and using of technology-based interventions including mobile health use among pregnant women in Nepal, mobile phone use in health clinics in rural Rwanda, and the use of telemedicine network in Vanuatu. She also worked on other projects funded by USAID, GSMA Connected Women, United Nations, and UNESCO person Norrisa Adriana Haynes, MD, MPH Norrisa Adriana Haynes, MD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Cardiology Fellow   Non-communicable disease | Golbal Cardiovascular Health   Haiti HTI BIO ATTACHED: Norrisa Haynes MD, MPH is a third year cardiology fellow at UPenn. Dr. Haynes attended Yale for undergrad and Columbia University for medical school and internal medicine residency. She obtained her MPH from Harvard School of Public Health. Through Partners in Health (PIH), Dr. Haynes worked at Hôpital Universitaire de Mirebalais (HUM), in Haiti. She worked as a junior attending for 2 years at HUM while also working as a Harvard instructor and Brigham hospitalist. Dr. Haynes is interested in pursuing a career in global cardiovascular health and continues to provide pertinent cardiovascular educational content to physicians-in-training in Haiti. person Ryan C. Henrici, MD, PhD Ryan C. Henrici, MD, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Lecturer| University of Pennsylvania   Infectious disease | Sickle Cell Disease | Malaria | Capacity-building   United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | Uganda GBR||UGA BIO STATEMENT:Neglected diseases affect millions of people each year, inflicting enormous public health and economic cost to developing nations. In many cases, antimicrobial drug resistance and non-communicable comorbidities multiply these costs and complicate global efforts to improve child and adult health. I work at the intersections of biology, drug development, and clinical medicine with a special focus on malaria and Sickle Cell Disease. These diseases are pathophysiologically intertwined and disproportionately affect patients in tropical settings, causing considerable morbidity and mortality. In particular, I map the cellular mechanisms of malarial development and drug resistance, track the evolution of drug resistance in the field, and study the consequences of malarial infection and outcomes of treatment in children with SCD. I also work closely with biopharmaceutical partners to build and test new drugs for the treatment of infections, including malaria, and sickle cell disease, with an emphasis on equitable drug development. person Ari Ho-Foster, BSc, MSc Ari Ho-Foster, BSc, MSc International Scholar International Scholar   Assistant Programme Director | University of Botswana Faculty of Medicine - Research and Graduate Studies Office   Healthcare Access | Mental health | HIV/AIDS | Gender violence | Tuberculosis   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: My academic interests are in furthering the use epidemiological methods to improve the health of populations. This includes mentorship and practice in generating evidence to improve our understanding of risk factors for disease, access/linkage to diagnosis and care, program evaluation, and effective communication of evidence to improve program implementation. I have worked in 12 countries, supporting research on maternal child health, HIV prevention, TB-HIV diagnostics, cancer care, gender violence and mental health. I also managed a Data Acquisition Core team aimed at improving routine data collection for Non-Communicable Disease research, and served as Country Operations Officer for the Botswana-UPenn Partnership person John Holmes, PhD, FACE, FACMI John Holmes, PhD, FACE, FACMI Scholar Scholar   Professor of Medical Informatics in Epidemiology | University of Pennsylvania   Informatics | Injury Prevention | Epidemiology | Disease Surveillance | Capacity-building   Botswana | Italy | United States BWA||ITA||USA BIO STATEMENT: John H. Holmes, PhD, is Professor of Medical Informatics in Epidemiology in the Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics. He is Associate Director of the Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics and chairs the Doctoral Program in Epidemiology. He has mentored pre- and post-doctoral students at Penn, University of Botswana, and Universities of Pavia and Verona, Italy. Dr. Holmes is engaged with the Botswana-UPenn Partnership, assisting in building informatics and epidemiologic research capacity in Botswana. He is an elected Fellow of the American College of Medical Informatics, the American College of Epidemiology, and the International Academy of Health Sciences Informatics. person Joseph N Jarvis, MSc, MBBS, MRCP, PhD, DTM Joseph N Jarvis, MSc, MBBS, MRCP, PhD, DTM Scholar Scholar   Professor of Tropical Medicine and International Medicine | London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine   Opportunistic Infections | Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) | Meningitis | Epidemiology | Immunology | HIV/AIDS | Clinical Trials   Botswana | France | Malawi | Tanzania, United Republic of | Uganda | Zimbabwe | United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | South Africa BWA||FRA||MWI||TZA||UGA||ZWE||GBR||ZAF BIO STATEMENT: I am an infectious diseases physician and clinical researcher based full time in Botswana, where I have been working for the Botswana-Upenn Partnership since February 2014. My primary research interest is in HIV-related opportunistic infections, in particular those affecting the central nervous system (CNS). I have recently completed a phase II clinical trial exploring novel treatments for HIV-associated cryptococcal meningitis, am running a cryptococcal meningitis screening and prevention trial, and have a series of studies describing the aetiology of CNS infections in this setting and utility of molecular diagnostics. I also provide clinical care in the local health service. person Michelle J. Johnson, PhD Michelle J. Johnson, PhD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor (PSOM) and Secondary Faculty Appointment - SEAS Bioengineering   Neurorehabilitation   Botswana | Costa Rica | Italy | Mexico | Jamaica BWA||CRI||ITA||MEX||JAM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Johnson directs the Rehabilitation Robotic Research and Design Laboratory, which specializes in the design, development, and therapeutic use of novel, affordable, intelligent robotic assistants for rehabilitation in high and low-resource environments. The lab emphasizes the use of neuroscience, robotics and sensors to support functional recovery in adults and children with brain injury or at risk for brain injury. Active projects with clinicians and engineers is in Italy, Mexico, Costa Rica, Jamaica, and Botswana. A Fulbright Scholar for 2020-202, she will pursue technology-assisted rehabilitation in Botswana for people living with HIV and Stroke in collaboration with CFAR. person Atul A. Kalanuria, MD, FACP, MHCI Atul A. Kalanuria, MD, FACP, MHCI Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Assistant Professor of Neurology, Neurosurgery, Anesthesia and Critical Care | University of Pennsylvania   Neurology | Brain and Spinal Diseases   India | United States IND||USA BIO STATEMENT: I am a neuro-intensivist at Penn, and I specialize in the management of acute brain and spine diseases. The outcome of acute neurological diseases such as stroke and traumatic brain and spine injuries depends heavily on the care given within the first few hours. The exploration of the scope of practice and ability of providers to care for such patients in resource scare environments is a matter of great importance and personal interest. Many of these injuries can be salvaged with meager resources and modification of existing practices. As a neurointensivist at Penn medicine, my role is to promote brain healing while identifying and treating injury. My training in innovation equips me with tools to improve healthcare. Brought up in India, I am able to appreciate the technological, logistical and operational insufficiencies there. There is a growing need for acute neurological and neurosurgical care in most parts of India and my hope is that I will be able to accomplish my goal of forging partnerships in my home country. person Vinay Kampalath, MD, DTMH Vinay Kampalath, MD, DTMH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Fellow | Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia   Humanitarian assistance | Refugee health   Bangladesh | Lao People's Democratic Republic | South Africa | Botswana | India | Jordan | Greece | Sierra Leone | United States BGD||LAO||ZAF||BWA||IND||JOR||GRC||SLE||USA BIO STATEMENT: Vinay N. Kampalath is a fellow in pediatric emergency medicine and global health at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. He has engaged in patient care, clinical education, and public health work in Laos, Bhutan, Bangladesh, India, Jordan, Greece, Botswana, South Africa, and Sierra Leone. His specific interests include humanitarian crises, refugee health, and providing point-of-care ultrasound education in resource-limited settings. He completed his medical training at Brown University and his Diploma in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and is currently pursuing his MPH from LSHTM. person Jonathan Kantor, MD, MSCE, MA Jonathan Kantor, MD, MSCE, MA Scholar Scholar   Adjunct Assistant Professor of Dermatology | University of Pennsylvania   Artifical Inteligence | Telemedicine | Medical Education   France | Haiti | South Africa | United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | United States FRA||HTI||ZAF||GBR||USA BIO STATEMENT:Dr Jonathan Kantor is an Adjunct Assistant Professor of Dermatology at the Perelman School of Medicine. Jonathan is editor-in-chief of the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology International, the author/ editor of four textbooks published by McGraw-Hill, and the author of over 100 peer-reviewed manuscripts, abstracts, and book chapters. Born in South Africa and educated in six countries on four continents, his scholarship is focused on utilization and access to skin and cancer care. He has a long-standing interest in international education, outreach, telemedicine, and AI, leveraging international expertise for the betterment of global health in dermatology. person Daniel Kantor, MD, FAAN Daniel Kantor, MD, FAAN Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   President Emeritus, Florida Society of Neurology   Standardization of care across different health systems | Health outcomes | Health economics | Patient advocacy | Neurology   Nigeria NGA BIO STATEMENT: Daniel Kantor, MD, FAAN is President Emeritus of the Florida Society of Neurology. After studying Literary Theory and Computer Science & Engineering at Penn, he enrolled in the charter class of the Ben-Gurion University -- Columbia University Collaboration in Global Health & Medicine. After completing Neurology residency at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, he chose to remain in the US to use global health skills to help urban and rural populations as the Director of the Comprehensive MS Center, University of Florida in Jacksonville. Most recently, he served as Director of the Division of Neurology and then as Inaugural Neurology Residency Program Director at Florida Atlantic University. person Debbie Kantor APRN, MSN Debbie Kantor APRN, MSN Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Founder and CEO of Hero Medical | Co-Founder of Constant Connection   Triage | Acute Care | Mental health | Head Injury   Australia | Israel | Kenya AUS||ISR||KEN Debbie Kantor APRN, MSN is a Gerontological Nurse Practitioner trained at Penn, where she sat on the Clinical Faculty of the Penn School of Nursing from 1999-2005. She is the Founder and CEO of Hero Medical, a MedTech company tackling the prehospital care of head injuries and stroke. According to WHO, Traumatic Brain Injury is the leading cause of trauma-related death and disability around the world. Her company is creating an accessible and inexpensive platform to more rapidly bandage and monitor head-injured patients. She is also co-founder of Constant Connection, a startup creating a global platform for wellness and resources for caregivers. person Iliana V. Kohler, PhD Iliana V. Kohler, PhD Scholar Scholar   Associate Director | Population Studies Center at the University of Pennsylvania   Health Systems Strengthening | Aging | Mental health | Cognition | Non-communicable disease   Burkina Faso | Malawi | United States BFA||MWI||USA BIO STATEMENT: I am social demographer interested in the demographic, health and social aspects of aging in low and middle income contexts. My approach to study global health, aging and mortality is based on the life-course perspective and in several projects and publications in collaboration with other researchers we have shown the long legacy of early childhood factors on health outcomes in late life in different contexts. I am leading a portfolio of research projects that critically evaluates social, demographic and epidemiological theories of aging outside the realm of the transitional aging studies that are focused on upper-middle-income and high-income contexts. person Carrie L. Kovarik, MD Carrie L. Kovarik, MD Scholar Scholar   Professor of Dermatology | University of Pennsylvania   Telemedicine | Informatics | HIV/AIDS | Healthcare Access   Botswana | Guatemala | Malawi | Tanzania, United Republic of | Peru | Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) BWA||GTM||MWI||TZA||PER||VEN BIO STATEMENT: I have an interest in access to health care, telemedicine, informatics, and HIV-related skin disease. I have created the Penn Dermatology Global Health program, through which I work to provide clinical care and education in underserved communities. I have implemented numerous innovative telemedicine programs in underserved communities in the US and globally using mobile phones, electronic medical records, open source technology, and accessory medical devices. I am now also focusing on developing, sustaining, and advocating for new models of quality health care that can increase access through telemedicine and other means. person Priti Lal, MD Priti Lal, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Director of GU Pathology, Associate Professor, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Prostate Cancer | Bladder and Kidney Cancer | Global Oncology | Medical Education   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: As part of the CGH community, my primary interest is teaching and mentoring students from countries in Africa who have an interest in gaining a deeper understanding of the current diagnostic and molecular tools as applied to prostate, kidney, and bladder cancer. Dr. Lal is the Director of GU Pathology, Associate Professor, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine | University of Pennsylvania. She is the lead pathologist in applying the latest technology of 3D visualization of prostate cancer, focusing on men of African descent. She is also the lead pathologist from the USA for the MADCAP consortium, a collaboration between Harvard, Moffit, Penn, and ten countries in Africa. person Krzysztof Laudanski, MD, PhD, MA, FCCM Krzysztof Laudanski, MD, PhD, MA, FCCM Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Critical Care | University of Pennsylvania   Brain drain | Protocol development   Brazil | China | Croatia | South Africa | Tanzania, United Republic of | Vietnam BRA||CHN||HRV||ZAF||TZA||VNM BIO STATEMENT: I have been interested in global health for several years. I participated on several clinical, research and supportive appointments in Brazil, South Africa, Vietnam, People Republic of China, Tanzania and Croatia. My research focus on the mechanism preventing "brain drain" from the low-income countries. I specifically study mechanisms how the transfer of knowledge occur and what are the barriers. I worked with several organization but most recently I collaborate with the Health Volunteers Overseas. person Linh Cu Le MD, PhD Linh Cu Le MD, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Vice Dean - College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity   Cancer epidemiology | Adolescent health | Reproductive health | Injury Prevention   China | India | Vietnam CHN||IND||VNM BIO STATEMENT: Dr Linh worked almost 17 years at Hanoi University of Public Health and dedicatedly contributed to the delivery of the very first Master and Doctoral program of Public Health in Vietnam as well as capacity building and health sciences education reform at national scale. Dr Linh joined Vinmec – the leading private healthcare system in Vietnam in 2014, and played an instrumental role to establish VinUniversity and its College of Health Sciences in 2019. Both Vinmec and VinUniversity are not-for-profit members of Vingroup - the largest private corproration in Vietnam. Dr Linh’s research and policy advocacy focused on road traffic safety, injury prevention, adolescent and population health. As a scholar, he provided technical support to numerous projects for EU, WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, etc. in Vietnam, China, the Philippines, and India. person Joseph Leanza, MD Joseph Leanza, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Global Emergency Medicine Fellow | Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania   Humanitarian Response | Climate Change | Emergency Medicine | Medical Education   Bangladesh | Pakistan | Iraq BGD||PAK||IRQ BIO STATEMENT: Joseph Leanza is an Emergency Medicine physician at the University of Pennsylvania with an interest in emergency medicine systems, disaster and humanitarian response, education, and environmental health. Within the NGO Global Response Management, he is the project lead for emergency medicine specialty and EMS systems development in Federal Iraq and Iraqi Kurdistan. He also works in research and education with the Certification Program in Emergency Medicine in Pakistan and Bangladesh and with the Penn Center for Global Health developing simulation curricula at Vin University in Vietnam. He has previously worked in a clinical and research capacity with Global Emergency Care in Masaka, Uganda. person Shaun Wen Huey Lee Shaun Wen Huey Lee International Scholar International Scholar   Associate Professor | Monash University School of Pharmacy   Tuberculosis | Quality Use of Medicine   Vietnam | Malaysia VNM||MYS BIO STATEMENT: Shaun Lee is a pharmacist by profession and is currently an Associate Professor in the School of Pharmacy at Monash University Malaysia. His research is highly interdisciplinary and uses methods from the social sciences, public health, clinical medicine, and epidemiology. His current research focuses on population health, in relation to how public interventions can have an impact on health inequalities with particular focus on non-communicable diseases; pharmacoepidemiology, and in particular on how to optimize medication and reducing inappropriate polypharmacy in vulnerable populations, such as in older adults, or those with a life-limiting illness. person Michael Z. Levy, PhD Michael Z. Levy, PhD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Epidemiology in Biostatistics and Epidemiology | University of Pennsylvania   Chagas disease | Disease ecology   Peru PER I study the interface of insects, pathogens & people. I founded the UPenn/UPCH Zoonotic Disease Laboratory in Arequipa, Peru in 2004 and have led a number of studies on Chagas disease in that city. Recently I've begun studying bugs closer to home--bed bugs. person Pranee Liamputtong, PhD Pranee Liamputtong, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Professor of Behavior Sciences | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences   Global Cardiovascular Disease | Breast cancer | HIV/AIDS | Sexual Violence | Mental health | Social aspects of the pandemic   Australia | Iraq | Jamaica | Japan | Malaysia | Thailand | United States | Vietnam AUS||IRQ||JAM||JPN||MYS||THA||USA||VNM BIO STATEMENT: I am a medical anthropologist and have interests in the health of women, children, immigrants, refugees, older people, and transgender individuals. I am interested in issues relating to motherhood, reproductive health, sexuality, sexual health, mental health, HIV/AIDS, breast cancer, and the global pandemic. I have undertaken many research projects with refugee and immigrant women in Australia and qualitative research with women living with HIV/AIDS and breast cancer in Thailand and Malaysia. I am a qualitative researcher and have written several textbooks on this approach. At VinUniversity, my focus will be on health behaviors and social determinants of health. person Renyu Liu, MD, PhD Renyu Liu, MD, PhD Scholar Scholar   Professor of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, and Neurology, University of Pennsylvania | Co-Chair of the World Stroke Organization Taskforce for Prehospital Care (WSOTPC)   Stroke   China | United States CHN||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Liu is a physician scientist in the Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Perelman School of Medicine. One of Dr Liu’s primary interests is to reduce prehospital delays for stroke victims world-wide by working with a global multi-disciplinary team. After successfully implementing his novel Stroke education strategy, Stroke 120 in China (https://www.pennmedicine.org/news/internal-newsletters/system-news/2017/february/it-s-as-easy-as-1-2-0), in conjunction with Dr. Jing Zhao, a neurologist at Fudan University in Shanghai, Dr. Liu and his multi-disciplinary team also created Stroke 112 for other non-English speaking countries and regions. These educational strategies, based on the English program, FAST (Face, Arm, Speech, Time), for rapid stroke recognition and action, are currently being implemented in several countries or regions where English is not the primary language. Dr. Liu was appointed as Director of the Stroke 120 Special Task Force by the Chinese Stroke Association in 2017. Dr Liu is a current China Research Engagement Fund ($100K) recipient to promote and study Stroke 120 in China. If you are interested in joining his multi-disciplinary team in reducing prehospital delays for stroke victims worldwide, please contact him at liur@uphs.upenn.edu. Dr Liu has worked with Rosemary Polomano, PhD, RN, FAAN, and Joshua Atkins, MD, PhD, on a joint Penn Nursing and Medicine collaboration to improve post-surgical Pain management in China with funding support from the Penn Global. Dr. Liu also has an active basic research lab, funded by an NIH-R01, studying novel compound(s) as opioid receptor ligands for clinical usage through an understanding of the structural-functional relationships of opioid and opioid receptors. person Elizabeth Dawn Lowenthal, MD,MSCE Elizabeth Dawn Lowenthal, MD,MSCE   Associate Professor of Pediatrics & Epidemiology | University of Pennsylvania   HIV/AIDS | Pediatrics   Botswana | Dominican Republic BWA||DOM BIO STATEMENT: After living in Botswana from 2004-2008 and serving as the Clinic Director of the Botswana-Baylor Children's Clinical Centre of Excellence at that time, I came to Penn for Epidemiology training and stayed here as faculty of the medical school. I am now Research Director for Global Health at CHOP and I have active research in Botswana and the Dominican Republic. I mentor numerous students, faculty and in-country partners whose work is focused on the health of children in resource-limited settings. person Paul Lu, MD Paul Lu, MD Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Capacity-building | International Medical Education   Botswana | Vietnam BWA||VNM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Paul Lu’s clinical and research interests are focused on medical education and global health. Locally, he co-directs the PSOM Global Health Pre-Departure Training Course for health professional students interested in global health electives. Internationally, he supports the VinGroup-Penn Alliance and has helped develop both undergraduate and graduate medical education curriculum for VinUniversity, College of Health Sciences in Hanoi, Vietnam. In addition, he co-directs the Master Clinical Educator Academy (MCEA) faculty development training program at VinUniversity. Dr. Lu has been involved in various medical-related projects in China, Vietnam, Mexico, Botswana, Tanzania, and Zimbabwe. person Kevin Sheng-Kai Ma, DDS Kevin Sheng-Kai Ma, DDS International Scholar International Scholar   Lecturer and Research fellow   Environmental health | Adverse drug reactions | Epidemiology | Infectious disease   Taiwan, Province of China TWN BIO STATEMENT:Dr. Ma leads clinical studies at National Taiwan University, Taiwan using population-based cohort registry and multi-national intramural databases. His main research interests include infectious diseases and adverse drug reactions. As a previous scholar at Penn, he keeps close collaborations with faculty at Penn. Through integrating sociodemographics, lifestyle survey, environmental exposure, medical records, and genetic data provided from affiliated biobanks in these cohorts studies, results of these studies provide understanding towards the complicated interactions between clinical phenotypes/ disease prognosis, lifestyle/ environmental exposure, and genotypes, and could be applied to improve health equity worldwide. person Shannon Marquez, PhD, MEng Shannon Marquez, PhD, MEng Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Dean of Global Engagement & Professor | Columbia University   sanitation & hygiene | gender equity and social inclusion | Maternal Child Health | capacity building and health-systems strengthening | Global water | livelihood and resilience   Brazil | Cameroon | China | Cuba | Equatorial Guinea | France | Ethiopia | Gambia | Ghana | India | Japan | Lesotho | Liberia | Mali | Malawi | Mozambique | Nigeria | Rwanda | Senegal | Sierra Leone | South Africa | Switzerland | Uganda | United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | Zambia | Zimbabwe BRA||CMR||CHN||CUB||GNQ||FRA||ETH||GMB||GHA||IND||JPN||LSO||LBR||MLI||MWI||MOZ||NGA||RWA||SEN||SLE||ZAF||CHE||UGA||GBR||ZMB||ZWE BIO STATEMENT: My research and practice has been in the field of global environmental health; water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH); sustainable solutions to address the environmental burden of disease and health disparities in developing countries; and health systems strengthening and capacity-building in global health. Currently, I serve as the Director of the Dornsife Global Development Scholars Program, which leverages an exciting global health partnership with World Vision International to provide global health training, support faculty/student research, and trainee field experiences in 36 countries across sub-Saharan Africa. I teach courses in WASH, and MCH, including field courses in Cuba and West Africa. person Yehoda Martei, MD, MSCE Yehoda Martei, MD, MSCE Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Global Oncology   Botswana | Ghana | Uganda BWA||GHA||UGA BIO STATEMENT: I am an attending physician in the Division of Hematology-Oncology at Penn. My research focuses on evaluating and improving access to cancer medicines and treatment outcomes in breast cancer patients in sub Saharan Africa, and assessing the impact of access to essential medicines for cancer treatment in low- and middle- income countries, on clinical outcomes among cancer patients. I have also worked on the WHO Steering Committee/ Union for International Cancer Control Task Team for updating the Model List of Essential Medicines for Cancer and the Steering Committee for the Medicine Patent Policy: “Feasibility of expanding the Medicines Patent Pool’s scope to include all patented essential medicines.” person Sergio N. Martinez, MD Sergio N. Martinez, MD International Scholar International Scholar   Director of Clinical Education | Universidad Francisco Marrqouin   Trauma | Bioethics | Global Surgery | Chronic Diseases | Orthopedics   Guatemala GTM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Sergio Martinez is an orthopedic surgeon and the Director of Clinical Education at the Universidad Francisco Marrqouin (UFM) in Guatemala City, Guatemala. Early in Medical school, he was exposed to professionals practicing in different health systems at a local and international level. A global health conscience quickly became part of his everyday thinking and throughout all stages of his medical practice. Living in a country where cultural diversity is broad, globalized interactions must be put in the equation when dealing with health care. Global health is gaining momentum in the current curriculum at UFM where Dr Martinez oversees the clinical education program. person Yohana Mashalla, MD, PhD Yohana Mashalla, MD, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Professor of Biomedical Science | University of Botswana   Leadership | Monitoring & Evaulation | Program management   Angola | Botswana | Malawi | South Africa | Namibia | Tanzania, United Republic of | Zambia | Zimbabwe AGO||BWA||MWI||ZAF||NAM||TZA||ZMB||ZWE BIO STATEMENT: Currently I am the Dean, Faculty of Health Sciences involved in teaching, providing service and research and the Co-Director of the Afya Bora Consortium. The curricula for training of doctors, nurses and public health specialists in sub Saharan Africa are compact and do not prepare graduates to lead large global health programs in the region. We developed the Afya Bora Consortium Fellowship to strengthen health systems in the region as a strategy to bridge the leadership gap by training health professionals in leadership skills (communication, implementation science, budgeting and human resources management, program management, monitoring and evaluation, grant writing, etc). My major interests are program management and monitoring and evaluation. person Ryan J. McAuley, MD, MPH, FACP, FAAP Ryan J. McAuley, MD, MPH, FACP, FAAP Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Disaster response | Health and human rights | Humanitarian assistance | Refugee health   Vietnam VNM BIO STATEMENT: Ryan's global health interests focus on vulnerable populations, refugee and migrant health, disaster response, and medical education in developing settings. From 2014-2018, Ryan completed several missions with Medecins Sans Frontieres/Doctors Without Borders in South Sudan and Egypt. From 2019-2021, Ryan was based in Hanoi, Vietnam as part of the Vingroup-Penn Partnership and served as the first Program Director for the Internal Medicine Residency Program at VinUniversity. Ryan works clinically as an adult Oncology Hospitalist and serves as the Director of Operations for Global Graduate Medical Education with the Penn Center for Global Health. person Cramer A. McCullen, MD, MPH Cramer A. McCullen, MD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Health Equity | HIV/AIDS | Health Systems Strengthening   Guatemala | United States GTM||USA BIO STATEMENT: I believe that health and poverty are intertwined and that health is essential for the development of individuals, communities and countries. As such, I have spent significant time in Central America working on HIV surveillance, product development, and qualitative research to address health disparities for patients on the "borders", both physical and social, patients with intersectional identities like LGBT and Latinx subpopulations. I am seeking opportunities domestically and abroad to continue working with marginalized and under-resourced patient populations, aiming to eventually dedicate at least partial clinical time to improving healthcare delivery systems and developing health policy in a global context. person Mooketsi Molefi, MB ChB, MSCE Mooketsi Molefi, MB ChB, MSCE International Scholar International Scholar   Lecturer | University of Botswana Faculty of Medicine   Biostatistics | Epidemiology | Health Informatics   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: As a young academician and researcher, I aspire to grow professionally. My area of focus has largely been around HIV/AIDS particularly Cryptococcal disease research at clinical trials level. I have done some TB work with colleagues. Through this opportunity I would like to expand my scope to morbidity measures such as quality of life assessment for patients living with HIV/AIDS, TB and cancer I am also interested in health economic evaluations for some of the medical interventions against HIV/AIDS,TB and cancer for resource limited settings like Botswana. Collaboration with nternational researchers in any of these areas would be key. person Billy Morara Tsima, MD Billy Morara Tsima, MD International Scholar International Scholar   Senior Lecturer and Family Physician | University of Botswana   Maternal Child Health | Basic Life Support/Resuscitation | HIV/AIDS | Mental health   Botswana BWA BIO STATEMENT: As a family physician, my practice of medicine involves providing medical care to a wide variety of people. Serving in primary care settings provides a unique opportunity to interact with undifferentiated patients from different backgrounds. It became evident early in my exposure to this situation that equity in health is important and addressing it is an ongoing effort requiring a strong understanding of the context in which diseases occur as well as collaboration with others with different experiences.As a medical educator and researcher, my work brings me in contact with many others in the global health space. person Emmanuel Abraham Mpolya, PhD Emmanuel Abraham Mpolya, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Lecturer | Nelson Mandela African Institute of Science and Technology   Environmental health | Nutrition | Epidemiology | Biostatistics | HIV/AIDS   Tanzania, United Republic of TZA BIO STATEMENT: I have a Bachelor's degree in Nursing (University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania), a Masters of Medical Sciences (Tohoku University,Japan) and a PhD in Theoretical Epidemiology (Graduate University for Advanced Studies, Japan). Right after my first degree I was employed by the UW PEPFAR-funded International Training and Education Center for Health - ITECH in Tanzania as a Curriculum Assistant, my first involvement in Global Health. Currently I am a Lecturer at the Department of Global Health at NM-AIST and I'm working with several partners in Global Health. I have also just completed a Fellowship in Global Health Leadership with AfyaBora. person Pranay Nadella, MPhil Pranay Nadella, MPhil Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   MD Candidate | University of Pennsylvania   Health Systems Strengthening | Healthcare Policy | Community health   India | Tanzania, United Republic of | United States IND||TZA||USA BIO STATEMENT: I am a medical student at the University of Pennsylvania and I received my Masters in Epidemiology from the University of Cambridge as a Gates Cambridge Scholar. My passions are for improved healthcare delivery and health system strengthening in under-resourced settings. Specifically, I am interested in how the social determinants of health impede access to healthcare and how community-based interventions, like community health worker interventions, can overcome these determinants. Drawing upon my background in epidemiology, I use quantitative approaches and large datasets to explore the complexity underlying these questions in healthcare access and delivery. person Nhung Thi Nguyen Nhung Thi Nguyen International Scholar International Scholar   Physiology Faculty | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences   Vascular Calcification | Phosphate toxicity | Mitochondrial-related disease | Metabolic disease   Vietnam VNM BIO STATEMENT: I am Dr. Nhung Thi Nguyen, currently I am a lecturer in Physiology of the College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity. I have spent for more than 5 years doing research in Physiology to discover the potential therapeutic target for several metabolic diseases. My research concentrates on the toxicity high serum phosphate, particularly in the development of vascular calcification in patients with chronic kidney diseases (CKD). With the increasing number of CKD patients globally, I believe that my research highly contributes to curing a lot of complications found in these patients. In capstone project, he created a survey to screen for vision-related quality of life in homeless populations. Dr Andersen also spent two months in Botswana with the local leadership team of an eye health organization called Peek Vision, focusing on visual acuity screening for schoolchildren. He hopes to continue to work with organizations locally and internationally to develop interventions to address preventable blindness. person Huyen Thi Hoa Nguyen, PhD, RN Huyen Thi Hoa Nguyen, PhD, RN International Scholar International Scholar   Associate Professor | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences, Nursing   Women's health | Mental health | Chronic Diseases   Australia | Vietnam AUS||VNM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Huyen Nguyen has more than 15 years teaching in nursing field. With her research interests in chronic diseases, mental health and women's health, she has joined a number of national and international research projects. Currently, Dr Huyen is working as a nurse researcher and lecturer at VinUniversity, Vietnam. While joining in teaching nursing students, Dr Huyen has obtained a couple of internal and external research grants to conduct projects about mental health status of women after birth and of nurses working at frontline against Covid-19. person Edwin Nieblas-Bedolla MPH Edwin Nieblas-Bedolla MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   MD Candidate | University of Washington   Immigrant health | Health Disparities | Epidemiology | Medical Education | Medical anthropology | Neurological Surgery   Guatemala | Mexico GTM||MEX BIO STATEMENT: Edwin Nieblas-Bedolla is a medical student at the University of Washington. He is originally from Mexico. He completed undergraduate studies at the University of Arizona before pursuing graduate studies in public health at the University of Pennsylvania. He hopes to facilitate access to neurosurgical care for medically underserved communities and contribute to scientific scholarship aimed at improving overall patient care. His work has been published in several peer-reviewed journals including The Lancet, Nature Medicine, Neurosurgery, and others. His current academic interests include global neurosurgery, neuro-oncology, health disparities, and medical education. person Abass M. Noor, MD Abass M. Noor, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Health Disparities | Diagnostic Imaging | International Medical Education | Health Equity   Botswana | Ethiopia | United States BWA||ETH||USA BIO STATEMENT: Abass Noor, MD is a Somali-American resident in Diagnostic Radiology at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Noor completed his undergraduate education at Macalester College (St. Paul, MN) and received his medical degree from the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University (Providence, RI). Given his experiences as a refugee from Somalia, Dr. Noor has long held a passion for working toward a more equitable future for developing countries. His current interests are primarily in medical education and in implementing sustainable radiology services in resource-limited areas of the world, particularly in East Africa. person Joseph Nwadiuko, MD, MPH Joseph Nwadiuko, MD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Refugee health | Health Systems Strengthening   Mexico | South Africa | United States MEX||ZAF||USA BIO STATEMENT: Joseph Nwadiuko is a General Internal Medicine Fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. Having worked in 8 nations, his broad interest is in the intersection of global health systems, physician and patient migration, and behavioral economics. He has been published in JAMA, The Lancet, spoken at the State Department and USAID, and is an consultant for the World Bank Migration and Remittances Unit. His career goals involve academic service and health system strengthening in a LMIC context. He completed a MPH and his residency at Johns Hopkins, an MD at the University of Pittsburgh, and his BA at Amherst College. person Kevin Osterhoudt, MD, MSCE, FAAP, FAACT, FACMT Kevin Osterhoudt, MD, MSCE, FAAP, FAACT, FACMT Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Medical Director | The Poison Control Center at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.   International Medical Education | Pediatrics | Environmental health   United States USA BIO STATEMENT: As one of only 21 medical toxicologists certified by the American Board of Pediatrics since 2001, and as a former member of the Executive Committee of the AAP Council on Environmental Health, Dr. Osterhoudt is deeply committed to the environmental health of children worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that 26% of pediatric deaths are attributable to modifiable environmental factors. Having been recognized with hospital, university, and national teaching awards, Dr. Osterhoudt is also engaged in international medical education and pediatric care systems development. person Hansel J. Otero, MD Hansel J. Otero, MD Scholar Scholar   Director of International Pediatric Radiology Education and Outreach | Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.   Pediatric Radiology | International Medical Education   Ethiopia | Botswana | Malawi | Argentina | Peru ETH||BWA||MWI||ARG||PER BIO STATEMENT:Currently, I serve as the director of global education of outreach for the radiology department at CHOP and the Outreach lead of the World Federation of Pediatric Imaging and coordinate additional educational projects and teleradiology services for partners throughout the world. As a pediatric radiologist, I have also participated in educational pediatric radiology projects in Haiti, Ghana and Ethiopia among others. In the past, I practiced medicine in Venezuela and later as an emergency response physician with Doctors without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) in Liberia, Sudan, Angola, Pakistan and Yemen from 2002 to 2009. person Alex Oyengo Otieno, MPH Alex Oyengo Otieno, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Assistant Professor of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice | Arcadia University   Policy | Teaching | Health and human rights | Peace and Conflict | Sustainability   Botswana | Kenya | South Africa | Nigeria | United States BWA||KEN||ZAF||NGA||USA BIO STATEMENT: Alex Oyengo Otieno is an Assistant Professor of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice at Arcadia University. He is interested in global health policy with a focus on health and human rights, sustainable development and peace and security. He is particularly interested in the role of international higher education in contributing to public narrative on global health challenges and the role of storytelling and dialogue on peace-building and conflict transformation with a focus on Africa. His work also draws on and contributes to sustainable social transformation, the intersection of human rights and peace pedagogy and health promotion, intercultural and international communication, embodiment, and Pan-Africanism and regional integration. person Michael Owens, MD Michael Owens, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Emergency Physician | Naval Medical Center Portsmouth   Infectious disease | Emergency Medicine | Public Health | Medical Education | Disaster response   Angola | Vietnam | United States AGO||VNM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Owens is an Emergency Physician at the Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, Director of the Navy’s Global Health Fellowship, and Assistant Professor at the USU and EVMS. He received his MPH from the University of Massachusetts and CEM from IAEM. His is the current Medical Director for the Hampton Roads Metropolitan Medical Response Team. Dr. Owens recent duties include directing multiple workshops and response activities throughout Central America, Pacific, and Africa with a focus on LMIC. He supported the 2014 Ebola epidemic as Medical Coordinator for an ETU in Liberia. His work include multiple publications associated with this work. person Ellis Owusu-Dabo, MB ChB, PhD Ellis Owusu-Dabo, MB ChB, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Professor | Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology   Diabetes | Tuberculosis | Infectious disease   Ghana GHA BIO STATEMENT: As a scientist, public health consultant, and lecturer, Prof. Ellis Owusu-Dabo’s expertise is mainly in population genomics of type II diabetes and Tuberculosis in low-income settings. Over the last decade, he has gained extensive experience in teaching and research at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi. He has successfully secured funding and led research into genetic and immunologic factors of pulmonary tuberculosis and type II diabetes in collaborative research. As the current Dean of the School of Public Health, Ellis’s passion is in training the next generation of scientist to develop solutions to solve Africa’s problems. person Giacomo Maria Paganotti, PhD Giacomo Maria Paganotti, PhD Scholar Scholar   Adjunct Assistant Professor, Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases | University of Pennsylvania   HPV | Breast cancer | HIV/AIDS | Pharmacogenetics | Malaria   Botswana | Cameroon BWA||CMR BIO STATEMENT: My role in Botswana is to lead the Botswana-UPenn Partnership molecular laboratory (2014 to date). The main stakeholders are faculties and students from the local University of Botswana (Health Sciences, Biology, Medicine). In addition, we have collaborations with Penn, University of South Carolina, Duke University, McMaster University, the University of Rome La Sapienza (Italy) and many African institutions (in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Sudan, etc). While by background I am a malariologist, because of the health issues here, I have expanded my interests on pharmacogenetics of anti-infective treatments but also breast cancer, HPV, and other related fields, including HIV. person Alejandra Paniagua-Avila, MD, MPH Alejandra Paniagua-Avila, MD, MPH International Scholar International Scholar   Adjunct Fellow | Center for Public Health Initiatives at the University of Pennsylvania   Non-communicable disease | Implementation research | Community health   Guatemala GTM BIO STATEMENT: Alejandra is the Research Director and an investigator at FUNSALUD, an NGO focused on providing primary healthcare, conducting public health research and building local capacity for research. Alejandra is interested in identifying determinants across the life course to prevent and manage non-communicable diseases. She is passionate about implementing culturally-appropriate and evidence-based interventions that reach the most under-served communities of Central America. Alejandra received an MPH from the University of Pennsylvania as a Fogarty International Center Trainee and a Medical Degree from Universidad Francisco Marroquin, Guatemala. person Brianna E. Parsons VMD, MSEd Brianna E. Parsons VMD, MSEd Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Lecturer in Sustainable Agriculture | School of Veterinary Medicine - New Bolton Center   Social Entrepreneurship | Maternal and Child Nutrition | Environmental and Planetary Health   Gambia | Botswana GMB||BWA person Jennifer Prah, PhD Jennifer Prah, PhD Scholar Scholar   Professor of Health Equity, Economics, and Policy | University of Pennsylvania   Governance | Social determinants of health | Health and human rights | Healthcare Financing | Healthcare Access | Healthcare Policy   India | Ghana | Indonesia | Malawi | Morocco | United States | Korea, Republic of | South Africa | Vietnam | Senegal IND||GHA||IDN||MWI||MAR||USA||KOR||ZAF||VNM||SEN BIO STATEMENT: Jennifer Prah is a leading scholar of global and domestic health policy and public health. She conducts theoretical and empirical studies of health equity to reduce global and national health inequities with a focus on the most impoverished populations worldwide, especially women and children. Dr. Prah’s scholarship has scrutinized the existing global health architecture to identify more effective global health policy responses linking public policy and law to global health theory at global and national levels. Her research is conducted internationally and nationally, including in Ghana, India, Indonesia, Malawi, Malaysia, Morocco, South Korea, South Africa, United States and Vietnam. person Madiha Raees, MD Madiha Raees, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Division of Critical Care Medicine, Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care Medicine, The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia   Brain Injury | Neurocritical Care | Malaria | Implementation Science | Pediatrics   Malawi MWI BIO:Madiha Raees, MD joined the Division of Critical Care Medicine at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia as an attending physician and clinical instructor in summer 2021. Outside of her clinical work in pediatric intensive care unit, she has a deep interest in optimizing healthcare provision for children in variably resourced regions. She is currently studying proposed biomarkers of brain injury in the cerebral malaria population as potential surrogates for advanced imaging and predictors of neurological outcome. Her work is based in Blantyre, Malawi and she works closely with the Blantyre Malaria Project. person Jesse M. Raiten, MD Jesse M. Raiten, MD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Clinical Anesthesiology and Critical Care | University of Pennsylvania   Anesthesiology and Critical Care | Quality Improvement   Malaysia | Nepal | Rwanda MYS||NPL||RWA BIO STATEMENT: My work in global health focuses on educational development and capacity building in anesthesiology and critical care in Africa and Asia, most recently in Rwanda, Nepal and Malaysia. I strive to collaborate with local physicians and health care providers to improve quality of care and operational flow in the operating rooms and intensive care units, develop quality assurance programs, as well as assist with locally conducted clinical research. person Michael N. Rubenstein, MD Michael N. Rubenstein, MD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Clinical Neurology | University of Pennsylvania   Neurology | Low-resource Settings | Medical Education   Tanzania, United Republic of | United States TZA||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Michael Rubenstein has traveled to Northern Tanzania twice annually for the last decade to provide neurological education to community caregivers at a rural clinic as well as to provide care to neurological patients in the district of Karatu, Tanzania. He has worked with the Foundation for African Medicine and Education (FAME), a non-profit, NGO that provides healthcare to this region of Northern Tanzania. He currently brings four residents and a medical student from Penn/CHOP for each trip of a month in the spring and fall. person Megan Rybarczyk, MD, MPH Megan Rybarczyk, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine   Development | Education | Emergency Care Systems   Pakistan | Bangladesh PAK||BGD BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Megan Rybarczyk, MD, MPH is working to develop Global Emergency Medicine programming for residents, fellows, and faculty within the Department of Emergency Medicine at Penn Medicine, where she is currently an Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine. Throughout her career, her work in Global Emergency Medicine has involved research, education, clinical care, and/or disaster response in countries such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, Dominica, Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti, Honduras, India, Pakistan, South Africa, and Uganda. Her work is focused primarily on education and training as well as emergency care systems development. person Julia R. Schiff, MD,MPH Julia R. Schiff, MD,MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | Emergency Medicine, University of Pennsylvania   Medical Education | Humanitarian Emergencies | Infectious disease | Environmental health   United States | Ghana | Pakistan USA||GHA||PAK BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Julia Schiff is an Internal Medicine physician and current Emergency Medicine resident at the University of Pennsylvania and has an MPH in Global Health. Her interests include the intersections of complex humanitarian emergencies, climate change/natural disasters, and the impact on human health including infectious diseases and trauma burden. She has been involved in projects, clinical care, and educational endeavors related to refugee/immigrant health, HIV/TB/tropical medicine, wilderness, and culturally competent care strategies. She is additionally engaged in educational activities and the creation of materials related to the development of and training for global medical health systems. person Heather Schofield, PhD Heather Schofield, PhD Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor, Medical Ethics and Health Policy | University of Pennsylvania   Nutrition | Sleep | Social determinants of health | Health economics   India | Bangladesh IND||BGD BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Schofield is an economist studying development, health, and behavioral economics. Two primary ongoing areas of research include the role of health human capital (nutrition, pain management, adequate sleep) in economic productivity, cognitive function, and decision-making and the role of financial and social incentives in promoting healthy behaviors. Dr. Schofield completed her Ph.D. in Business Economics, MS in Global Health and Population, and BA in Economics at Harvard University. person Alex Shpenev, PhD Alex Shpenev, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Postdoctoral Fellow | Populations Studies Center at the University of Pennsylvania   Socioeconomic Inequality | Health Behavior | Social determinants of health | Social Networks | Non-communicable disease   India | Russian Federation | United States IND||RUS||USA BIO STATEMENT: A demographer and sociologist with a PhD from the University of Pennsylvania and an MA in Statistics from the Wharton School, Dr. Shpenev teaches the MBDS elective Statistical Reasoning for Behavioral Science. Since coming to Penn, his interests have included understanding the educational gradient in health and mortality, specifically at the intersection with the sociology of the family and social networks. As a Postdoctoral Fellow in PennSoNG, Dr. Shpenev investigates how social norms and social networks are linked to latrine use and better sanitation practices in India. person Lawrence Shulman, MD Lawrence Shulman, MD Scholar Scholar   Professor of Medicine | University of Pennsylvania   Implementation research | Global Oncology | Delivery infrastructure   Botswana | Greece | Haiti | Rwanda BWA||GRC||HTI||RWA BIO STATEMENT: I am Deputy Director for Clinical Services, and Director, Center for Global Cancer Medicine in the Abramson Cancer Center at Penn. I am a practicing medical oncologist with a specialization in breast cancer. I have worked with Paul Farmer's organization, Partners In Health, in Rwanda and Haiti since 2011, helping to lead the establishment of cancer programs at both sites. Since coming to Penn I have engaged in similar work in Botswana. I have also worked with WHO to update the Essential Medicines List for Cancer. I serve on the International Affairs Committee of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. person Zarrin Seema Sididqui, MD, PhD Zarrin Seema Sididqui, MD, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   MD Program Director | College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity   Mental health | Women's health   Australia | Pakistan | Vietnam AUS||PAK||VNM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Siddiqui is leading the MD Program at VinUniversity. She is a Psychiatrist with a PhD in Medical Education. Her career started as a medical educator at the WHO Collaborating Centre in the EMRO region followed by British Council and AusAID Fellowships. Before joining VinUniversity, she worked as assessment lead at the University of western Australia for 16 years. Dr. Siddiqui has received numerous awards/nominations for Excellence in teaching and supervision. Her two projects were shortlisted for Ronald Harden Innovation in Medical Education (RHIME) internationally. As a Board member of Multicultural services Centre of Western Australia and President of Pakistanis in Australia group, she has been working in the areas of migrant health and support. Her research focuses on planning, development and implementation of global health programs with a focus on mental health. person Ian S. Soriano FACS, FASMBS, FPALES Ian S. Soriano FACS, FASMBS, FPALES Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Associate Professor of Clinical Surgery | University of California San Francisco, ACS-NSQIP Surgeon Champion and APP Lead Physician at UCSF-Parnassus   Laparoscopic Surgery | Robotic Surgery   Philippines PHL BIO STATEMENT: I completed medical school in the Philippines and migrated to the US in 2000. After surgical residency and fellowship, I have collaborated with surgeons in the Philippines and Southeast Asia on education and training in laparoscopic and robotic surgery for the past 12 years. My joint appointment at the University of the Philippines since 2012 allowed me to participate in educational, clinical, and research projects at the university and affiliated Philippine General Hospital. More recently, my advocacy for a partnership between UPenn and UP Manila resulted in a formal agreement that encompasses clinical, research and other scholarly activities. person Juan Manuel Sotelo, MD, PhD, MPH Juan Manuel Sotelo, MD, PhD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   PAHO/WHO Director Subregional Program for Central American and the Dominican Republic   Universal Health | Multilateral and Bilateral Technical Cooperation | Strategic Planning | Resource Mobilization   Argentina | Barbados | Bolivia (Plurinational State of) | Brazil | Chile | El Salvador | Guatemala | Honduras | Mexico | Tunisia ARG||BRB||BOL||BRA||CHL||SLV||GTM||HND||MEX||TUN BIO STATEMENT:Juan Manuel Sotelo is a senior international public health professional who has devoted his career to promoting equity, development, and universal health. An experienced director of national and cross-national programs throughout South and Central America and the Caribbean, he has overseen the political, technical, and managerial aspects of PAHO/WHO operations in Bolivia, Mexico, Argentina, and Chile. He held similar directorships for the Eastern Caribbean and recently completed an assignment to coordinate the PAHO/WHO eight-country Sub-Regional Program for Central America. He has been head of the Department of External Relations, Resource Mobilization, and Partnerships. He has an MD, Ph.D., MPH. person David A. Spiegel, MD David A. Spiegel, MD Scholar Scholar   Attending Surgeon | Division of Orthopaedics at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia   Pediatrics | Global Surgery | Orthopedics   China | India | Iran (Islamic Republic of) | Iraq | Mongolia | Pakistan | Nepal | Somalia CHN||IND||IRN||IRQ||MNG||PAK||NPL||SOM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Spiegel has been active in surgical care in LMICs for > 20 years, mainly in Nepal at the Hospital and Rehabilitation Centre for Disabled Children. He is also an honorary professor at the University of Basra In Basra, Iraq. He has served on national committees (POSNA, AAOS) concerning service/teaching in LMICs. He served as a consultant for WHO in Mongolia/Somalia, was on the steering committee for the WHO’s Global Initiative for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care, and has delivered more than 300 lectures including Nepal, Iran, Iraq, China, Pakistan, Tanzania, Mongolia and Somalia. He has also co-edited a textbook “Global Orthopaedics: Caring for Musculoskeletal Conditions and Injuries in Austere Settings”. He has been the recipient of five 5 national/international humanitarian awards. person Andrew P. Steenhoff, MBBCh, DCH Andrew P. Steenhoff, MBBCh, DCH Scholar Scholar   Attending Physician | Division of Infectious Diseases at Children's Hospital   Pediatrics | Partnerships | HIV/AIDS | Tuberculosis   Ethiopia | Botswana | Dominican Republic | Nigeria ETH||BWA||DOM||NGA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Andrew Steenhoff MBBCh, FAAP trained at the Univ. of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. After completing pediatric residencies at Chris-Hani Baragwanath Hospital & Albert Einstein Medical Center, Philadelphia, he did Infectious Diseases Fellowship at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), then was based in Botswana for 7.5 years as Associate Country Director & Research Director, Botswana-UPenn Partnership. In 7/2015, he was appointed Medical Director of CHOP’s Global Health Center. Andrew combines clinical, public health and research skills to improve pediatric outcomes in low and middle-income countries. His research focuses on pediatric infectious diseases with a particular interest in tuberculosis, HIV, pneumonia and gastroenteritis. Andrew is the author of over 100 peer-reviewed manuscripts and book chapters. He teaches and mentors students, residents and fellows in Botswana, the Dominican Republic and Philadelphia. He is an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at UPenn, Adjunct Senior Lecturer, University of Botswana, and a member of the American Board of Pediatrics Global Health Task Force. person Boris Striepen, PhD Boris Striepen, PhD Scholar Scholar   Mark Whittier and Lila Griswold Allam Professor of Microbiology and Immunology | University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine   Diarrheal disease | Malnutrition | Tropical diseases | OneHealth   United States USA BIO STATEMENT:Boris grew up in Ruhrort where the German rivers Rhine and Ruhr meet, an industrial area then dominated by coal and steel. He studied biology at the universities of Bonn and Marburg and conducted undergrad research on liver flukes in Bonn and Nagana in Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso. Boris earned a PhD summa cum laude for work on parasite biochemistry with Ralph Schwarz, was a postdoc with David Roos studying parasite cell biology, prior to starting his laboratory at the Center for Tropical & Emerging Global Diseases at the University of Georgia in 2000, where he last was a Distinguished Research Professor. In 2017 he joined the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania. Boris studies the cell and molecular biology of apicomplexan parasites. His current research focus is the parasite Cryptosporidium, a leading global cause of diarrhea and mortality in young children. His lab pioneered molecular genetics for this important infection and leads a range of interdisciplinary efforts to understand fundamental parasite biology and to advance translation towards drugs and vaccines. Boris is also engaged in education and training. He taught undergraduate and graduate classes, directed NIH training grant programs in parasitology, and served as faculty and director of the Biology of Parasitism summer research course at the Marine Biology Laboratories in Woods Hole, MA. Boris is married to a social worker with remarkable patience for scientists and has three children, two are scientists – all are awesome. person Tausi Suedi, MPH Tausi Suedi, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Adjunct Professor of Global Health | Towson University   Reproductive health | Adolescent health | Maternal Child Health | Child Health | Community health   Rwanda | Somalia | Tanzania, United Republic of | Uganda RWA||SOM||TZA||UGA BIO STATEMENT: Ms. Tausi Suedi is a passionate, culturally diverse, multilingual, and experienced global public health leader with more than 15 years of global health experience. Her focus areas in global health are rooted in purposeful and collaborative efforts to improve and strengthen quality of health services, resources, and information provided and delivered to benefit women, newborns, children, adolescents/youth, and the elderly in marginalized communities. Professor Suedi launched and teaches global health at Towson University. She believes global health challenges can be resolved through social status elevation of women and girls, political will, practical leadership, and incorporating health in all policies. person Bruno Fokas Sunguya, MD, MSc, PhD Bruno Fokas Sunguya, MD, MSc, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Director of Research and Publications   Non-communicable disease | Nutrition | HIV/AIDS | Maternal Child Health   Tanzania, United Republic of TZA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Sunguya is a Senior lecturer of Public Health Nutrition, and the Director of Research and Publications at MUHAS., and a Visiting Associate Professor of Kumamoto University (Japan). His research areas include Nutrition, Adolescent, Maternal and Child Health, and HIV/AIDS, conducted and disseminated widely in more than 60 papers, and chapters. He serves as an Associate Editor for the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition and BMC nutrition journal; a member of number of national committees; the WHO Nutrition Guidance Expert Advisory Group-Subgroup on Diet and Health; chairs the REC; and a contact person for research and grants for MUHAS person JaBaris Demond Swain, MD, MPH JaBaris Demond Swain, MD, MPH Scholar Scholar   Clinical Associate Surgeon   Cardiothoracic Surgery | Public Health | Global Surgery   Haiti | Rwanda HTI||RWA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Swain is a cardiothoracic transplant surgeon-scientist and global health scholar with a dedicated focus on humanitarian cardiac surgery, cardiology education and global public health. His work focuses exclusively on augmenting access to clinical education and care delivery for cardiovascular diseases within resource-limited settings such as Rwanda and Haiti. He has lived in these areas and provided support to a number of projects designed to strengthen health care infrastructures for critically vulnerable populations in resource constrained settings as well as participated in the provision of surgery and critical care to patients in these regions. person Jordan W. Swanson, MD, MSc Jordan W. Swanson, MD, MSc Scholar Scholar   Linton Whitaker Endowed Chair of Craniofacial Surgery | Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia   Human-Centered Program Design | Global Surgery | Evidence-based Practices   Guatemala | Honduras | Indonesia | Nicaragua | Madagascar | Jordan | Paraguay | Philippines GTM||HND||IDN||NIC||MDG||JOR||PRY||PHL BIO STATEMENT: My innovation and research initiatives are focused principally on how surgical care can be better adapted to low-resource settings, through design of clinical devices and techniques, locally-driven leadership and team capability strengthening, and reorienting care pathways appropriate to local contexts and resources. I previously worked and lived in Nicaragua, collaborating with Operation Smile and the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health to build a joint Comprehensive Cleft and Craniofacial program, and am the primary investigator of the Cirugia Para el Pueblo (Surgery for the People) pilot program to advance the access to and impact of rural surgical care in Nicaragua. person Jessica Taaffe, PhD Jessica Taaffe, PhD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Global Health and Science Consultant   HIV/AIDS | Capacity-building | Malaria | global health diplomacy | Public Health | Tuberculosis | OneHealth | Global Health Security   Azerbaijan | Belarus | Georgia | Moldova, Republic of | Romania | South Africa AZE||BLR||GEO||MDA||ROU||ZAF BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Jessica Taaffe is on a mission to advance global health through science. A microbiologist by training, her biomedical expertise is in infectious disease, with a focus on HIV and malaria immunopathogenesis in human and non-human primates. After earning her PhD from the University of Pennsylvania and post-doctoral work at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. Taaffe started her career at the intersect of science and global health. She works with researchers and policymakers alike to evaluate, interpret, communicate, and apply scientific evidence in global health programs and policy. She has done so on diverse projects and topics, including HIV implementation science, social protection programs, global health advocacy, and building research capacity. Her work has included projects in sub-Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia, and with government, academia, and non-governmental and multilateral organizations such as WHO, UNAIDS, and World Bank. In 2016, Dr. Taaffe served as a Scientific Program Planning Committee Member for the 2016 International AIDS Conference in Durban, South Africa. Dr. Taaffe is also passionate about strengthening the scientific community’s voice on public platforms. She uses social media to share her opinions on science and global health and has been featured in podcasts like The Circus Life and Talk Nerdy with Cara Santa Maria. She was a science correspondent and host of the YouTube show This Week in Global Health. Her opinion pieces have been published in leading science and health media outlets such as PLoS Blogs and Global Health Now. Dr. Taaffe has also given seminars and guest lectures on global health topics at local universities, including University of Maryland, Johns Hopkins University, and Virginia Tech. She was named among 100 Women Leaders in Global Health in 2014 by The Graduate Institute Geneva and is currently an IF/THEN Ambassador, serving as a Women in STEM role model for girls. person Andrew W. Taylor-Robinson, PhD Andrew W. Taylor-Robinson, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Professor of Microbiology and Immunology | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences   Infectious disease | Infection Control & Prevention | Immunology | Arboviruses | Epidemiology | Dengue | mosquito-transmitted diseases | Malaria | Antimicrobial Resistance   Australia | Bangladesh | Ethiopia | India | Indonesia | Iraq | Nepal | Malaysia | Nigeria | Pakistan | Philippines | Sri Lanka | United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | Vietnam AUS||BGD||ETH||IND||IDN||IRQ||NPL||MYS||NGA||PAK||PHL||LKA||GBR||VNM person Harsha Thirumurthy, PhD Harsha Thirumurthy, PhD Scholar Scholar   Associate Professor of Medical Ethics and Health Policy | University of Pennsylvania   Health economics | Nutrition | HIV/AIDS | Non-communicable disease   India | Kenya | Uganda | Zimbabwe IND||KEN||UGA||ZWE BIO STATEMENT: Professor Thirumurthy’s interests lie at the intersection of economics and public health. His research seeks to design and evaluate interventions to promote health behaviors in low-income settings, particularly eastern and southern Africa. His work has focused on medication adherence, HIV prevention and treatment, and behaviors related to maternal and child health. He has led several randomized trials of interventions to promote takeup and use of health services and technologies. His research has also assessed impacts of large-scale health initiatives such as PEPFAR and the President’s Malaria Initiative. Currently he is leading projects in India, Kenya, Uganda, and Zimbabwe. person Agin G. Thomas, MD Agin G. Thomas, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Mental health | Wellness Programs   United States USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Agin Thomas is currently a fourth year chief resident in the Penn Department of Psychiatry. He is interested in exploring global mental health initiatives and establishing programs that would allow other trainees to address the global mental health crisis. Dr Thomas has a strong interest in wellness, as well. He is the co-founder of Penn’s Psychiatry Residency Wellness Committee, co-facilitator of the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) course at Penn CAPS for Penn undergraduate and graduate students, and a certified yoga instructor. Dr Thomas is a captain in the United States Air Force and will be an active duty psychiatrist in July 2020. person Duong Thi Bich Thuan Duong Thi Bich Thuan International Scholar International Scholar   Senior Lecturer, Biochemistry | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences   Oxidative Stress | Herbal Medicine | Global Cardiovascular Disease | Cancer epidemiology   Vietnam VNM BIO STATEMENT: Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Biochemistry, College of Health Sciences, VinUniversity, Hanoi Vietnam person Sarah A. Tishkoff, PhD Sarah A. Tishkoff, PhD Scholar Scholar   David and Lyn Silfen Professor, Genetics and Biology | University of Pennsylvania   Genomics | Population Genetics   Ethiopia | Kenya | Tanzania, United Republic of | Botswana | Cameroon ETH||KEN||TZA||BWA||CMR person Uamunovandu Tjinjeka, MD Uamunovandu Tjinjeka, MD International Scholar International Scholar   Lecturer | University of Botswana, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Surgery   Cleft Palate & Lip | craniosynostosis | Pediatric Plastic Surgery   Botswana BWA Bio:A cleft lip and palate programme doesn't exist in Botswana. Children born with these conditions go untreated or rely on humanitarian surgeons for help, which is often discontinuous and insufficient. As Botswana's first plastic and reconstructive surgeon, I'm compelled to start a comprehensive cleft unit. Given the magnitude of this problem, it is an issue I cannot address alone. Therefore, I wish to collaborate with well-established programs. Through the Penn CGH, I can connect and learn from global surgery experts as I work toward setting up a cleft care unit for children in Botswana and the rest of Africa. person Maurizio Trevisan MD, MS Maurizio Trevisan MD, MS International Scholar International Scholar   Dean of Health Sciences | VinUniversity   Disease Prevention | Epidemiology | Chronic Diseases   Vietnam | United States VNM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr Maurizio Trevisan is the Dean of Health Sciences at VinUniversity. He is a cardiovascular disease epidemiologist interested in ways to prevent CVD through changes in life style habits. He has been engaged in a number of international epidemiological collaborative studies. In his current position in Vietnam, he is focused on Chronic Disease prevention in a country in transition with a significant shift in the leading causes of mortality and morbidity. As a researcher, he has authored more than 250 publications, which have appeared in such high-impact journals as the "Journal of the American Medical Association," "Annals of Internal Medicine" and "The New England Journal of Medicine." He has extensive experience directing and conducting multi-center and international collaborative studies, as well. person Cesar Ugarte-Gil, MD, MSc, PhD Cesar Ugarte-Gil, MD, MSc, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Assistant Professor | Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia   Tropical Medicine | COVID-19 | HIV/AIDS | Tuberculosis   Peru PER BIO STATEMENT: In the last 15 years, after finishing medical school at Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia (UPCH), I worked in Tuberculosis (TB) research, participating at the Institute of Tropical Medicine Alexander von Humboldt (IMTAvH) at the UPCH in several TB diagnostic and epidemiological studies. I hold a MSc in Epidemiology from London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and a PhD in Global Diseases Epidemiology and Control from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. My main research interests in Tuberculosis are non-communicable comorbidities (including diabetes mellitus and depression) and diagnostic trials. Other research interests include HIV/AIDS, tropical diseases and COVID-19. person Amelia Van Pelt, PhD, MPH Amelia Van Pelt, PhD, MPH Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Postdoctoral Fellow in Implementation Science | University of Pennsylvania   Vaccines | Low-resource Settings | Epidemiology | Infectious disease   United States | Nigeria | Zambia USA||NGA||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: Amelia E. Van Pelt, Ph.D., MPH, is a postdoctoral fellow in Implementation Science at the University of Pennsylvania. She holds additional appointments as an Associate Scholar in the Penn Center for Global Health and at the Center for Public Health Initiatives. Dr. Van Pelt holds a BA in Spanish & Global Health, Culture, and Society, a certificate in Leadership, and an MPH in Global Health from Emory University as well as a Ph.D. in Epidemiology from the University of Pennsylvania. She has experience in research and applied work in Latin America and Africa, as well as surveillance on a global scale. Her skills extend from laboratory sciences to statistical analyses, and she has collaborated with interdisciplinary teams in academic, government, and not-for-profit organizations. Her research interests include global health, infectious diseases, and outbreak response. She is building a research program at the intersection of epidemiology and implementation science in resource-limited settings. Specifically, she aims to collaborate with stakeholders to increase the uptake of evidence-based practices for infectious diseases in humanitarian emergencies. Amelia was selected as the 2021 recipient of the Penn GGEB Tom TenHave Student Leadership Award. Amelia was recognized for her exceptional contributions to the leadership of the graduate program and the local and international community. Amelia was one of five trainees awarded The Distinguished Research Trainee Award person Laura Vanderbloemen, PhD Laura Vanderbloemen, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Assistant Professor | VinUniversity College of Health Sciences   Child Health | Healthy and Active Ageingg | Refugee health | Mental health   United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | United States GBR||USA BIO STATEMENT: Dr Laura Vanderbloemen is Assistant Professor in the College of Health Sciences (CHS) at VinUniversity in Vietnam. She is co-PI for the VinCohort Study, in partnership with Vinmec Healthcare. She leads the Epidemiology and Research Methods courses for the CHS. Before joining the Faculty she led Imperial College London’s Research Design team via a collaborative project led by King’s College London, in partnership with Imperial, UCL and Queen Mary University of London, providing study design guidance to National Health Service (NHS) staff, scientists, and health technology companies focused on improving patient and public health through applied health research person Angel Velarde Lopez, MD, MSCE Angel Velarde Lopez, MD, MSCE International Scholar International Scholar   Department Director of Research | Liga Nacional Contra el Cáncer   Epidemiology | Global Oncology   Guatemala GTM BIO STATEMENT: Dr. Velarde’s medical expertise areas include epidemiology, statistics, pneumonia, and vitamin D. He received his medical degree from University of San Carlos School of Medicine. Through a scholarship from the NIH, he received a Masters of Science in Clinical Epidemiology from the University of Pennsylvania where he was mentored by Dr. Brian L. Strom. He has worked for AbbVie and assisted in presenting the AbbVie’s pipeline drugs protocols for phase 1- 3 studies. He also working with infectious diseases and cancer, and is the Department Director of Research at Liga Nacional Contra el Cáncer in Guatemala. person Rohit Verma, PhD Rohit Verma, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Provost | VinUniversity   Patient Experience | Wellness Programs | Quality Improvement | Healthcare Delivery   Vietnam | United States VNM||USA BIO STATEMENT: Professor Rohit Verma is the Provost of VinUniversity and Dean of External Relations and Singapore Tourism Board Distinguished Professor at the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business, Cornell University. Throughout his career, Professor Verma has led several major research centers and programs, including serving as the Founding Executive Director, Cornell Institute for Healthy Futures; and Executive Director, Cornell Center for Hospitality Research. In addition to Cornell University, Professor Verma has taught at major universities around the world including University of Sydney, Norwegian School of Logistics, Korea University, Indian School of Business, University of Utah and DePaul University. person Douglas J. Wiebe, PhD Douglas J. Wiebe, PhD Scholar Scholar   Professor of Biostatistics and Epidemiology | University of Pennsylvania   Trauma | Emergency Medicine | Epidemiology | Injury Prevention | Healthcare Access   Botswana | Kenya | Poland | Tanzania, United Republic of | Zambia BWA||KEN||POL||TZA||ZMB BIO STATEMENT: Douglas Wiebe, PhD, is a Professor of Biostatistics and Epidemiology at the Perlman School of Medicine. Dr. Wiebe leads studies of how places, policies and the locations where people spend time have implications for injury risks and health. He teaches courses on epidemiologic methods and on the study of geography and health. He also directs a training program funded by the Fogarty International Center at the NIH. This program acts as a catalytic agent to establish an extended research group in Botswana to address some of its pressing injury, violence, and trauma care problems. person Victoria Leigh Williams, MD Victoria Leigh Williams, MD Scholar Scholar   Assistant Professor of Clinical Dermatology | University of Pennsylvania   Technology in Low Resource Settings | International Medical Education | HIV/AIDS | Telemedicine | Healthcare Access | Albinism   Botswana | Tanzania, United Republic of | Nepal | South Africa | Congo, Democratic Republic of the BWA||TZA||NPL||ZAF||COD BIO STATEMENT:Dr. Williams is a dermatologist with a broad interest in public health, HIV, neglected tropical diseases, albinism, healthcare access, medical education, and eHealth. She has worked in a variety of global health settings in Central/South America, Africa and Asia since 2008. She worked full-time in Botswana from 2016 – 2018 as the Site Director for Botswana UPenn Partnership’s Dermatology Program and Head of Dermatology at Princess Marina Hospital. From 2018 – 2020 she was an Assistant Professor of Dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania, Co-Director of the Penn Dermatology Global Health Track and Director of the Botswana UPenn Parnership’s Dermatology Program. Her desire to make a long-term impact on public health has lead to her current position as a Director in Global Regulatory Affairs for Vaccines and Infectious Disease at Merck, where she works on the development of HIV and small molecule antiviral therapeutics. Dr. Williams continues her global health work through clinical, research and educational collaborations and global health organizational roles including Co-Directing the American Academy of Dermatology’s Resident International Grant Program. person Matthew Winterton, MD Matthew Winterton, MD Associate Scholar Associate Scholar   Resident Physician | University of Pennsylvania   Technology in Low Resource Settings | Orthopedics | Global Surgery | Healthcare Access   Madagascar MDG BIO STATEMENT: I am a faculty member as a Lecturer in Foreign Languages at the Penn Language Center, where I founded and have taught Malagasy, the indigenous language of Madagascar, for the past 5 years. Our program has grown to 2 faculty members and about 70 students across 5 classes, spanning Beginning through Advanced Malagasy; we recently had 3 Foreign Language Area Studies (FLAS) fellows named from our students. Additionally, I am a resident in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery here at Penn. I am working to bridge the global surgery/orthopedics gap mainly in Africa through technology. person Jing Zhao, MD, PhD Jing Zhao, MD, PhD International Scholar International Scholar   Neurologist | Minhang Hospital of Fudan University   Stroke   China CHN BIO STATEMENT: I am a neurologist at the Minhang Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University. I am mainly engaged in the acute treatment of stroke. Stroke is still the leading cause of death and disability in China. Ischemic stroke consists of about 80% of the all the stroke victims. While tPA and thromboectomy are available for ischemic stroke, however, thrombolytic therapy rate remains very low, one of the major causes is pre-hospital delay. Such pre-hospital delay is largely due to poor awareness and poor usage of emergency medical system. Because of the language barrier, it is difficult for the Chinese to master FAST, the most commonly used in the United States. To address this, I am working with closely with PSOM's Dr. Renyu Liu, MD, PhD, an outstanding physician scientist to create novel strategies to deal with this global medical problem. person Where we work Showing Global Health Scholar Worldwide Select a scholar: All Name OR Search Description: Affiliation: About affilitation types Any Scholar Associate Scholar International Scholar Research Affiliate Programs & Partnerships Country: All Country Clear Close modal dialog"> Affiliation Types Scholar Associate, Adjunct, and Emeriti Penn faculty who have displayed significant global health activity. Associate Scholar All other individuals at Penn and other US institutions (academic, governmental, not-for-profit or corporate) who hold a secondary degree (Masters, MD, PhD, etc), or commensurate global service experience, and who desire to expand their global health awareness and partnership with Penn International Scholar Individuals with a primary appointment at a non-US institution (academic, governmental, non-profit or corporate) and who work collaboratively with the CGH, CGH Scholars or Associate Scholars and/or trainees in either research, education, advocacy, and/or patient care mission Research Affiliates Others conducting global health research at Penn Programs & Partnerships A collection of global health activities that include Memorandums of Understanding, Training Opportunities. Close Upcoming Events  View All Events CGH News @ Penn @UPennCGH Tomorrow, 9am EST. Join the Center as we host Dr. Michelle Johnson, Ph.D. For her presentation, "Affordable Rehabil… https://t.co/mo3IO8E9aa @UPennCGH RT @PennMedicine: TODAY, 12pm EST: Dr. @CghGaulton will discuss how @UPennCGH works with global partners to start medical schools and… https://t.co/vQwYF5TF00 @UPennCGH Penn Medicine and CHOP Announce Partnership with Costa Rica for CAR T Cell Therapy https://t.co/RaIqsUmGe2 via @PennMedicine  View More Tweets Penn Student Travel Info COVID-19 Travel Guidance Opportunities Register Your Trip  View More Travel Info Penn Student Travel Info COVID-19 Travel Guidance Opportunities Register Your Trip  View More Travel Info Contact Us Make a Gift Become a CGH Scholar Join Our List View Our Sitemap © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.