Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home About Core Values Texas A&M University Purpose Statement To develop leaders of character dedicated to serving the greater good Core Values Our purpose statement carries with it the responsibility, the traditions and the forward-thinking of Texas A&M exemplified by all who are associated with the university — our faculty and staff, and our current and former students. This purpose can be defined by our six core values. EXCELLENCE Excellence stems from a great sense of pride in who we are and what we believe in. - Former Texas A&M President Dr. Robert Gates There's an optimism, a faith in the future and an attitude that propels Aggies to take on the impossible — look at Red/White/Blue-Out. - Texas A&M leadership We could do just about anything if we tried hard enough. - Former student Center for Teaching Excellence Honors and Undergraduate Research Texas A&M University Vision 2020 Plan Texas A&M University Research INTEGRITY The Aggie Code of Honor which Aggies recite by heart: 'Aggies do not lie, cheat or steal nor tolerate those that do' shows what goes to the heart of being an Aggie. - Texas A&M leadership Integrity was the core value that A&M gave me more of than any other. It helped me succeed in my career because my fellow professionals, clients and friends knew that they could rely on me and my word. - Former student Aggie Honor System Office Texas A&M University Code of Conduct LEADERSHIP If you don't want to be a leader of character, don't come here. - Former Corps Commandant LTG John Van Alstyne The spirit of leadership is instilled in every student — whether they go on to lead in the boardroom or in the backyard — they have the values, the confidence and the experience to lead change in their world. - Texas A&M leadership Texas A&M Student Government Association Memorial Student Center LOYALTY Through unity, strength. - Texas A&M University Corps of Cadets Motto I'm proud to be a part of a family that will always be there for me that's 48,000 members strong ... and that's not counting all those that came before or will come after. - Current Texas A&M student Loyalty and respect for tradition is about a sense of belonging to something greater than yourself. You're a part of a history of traditions ... of a larger community. - Former Executive Vice President and Provost Dr. David Prior Association of Former Students Texas A&M Traditions RESPECT A&M students aren't just joining a university, they're joining a lifelong family that understands the value of loyalty, camaraderie, and unconditional support. - Texas A&M leadership A&M students embody a refreshing spirit: born of the values of friendliness, caring, support, confidence and a can-do attitude. - Former student Aggie Muster Diversity at Texas A&M SELFLESS SERVICE If I had to tell you about Aggie values in one sentence I would simply ask the question: How can I be of service? - Current Texas A&M student A&M encourages volunteerism, encourages being one of a thousand points of light, helping others ... and it comes naturally to Aggies. - Former U.S. President George H.W. Bush Big Event MSC FISH MSC Hospitality About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top