Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Education Menu Search TTU College of Education Graduate Program Curriculum And Instruction Curriculum and Instruction About The Department Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Certificates Faculty Departmental Highlights About the Department The Department of Curriculum and Instruction is committed to serving diverse stakeholders in K-12 and beyond through excellence in teaching, research, and service in order to improve education using innovative practices to create positive change in the dynamic global society in which we all live. The core values of the Curriculum & Instruction department include social justice, equity, diversity, inclusion, and fairness for all, regardless of differences in race, ethnicity, gender, class, religion, age, (dis)ability, sexual orientation, language, and culture. We believe that our role as educators and researchers is not only to foster the well-being of our stakeholders but also to create a learning environment in which everyone can succeed. Dr. Jeong Hee Kim, Department Chair Dr. Rebecca Hite, Interim Associate Department Chair Contact Us Brandi StephensAcademic AdvisorOffice of Graduate Admissions & Enrollmentbrandi.stephens@ttu.edu 806-834-4554 Teresa NealAdmin. Business AssistantCurriculum & Instructionteresa.neal@ttu.edu 806-834-2733 Master's Degrees M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Concentration in Curriculum Studies/Teacher Education (CSTE) M.Ed. in Language & Literacy M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Concentration in STEM M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Concentration in Blended Learning/Personalized Learning M.Ed. in Bilingual Education and English as a Second Language (ESL) M.Ed. in Instructional Technology Doctoral Degrees Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Track in Curriculum Studies/Teacher Education Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Track in Language, Diversity & Literacy Studies Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with a Track in STEM Education Ed.D. in Instructional Technology Certificates & Certifications The College of Education offers two types of non-degree programs: professional certification, necessary to be licensed and/or practice at an advanced level in your chosen career and Graduate Certificates, which provide an additional credential in your field of study but do not necessarily lead to licensure. Graduate Certificates can also be used as an introduction into your chosen master's degree program. Certification options in the Department of Curriculum & Instruction include: Blended Learning/Personalized Learning Developmental Literacy E-Learning and Online Teaching Learn more and view the complete list of Graduate Certificates available through the College of Education. Faculty Graduate Assistants Jacinto, Alberto, Ph.D.Post-doctoral Research AssociateCurriculum & Instructionalberto.jacinto@ttu.edu Departmental Highlights Research & Honors Dr. Comfort Pratt, Associate Professor of Bilingual Education and English as a Second Language, received the 2022 YWCA Women of Excellence Award for Education, and was inducted into the Women of Excellence Academy on March 3, 2022. The Women of Excellence program honors women of Lubbock who have achieved excellence in their careers and whose contributions have been crucial to the success of business, industry, community organizations, and the community. Among Dr. Pratt's accomplishments that were highlighted were her numerous awards in all aspects of her career and her passionate devotion to the creation of language programs that benefit not only higher education but also PreK-12 students. Her Lubbock Spanish Spelling Bee and poetry competitions have contributed tremendously to the enhancement of Spanish in the school districts, and her publications have provided crucial information for the teaching of Spanish and French and brought into focus issues related to African Americans in Spanish programs. She has established various programs at Texas Tech University including a Spanish program, a master's program in Bilingual Education and ESL, and 5 study abroad programs. She is also the advisor of the university's chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, the National Collegiate Hispanic Honor Society, which organizes many programs in the university and the community and has won 17 consecutive National Honor Chapter Awards under her leadership. Dr. Jongpil Cheon has been selected as an Integrated Scholar for 2022. Integrated Scholars are faculty who dedicate themselves to a course of lifelong learning and advance Texas Tech's role in educating, serving and inspiring others to do the same. Integrated Scholars are not only outstanding in teaching, research and service, but they are also able to generate synergy among the three functions. The “Texas Education Policy Fellowship Program (TX-EPFP)” project was selected for the Texas Tech's 2022 President's Emerging Engaged Scholarship Award. The award recognizes the commitments made by Drs. Rebecca Hite, Jon McNaughtan, and Jessica Gottlieb to engage meaningfully with community partners and to produce positive impacts on the university and the greater Texas community. The TX-EPFP is a nine-month intensive professional development program for emerging and mid-level leaders in education and education related fields. We provide rich and robust a/synchronous and in-person experiences to both educate and empower fellows in their work for sound education policy and practice in the state of Texas. The TX-EPFP fellows participate in a variety of unique activities to discover the multifaceted aspects of education policy with experts across the state, develop their leadership skills through practice, expand their professional networks, and explore equitable avenues for fostering positive impact for stakeholders and communities within Texas education. TX-EPFP is affiliated with the Center for Research in Leadership and Education at Texas Tech University. News College of Education alumnus selected for NASA's Artemis moon-landing program December 11, 2020 Joseph Acaba, who earned a master’s degree in 2015 from the Curriculum and Instruction program, was one of 18 astronauts selected for the team. Read the full story See all College of Education News Contact CONTACTContact CONTACT CONTACT News for NEWSNews for NEWS NEWS HeartHeart GIVE Guns Up!Guns Up! APPLY NOW College of Education Like College of Education on FacebookLike College of Education on Facebook Follow College of Education on twitterFollow College of Education on twitter Subscribe to College of Education on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Education on YouTube Follow College of Education on InstagramFollow College of Education on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, College of Education, 3002 18th Street Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-2377 Email educ.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 15, 2022 2:22 PM College of Education Apply Now About College of Education About Back About the College College of Education About About the College Back About Us News & Events Contact Us CACREP Survey Information (Counselor Education) Self-Assessment, Accreditation, and Strategic Plans Our People College of Education About Our People Back Faculty Profiles Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Prospective Faculty & Staff Alumni, Donors, & Friends College of Education About Alumni, Donors, & Friends Back Donate to the College Alumni in the News Teachers of the Year Undergraduate College of Education Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Students College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Students Back Current Students Future Students Strong Teachers Day One TechTeach Across Texas TechTeach Across Rural Texas Undergraduate Application Process Study Abroad City Year Boston Undergraduate Student Resources College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Student Resources Back Undergraduate Student Resources Who to Contact Learning Resource Center Student Life Required Courses Test Preparation Materials Undergraduate Scholarships TK20 Login Undergraduate Advising College of Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Advising Back Advising Home Make an Appointment Degree Requirements Registration Admission to TechTeach (Educator Preparation Program) Pre-Admission Exam FAQ Graduation Teacher Certification Exam Information Graduate College of Education Graduate Back Graduate Departments College of Education Graduate Graduate Departments Back Curriculum & Instruction Educational Psychology, Leadership, & Counseling Special Education For Graduate Students College of Education Graduate For Graduate Students Back Graduate Application Process Graduate Student Resources Graduate Dissertation Announcements Graduate Certificates College of Education Graduate Graduate Certificates Back Graduate Certificates Graduate Advising College of Education Graduate Graduate Advising Back Graduate Scholarships/Funding Admission to Educator Preparation Program Research Centers College of Education Research Centers Back Centers and Institutes College of Education Research Centers Centers and Institutes Back The Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research The Center for Integration of STEM Education and Research (CISER) The Virginia Murray Sowell Center for Research and Education in Sensory Disabilities Center for Research in Leadership and Education (CRLE) Center for Innovation in E-Learning (CIEL) US PREP National Center Texas Education Policy Fellowship Program (EPFP) Principal Fellows Partnership Program Community Outreach College of Education Research Centers Back Community Engagement East Lubbock Promise Neighborhood (ELPN) Service Learning City Year Boston West Texas Rural Education Partnership (WTREP) Teacher Incentive Allotment (TIA) Resources College of Education Resources Back Scholarships and Financial Aid College of Education Resources Scholarships and Financial Aid Back Undergraduate Graduate University Resources Student Resources College of Education Resources Student Resources Back Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Who to Contact Undergraduate Required Courses Undergraduate Test Preparation Materials Graduate Resources Graduate Dissertation Announcements Faculty & Staff Resources College of Education Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Back Marketing & Communications Prospective Faculty & Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index