Skip to main content Explore Sections open search open menu Close From the latest big breakthrough to the most influential and inspiring figures on campus to Pitt in the community, Pittwire is your official source for what’s happening now. Explore By Topics Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Explore By Category Features & Articles Accolades & Honors Ones to Watch Announcements and Updates Pittwire Other Links Pitt Magazine Event Calendar Social Media Directory Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Info For Info For Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Close Search Pittwire Search Search www.pitt.edu Featured Sections Health and Wellness Technology and Science Arts and Humanities Community Impact Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Global Innovation and Research Our City/Our Campus Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Arts and Humanities Features & Articles This Pitt theater professor wants to diversify the field Bria Walker’s recent production of “Emilia” featured three women of color playing the main role. It’s the latest example of her work to tell more people’s stories onstage. 6 in-person shows to see in Pittsburgh this May See a circus act, a Celtic magic show and more with Pitt’s Cheap Seats discount program for students, faculty and staff. In honor of Audubon Day, check out Pitt’s collection of his prints Pitt has one of the only sets of John James Audubon’s Birds of America series and was among the first to make them accessible in high resolution. Take a look. Pitt’s Keisha N. Blain and Yona Harvey are 2022 Guggenheim Fellows The historian and poet are among 180 recipients of the prestigious award. View All Articles Pop artist Burton Morris said he owes his life to the Cathedral of Learning. You can now see his painting of it in Hillman Library. Learn about Ukraine's resilience and its history with Russia through these 4 songs Trending The University of Pittsburgh will compete for $10 billion in military health contracts Register now for Pitt’s 2022 Diversity Forum How do monarch butterflies know where to migrate? Subscribe to Pittwire Get the most interesting and important stories from the University of Pittsburgh. Subscribe Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube