Skip to main content Faculty Directory Giving Industry Partners Programs & Departments About Us Home Admissions▼ Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Spotlights Students▼ Undergraduate Students Graduate Students M.Eng. Students Research & Faculty▼ Faculty Centers and Facilities Strategic Areas of Research Undergraduate Research Diversity▼ DPE Programs & Events Current Students Prospective Students & Outreach Career Development Partnerships About DPE Alumni▼ Alumni Spotlights Bill Nye Solar Noon Clock Alumni Events Contact AAD Cornell Engineering Store Distinguished Alumni Award Enterprise Engineering Colloquium Students Support Volunteer Open the search panel Menu Search Close Diversity Programs in Engineering Different Experiences, Different Perspectives – One College "The quality of engineering [and] elegant engineering solutions are affected by diversity [and inclusion]." —Wm. A. Wulf, Former President of the National Academy of Engineering You Belong! There are several ways for you to engage in the Office of Diversity Programs in Engineering's (DPE) programs and contribute to the diverse Cornell Engineering community. Choose how you want to get in involved! DPE Programs & Events Many of DPE's signature programs cater broadly to a wide collection of communities. Learn about opportunities that enhance interaction and learning across groups. Explore Subtopics Professional Development Annual Awards Banquet Conferences & Symposia Current Students Explore DPE's program offerings for all current undergraduate and graduate students. Learn how to get involved with the fantastic student organizations we proudly work alongside to create even more opportunities for advancement. Explore Subtopics For Graduate Students For Undergraduates Peer Mentoring Student Organizations Prospective Students & Outreach The best way to learn about Cornell Engineering is to come to campus and experience what Cornell has to offer. Whether you're just starting to think about college or have your graduate school acceptance letter in hand, DPE offers opportunities for you to get to know our programs and campus. Explore Subtopics High School Programs Hosting Programs Faculty & Academic Career Development Women, first generation college, and underrepresented students are more likely to become professors themselves when they learn from diverse faculty. See how DPE works to enhance faculty recruitment and provide opportunities for academic career advancement at Cornell Engineering. Partnerships We are able to accomplish our goals through generous financial and in-kind support from corporate, foundation, and alumni partners and through strategic relationships with other organizational partners. Learn how you can partner with DPE. About DPE Learn about the mission of the Diversity Programs in Engineering office at Cornell University and the staff members dedicated to achieving those goals. Explore Subtopics Connect with Staff Contact Us About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Intranet Reserve Duffield Hall Main Address: Carpenter Hall 313 Campus Rd. Ithaca, New York 14853 Web Accessibility Assistance Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved.