By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Native American More from this Section First Generation Students Counselors Contacts & Questions Apply Veterans International Transfer First-Year Admitted Native American and Indigenous Students At Syracuse University, you’ll find a welcoming campus community and rich academic programs with faculty, staff and alumni who are invested in helping Indigenous students succeed—from admission through graduation and beyond. Discover a community that’s here to help you find your purpose, make an impact and be part of a global network that’s with you, wherever your course takes you. Apply Now A Place for Indigenous Students to Thrive Our campus is just minutes from the heart of Haudenosaunee territory, and we are committed to empowering and supporting Indigenous students of any tribe or nation. From honoring our neighbors at universityWide events to celebrating Native cultures everywhere, we foster an appreciation for Indigenous leadership, innovation and contributions. Honoring Native Experience, Celebrating Native Culture Indigenous Peoples Day and Native Heritage Month. We officially recognize these events with Indigenous films, lectures, comedians, social dances and other cultural festivities. Land Acknowledgment Statement. All major University events begin with a statement honoring the valued partnership with our Haudenosaunee neighbors: “We acknowledge with respect the Onondaga Nation, Firekeepers of the Haudenosaunee, the Indigenous People on whose ancestral lands Syracuse University now stands.” Haudenosaunee Flag. We proudly fly this flag alongside the U.S. flag across campus at the stadium, Hendricks Chapel, Manley Field House, the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC), the College of Law and the Goldstein Student Center. Seed Sovereignty Garden. In 2021, we dedicated a Three Sisters garden on campus that uses traditional methods of the Onondaga Nation Seed Keepers. This event was the culmination of a student-led effort to grow food sustainably while honoring thousands of years of Indigenous wisdom and ecological knowledge. Academic Programs and Resources Native American and Indigenous Studies Minor This minor explores the lives of Indigenous peoples from religious, historical and political perspectives from the earliest cultures (extending back 11,000 years or more) to the present. You’ll work with the program director to personalize a course of study that reflects your interests and academic goals. Certiﬁcate in Iroquois Linguistics This 15-credit certificate program aims to revitalize and preserve the Iroquois languages for future generations. You’ll study linguistic principles and grammatical features unique to the Iroquois languages, exploring rich examples from all six Haudenosaunee languages. Native American Research Resources Syracuse University Libraries houses collections of books, journals, databases, government documents and other sources specifically focused on Indigenous studies. Welcoming and Supportive Communities Native Student Program This program supports you during your transition to college life and throughout your entire undergraduate experience. It begins with a three-day orientation and continues with weekly gatherings for workshops and academic counseling. Participants also attend conferences and travel to museums and cultural sites to explore Indigenous history. Indigenous Students at Syracuse (ISAS) This student-run organization brings together Indigenous students, offering a sense of belonging for those on campus and educating the University community about Indigenous issues and concerns. Although Syracuse is a huge university, it seemed small to me, and I felt like I had a family at Newhouse. That was the type of environment I needed. —Jourdan Bennett-Begaye G’16 Indigenous Living Learning Community You can choose to live in a learning community with other students who share your interests. Living learning communities are a great place to make friends, develop skills that boost academic achievement, and discover tools to balance your academics and social life. Skä·noñh—Great Law of Peace Center This heritage center near the shores of Onondaga Lake tells the story of the Native peoples of Central New York and their formative influence on the political and cultural identity of the U.S. You can become involved with planning and events for the center, which is a collaboration among the Onondaga Nation, Onondaga County, Onondaga Historical Association and local universities. Indigenous Faculty and Staff We’ve engaged a growing number of Native American faculty and staff across the University. Here are some of the people who can guide you on your journey: Percy Abrams (Onondaga Nation, Eel Clan) is a professor who teaches the certificate program in Iroquois linguistics. He holds a Ph.D. in linguistics from the University at Buffalo and specializes in the morphology and phonology of the Iroquois languages. Tammy Bluewolf-Kennedy (Oneida Nation, Wolf Clan) is an admissions counselor and Native American liaison who works closely with our Native Student Program. Regina Jones (Oneida Nation, Turtle Clan) is the assistant director of the Native Student Program and can offer mentoring and support throughout your academic career. Neal Powless (Onondaga Nation, Eel Clan) serves as University Ombuds, providing an informal, safe space for faculty, staff and graduate students to discuss issues confidentially. Susanne Rios (Pima, Pueblo and Xicana) is a therapist at the Barnes Center at The Arch and can provide culturally appropriate mental health support. Scholarships and Financial Support for Indigenous Students We offer several scholarships and grants specifically for Indigenous students, making the University’s rich educational experiences available to those who qualify. Scholarships and Financial Support for Indigenous Students Indigenous Alumni Ongwehonwe Alumni Association Ongwehonwe, the Onondaga word for First Nation peoples, is also the name of Syracuse’s ever-growing Indigenous alumni group, with more than 600 members representing every school and college at the University. The association connects current students with Native American alumni who are part of the global Orange community. In 2020, the ﬁrst dedicated Ongwehonwe Alumni Gathering was held as part of the University’s signature homecoming event, Orange Central. Notable Alumni ● Oren Lyons ’58, H’93, Turtle Clan Faithkeeper, Syracuse’s first Native graduate and a frequent lecturer at the United Nations ● Ann Drumheller ’89, special assistant for Native American initiatives at the Smithsonian Institution and the first Native woman to letter all four years in volleyball ● Stephanie Waterman, G’04, assistant professor at University of Rochester and the first Onondaga to earn a Ph.D. from Syracuse University ● Brett Bucktooth ’06, Syracuse University All-American lacrosse player, National Lacrosse League All-Star, and member of the Iroquois Nationals and Onondaga Redhawks lacrosse teams ● Michael Taylor G’05, visiting professor at Ithaca College and author of Contesting Constructed Indian-ness ● Robert Odawi Porter ’86, senior advisor and Native American expert, Dentons Law Firm ● Karla General L’10, attorney with the Indian Law Resource Center ● Sarah Moses ’06, G’10, staff writer for The Syracuse Post-Standard ● Leah Shenandoah ’06, singer, songwriter, jeweler and multimedia artist ● Amber Hill ’09, lacrosse player, first known Native American woman to play in the NCAA tournament Contact Request more information or contact Tammy Bluewolf-Kennedy, Admissions Counselor and Native American Liaison, Office of Admissions, 315.443.4844, tbluewol@syr.edu. Featured Stories A Call for Awareness A conversation about the growing recognition of Indigenous Peoples Day with leaders of the University’s Indigenous programs. A Leading Voice for Native Americans Syracuse alumna is a guiding force for a multimedia news organization that focuses on Indigenous topics. Inspired by Community Haudenosaunee Promise Scholar flourishes on campus while staying committed to her cultural teachings. Changing the Narrative Graduate student examines the American story through the perspective of Indigenous peoples and writes a new chapter of her own story. Resiliency, Passion and Determination A post-traditional transfer student committed to social justice and equity pursues a career in special education. Carrying the Ball for the Seventh Generation Onondaga Nation Faithkeeper reflects on his unlikely journey through Syracuse University and lifelong pursuit of human and environmental justice. Related Pages The Office of Multicultural Affairs supports, guides and encourages students to become members of a community that is respectful of differences. The Center for Fellowship and Scholarship Advising helps students and alumni identify opportunities and assists them through all stages of the application process. The fullCIRCLE Mentoring Program is designed to help students adjust to the academic, social, professional and personal challenges of college life by providing academic resources outside the classroom. The Connections Program links international students with experienced students for advice about settling into Syracuse, living with a roommate, opening a bank account, meeting new friends and handling academics. Looking for a college with a strong Indigenous community? Here are 10 reasons you should consider Syracuse University. Related Programs Minors Native American and Indigenous Studies Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy