Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Office of the Registrar Menu Baylor>Registrar>VA Education Benefits>VA Forms / Resources>FAQs FAQs Terminology Commonly used Terminology General How does Baylor know I want to use my benefits? You must submit a Request for Certification Form to the VA Benefits Office every term that you want to use your benefits. Please note that during the Summer semester, each part of term (Minimester, Summer I, Summer II, Full Summer) are considered separate non-standard terms and you must request each non-standard term that you want to be certified for on the Request for Certification Form. When should I turn in my Request for Certification Form? As soon as you have registered for classes, turn in the Request for Certification Form to the VA Benefits Office. After the VA Benefits Office submits a certification to the VA, it can take the VA up to six weeks to process. If you turn in your Request for Certification after the deadline set by the VA Benefits Office, it could cause a delay in payments. What happens if I change my schedule? If you change your schedule, you need to notify the VA Benefits Office so that they can determine if another certification must be submitted to the VA. NOTE: This could create a debt that you will owe to the VA, please read our Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Information) page. I just changed my major; do I need to let the VA know? You will need to notify the VA Benefits Office that you have changed majors. This can cause classes you are registered for not to be certified to the VA. Does Baylor University accept Texas Hazelwood benefits? No, Baylor University is not a public institution and therefore is not eligible for participation in this Texas program. For more information about the Hazelwood Act please visit https://www.tvc.texas.gov/Hazlewood-Act.aspx. Since I receive VA benefits, will the anticipated payments be reflected on my bill? The tuition and fee payments under Chapter 33 or Chapter 31 from the VA that are sent directly to Baylor to pay on your student account will be memo'd as anticipated aid to reduce your amount due on your bill until the payment is received. For Chapter 33, a memo will not be set up until the VA Benefits Office has received your Certificate of Eligibility that shows you have entitlement remaining and you are officially certified with the VA. For Chapter 31, a memo will not be set up until the VA Benefits Office has received a valid VA Form 28-1905. Books and supplies, housing stipends, and monthly stipends are all sent directly to the student and therefore will not be memo'd on your student account. Can I use two different VA education benefits at the same time? No. You can only use one VA education benefit at a time. What classes can be certified to the VA? The only classes that can be certified to the VA are classes that fall within your degree plan. If you are not registered in all degree applicable classes, your benefits from the VA may be affected. For example, if you are an undergraduate student registered for 15 hours during the fall semester but 5 hours do not fall within your degree plan, you will only be certified for 10 hours and considered less than full time with the VA. You will receive benefits for only the 10 hours that are degree applicable. Some students run out of degree applicable classes during their last semester before graduation. Sometimes these students will take classes that are not degree applicable to remain a full time student. If you wish to be certified during your last semester before graduation and you have enough entitlement left, classes that keep you a full time student but fall outside of your degree plan can be certified to the VA. This is called Rounding Out. How is my GI Bill® entitlement used? Your entitlement can be broken down into months and days. There are 30 days for every month of entitlement. For example, 10 months of entitlement equals 300 days of entitlement. For every day of a term that you are a full-time student, you will use one day of entitlement. Any months with 31 days will only use 30 days of entitlement, and any months below 30 days will use 30 days of entitlement. Example: A full time undergraduate student who completed the Fall 2019 semester. The semester begins on August 26, 2019 and ends December 17, 2019. The student used 112 days or 3 months and 22 days of entitlement. Month Days of Entitlement Used August 26 - August 31 5* September 30 October 30* November 30 December 1 - December 17 17 *August 31st and October 31st cannot be counted towards the student's entitlement. Can a class that I have already taken be certified to the VA again? If you previously took a class and received the required grade for graduation, the class cannot be certified to the VA again. If you previously took a class and did not receive the required grade for graduation, the class can be certified to the VA again. However, if you retake the class a second time and do not make the required grade for graduation, you may have to repay the VA for the tuition, fees, and book stipend for the failed class. What happens with my VA benefits if I fail a class? A debt will not be created with the VA for failing a class. The VA will pay for you to repeat the class that you failed as long as it falls within your degree plan. Do I need to notify the VA Benefits Office or the VA if my address changes? Yes, you will need to notify both the VA Benefits Office and the VA if your address changes. The VA still sends notifications and letters to you through the mail. If you do not have a valid address on file, you may miss very important and time-sensitive information sent from the VA. Be sure to keep your contact information updated in BearWeb in order to receive important notifications from Baylor. Will the VA pay for tutoring if I am struggling to pass a class? Yes. The VA can help cover the cost of tutoring as long as you qualify and have entitlement left. For information about receiving this benefit, visits https://www.gibill.va.gov/resources/education_resources/programs/tutorial_assistance_program.html. What happens to my benefits if I am not a full time student? Your benefit payments will be prorated based on how many hours you will be taking. For current payment rates visit https://www.gibill.va.gov/resources/benefits_resources/rate_tables.html. Note: For students under Chapter 33, you will not receive a housing stipend if you are at half time or less. Will the VA cover the fees for any National, License, or Certification Tests? Yes. The VA can help cover this cost as long as you qualify and have entitlement left. For information about receiving this benefit, for National Testing information visit https://www.gibill.va.gov/resources/education_resources/programs/national_testing_program.html and for License and Certification Testing information visit https://www.va.gov/education/about-gi-bill-benefits/how-to-use-benefits/test-fees/. What happens if I run out of entitlement during the semester? The VA will prorate your benefit payments to end on the day you run out of entitlement. I am using Chapter 30, 1606 or 1607, Why haven't I received my monthly stipend? Have you verified your attendance with the VA each month? You can do so by going to https://www.gibill.va.gov/wave/index.do or by calling the VA's toll free Interactive Voice Response (IRV) telephone line at 1-877-823-2378. I receive health insurance through Champ VA, and I need to provide them with proof of enrollment. How can I obtain such proof? You can go to the Office of the Registrar on the third floor of the Robinson Tower to request that an Enrollment Certification be sent to Champ VA. The letter includes the number of hours you are taking, your classification, full time status, and expected graduation date. Champ VA asks that a social security number be included in the letter. You will need to sign the request form to release your social security number to Champ VA. Chapter 33 When will I get my books and supplies stipend? This depends on when you submit your Request for Certification Form, when the VA Benefits Office submits your certification to the VA, and when the VA processes the certification to send payment. The VA processing time can take up to six weeks. The stipend payment is usually sent at the same time your tuition and fees payment is sent to Baylor. NOTE: a change in schedule resulting in a student debt could change the amount that the VA sends to you, please read our Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Information) page. When will I receive my housing stipend? For each month that you are attending classes, you will receive your housing stipend the first day of the following month. For example, for the month of September you will receive that payment on October 1st. Please be aware that partial months of attendance are pro-rated. For example, August and December are pro-rated for the fall semester. NOTE: If you turn in your Request for Certification Form after the deadline set by the VA Benefits Office, it could cause your housing stipend to be delayed. Why do I have an AR CH33 Veteran Hold? AR Holds are placed on all students receiving VA Chapter 33 benefits. This hold will not prevent registration or the ability to request a transcript. The purpose of this hold is to alert the Cashier's Office to follow the refund policy and procedure for a student receiving VA Chapter 33 benefits. Will the VA cover parking? No. The parking permit is not considered a mandatory fee; therefore, it cannot be certified to the VA. Is my Financial Aid affected if I use my Post 9/11 GI Bill® benefits? In most cases, yes, your Financial Aid award package will be affected. For more information contact the Office of Financial Aid. How is entitlement transferred? The Veteran or Active Duty service member must submit a transfer of entitlement request. For more information about making the request visit https://www.gibill.va.gov/benefits/post_911_gibill®/transfer_of_benefits.html. I have to provide my apartment with proof that I have money to pay rent; how can I prove that I receive a monthly housing stipend from the VA? The VA Benefits Office can write up a letter of housing that lists the estimated amount of housing allowance you will receive from the VA for the term(s). Letters can only be written for terms that you are registered for. Do I need to reapply for the Yellow Ribbon Program each year? In most cases, no. After you have been accepted into the Yellow Ribbon Program you will be able to participate in the program as long as you have entitlement left, are continuously enrolled at Baylor University, and Baylor participates in the program. Registrar Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Dates and Deadlines Registering for Classes Steps for Registration Registration + Planning Instructional Videos View Class Schedule in BearWeb Summer/Fall 2022 BearWeb Early Registration Schedule Waitlist Information Waitlist FAQs Returning Student Reactivation Returning Student Reactivation FAQs Wintermester Academic Services Transcript Information Additional Information Current Student Online Ordering Former Student Online Ordering Name and Address Change Enrollment/Degree Certification Commencement Information Non-certified Commencement Participation Policy Diploma Information Diploma Distribution for Current Graduates Duplicate Diploma Orders for Alumni Duplicate Diploma Order Form Dean's Academic Honor List Degree Audits GPA Slip/Final Grades Enrollment Status Undergraduate Course Repeat Policy FAQ's - Undergraduate Course Repeat and Academic Forgiveness Policy U.Achieve Instructional Videos Schedule of Classes & Catalogs Schedule of Classes University Catalogs Undergraduate Catalog Previous Undergraduate Catalogs Graduate Catalog Law School Catalog Seminary Catalog Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Fall 2022 Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policies Equivalent Course Tool (ECT) Search by Outside Institution Search by Baylor Course Equivalent Course Request (ECR) Transfer Credit FAQs Abroad Equivalent Course Approval VA Education Benefits Announcements Apply for VA Educational Benefits Meet our VA Benefits Team VA Benefits Contact Information VA Benefits Appointment Scheduling Military Scholarships VA Chapter Benefits Chapter 33 Chapter 33 Application Process - Veterans or Active Duty Chapter 33 Application Process - Spouses or Dependents Chapter 33 - Private School Tuition & Fee Cap Timeline of VA Chapter 33 Certification Procedure VA CH 33 Refund Procedure Example Email John Fry Scholarship Chapter 35 Chapter 31 VA CH 31 Refund Procedure Chapter 30, 1606 VA Forms / Resources FAQs Ineligible Programs The Effects of Schedule Changes (Debt Info) Terminology VA COE Submission Yellow Ribbon Program Room Scheduling Faculty/Staff Resources Class Scheduling Schedule Build Timeline Development Grading Resources Class Roster Verification Electronic Catalog Implementation FERPA FERPA Policy Faculty/Staff Quick Guide Student Annual Notification FERPA Consent Form FAQs Office Information Mission Statement Staff Directory Activities and Responsibilities Organizational Chart Search the Site