Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News WCPO: Lindner graduate honored for contributions to men’s... March 11, 2022 University of Cincinnati men’s basketball player and Lindner College of Business student Sam Martin recently was honored during the team’s Senior Day. Cheering from the stands and the stacks March 2, 2022 Attend a Cincinnati Bearcats Women’s Basketball, Lacrosse or Volleyball game and that cheering you hear from the stands may likely be retired University of Cincinnati professors Laura and Richard Kretschmer. Loyal fans, the couple have been rooting for UC’s female student-athletes since the 1970s. This devotion doesn’t end with the season. UC grad heads to Super Bowl as Bengals assistant head athletic... February 8, 2022 Dan Willen, the assistant head athletic trainer for the AFC Champion Cincinnati Bengals, graduated from UC in 1998 with a degree in health promotion with an emphasis on athletic training. That program would be part of the formation a year later of the College of Allied Health Sciences. One of the reasons Dan, who went to high school in Dayton, OH, chose UC is because his dad graduated from the aerospace engineering program at UC in 1968 and did his co-op at NASA during the height of the manned missions to the moon. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove WCPO: Lindner graduate honored for contributions to men’s... March 11, 2022 University of Cincinnati men’s basketball player and Lindner College of Business student Sam Martin recently was honored during the team’s Senior Day. Cheering from the stands and the stacks March 2, 2022 Attend a Cincinnati Bearcats Women’s Basketball, Lacrosse or Volleyball game and that cheering you hear from the stands may likely be retired University of Cincinnati professors Laura and Richard Kretschmer. Loyal fans, the couple have been rooting for UC’s female student-athletes since the 1970s. This devotion doesn’t end with the season. UC grad heads to Super Bowl as Bengals assistant head athletic... February 8, 2022 Dan Willen, the assistant head athletic trainer for the AFC Champion Cincinnati Bengals, graduated from UC in 1998 with a degree in health promotion with an emphasis on athletic training. That program would be part of the formation a year later of the College of Allied Health Sciences. One of the reasons Dan, who went to high school in Dayton, OH, chose UC is because his dad graduated from the aerospace engineering program at UC in 1968 and did his co-op at NASA during the height of the manned missions to the moon. Yahoo: Future University of Cincinnati Bearcats get surprised at... January 28, 2022 News media highlight UC's Decision Day records as students get surprised with admission and scholarships. UC surprises future Bearcats on Decision Day January 24, 2022 Decision Day marks the moment when thousands of incoming Bearcats learn they’ve been accepted to the University of Cincinnati. University officials surprised four area high school seniors at their schools and homes, making them among the first to be accepted into UC in 2022. CCM Media Production and UC Athletics make history with ESPNU... January 21, 2022 Thanks to a unique partnership between the UC College-Conservatory of Music's Division of Media Production and UC Athletics, students have had the unparalleled experience of producing live, multi-camera sports broadcasts for the ESPN+ streaming service since Fall 2020. Those student-produced streaming broadcasts made enough of an impression that UC was given an opportunity to help produce ESPNU's televised coverage of the UC vs. Tulsa men's basketball game on Thursday, Jan. 20, 2022. UC is the first school in the American Athletic Conference (AAC) to hold this distinction. ‘College Tour’ spotlight: April Gable January 17, 2022 April Gable is one of 10 students and alumni featured in UC’s episode of “The College Tour,” an Amazon Prime series that features universities from across the country. WCPO: UC's first ever mascot coach for Bearcat is a former... January 4, 2022 Chris Helmers, UC Bearcat Mascot Coach, spoke to WCPO about the making of 'Bearcat.' The beloved university mascot's popularity only soared as the Cincinnati Bearcats took on the University of Alabama in the Cotton Bowl Football Playoff. UC Clermont welcomes new soccer coaches December 16, 2021 UC Clermont College has named new head coaches for its men’s and women’s soccer programs. UC among top bowl-bound football teams for academic performance December 14, 2021 When it comes to Academic Progress among top bowl-bound teams, UC ties Alabama for the No. 1 spot among the top four CFP teams; is No. 1 among the seven qualifying AAC teams; and is also No. 1 in Ohio. Who is that behind the Bearcat? December 13, 2021 The term 'Bearcat' has been part of the University of Cincinnati tradition for more than a century. The Bearcat mascot has been the face of UC to students, community members, sports fans and others. The mascot's persona and antics entertain and inspire excellence at the university on and off of the sports field. WLWT: Excitement builds for Bearcats’ playoff game December 7, 2021 Excitement is high around the University of Cincinnati as fans prepare for the Bearcats’ appearance in the College Football Playoff, WLWT reported. Sports Illustrated: Bearcats football embodies UC work ethic December 1, 2021 Sports Illustrated featured the rise of the University of Cincinnati Bearcats football team, which is undefeated in regular season play for the second consecutive year and ranked No. 4 by the College Football Playoff selection committee. The article touts the connection between the tireless work ethic of the team and the university’s 115-year-old cooperative education (co-op) program. UC Clermont volleyball claims first national championship November 29, 2021 The University of Cincinnati Clermont College women’s volleyball team has clinched the 2021 United States Collegiate Athletic Association Division II national championship, the program’s first national title. UC Athletics launches $100 million fundraising initiative November 15, 2021 University of Cincinnati Athletics has launched a $100 million fundraising initiative to prepare for the university’s upcoming move to the Big 12. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top