Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now What is a responsible employee? A responsible employee is required to report sexual misconduct that has been brought to their attention. Your conversation with a responsible employee is not confidential. These employees typically include faculty, staff, resident assistants, graduate students with classroom responsibilities and any employees identified as Campus Security Authorities. UCF can designate other individuals involved in university-sponsored/related activities as responsible employees on a case-by-case basis. Explore the Prohibition of Discrimination, Harassment and Related Interpersonal Violence policy. Related FAQs What is the difference between discrimination and harassment? Discrimination occurs when you’ve been treated differently than others because you possess certain characteristics. These characteristics may include race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, marital and parental status, disability, sexual orientation or genetic information. Harassment involves unwelcome conduct and, in some cases, can be unlawful. This can entail something that’s said or written, or even a graphic or physical contact. The person or people committing the offending behavior are deliberate in their actions and create a hostile environment. What is the difference between privacy and confidentiality? Privacy ensures your right to know how your personal information is collected and disclosed. For example, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) protects the privacy of your student records. Confidentiality, on the other hand, means the information you discuss is a secret and it not share with anyone else. What is the difference between a confidential conversation and anonymous report? Confidential conversations are a way for you to safely and confidentially discuss an incident without filing a report. These resources include: Ombuds Office Victim Services UCF Counseling and Psychological Services UCF Student Health Services Let’s Be Clear If after speaking to one of the confidential offices, you’re hesitant to report suspected misconduct through a one of UCF’s central offices, you can reach out to the UCF IntegrityLine anonymously. The internet portal never identifies you and deletes your internet address to ensure complete anonymity. In addition, calls are not tracked or recorded. After contacting the IntegrityLine online or by phone, your report will be sent to University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk that will then review, investigate and respond to your report as discreetly and promptly as possible. What is a confidential employee? A confidential employee will not disclose information from your discussion without your permission. Confidential employees and resources at UCF include: Health Services employees Counseling and Mental Health Services employees Employee Assistance Program employees Ombuds Office employees Victim Services employees Student Legal Services employees Volunteer chaplains What can I do to help if a friend confides in me? There are a number of ways you can help a friend who confides in you. The resources section of this page has information about what’s available on campus, as well as contact information. You may also reach out to the Ombuds Office which is a helpful resource if you’re unsure of which reporting avenue to take. The Ombuds Office is an informal, independent, confidential, neutral office that offers assistance and impartial advice regarding concerns related to UCF. What is a bias incident? A bias incident involves any conduct, speech or expression that’s motivated — whole or in part — by bias or prejudice. Acts of bias are not tolerated at UCF. If you have a concern about a bias incident, please reach out to someone. I’m unsure if something I experienced or observed was bias-related. Should I submit a report? If you’re unsure about a situation, reach out to the Ombuds Office. It provides you with a place to discuss the incident and offers guidance on which reporting avenue that you’ll want to take. The Ombuds Office is an informal, independent, confidential, neutral office that’s available to assist you and provide impartial advice regarding any concerns that you may have related to UCF. Please note, however, that communication with the Ombuds Office does not constitute notice to UCF. Due to its confidential nature, it will not disclose information to the University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk or any other central or investigative office. Instead, you will need to report suspected conduct separately upon determining the options available to you. I’m worried that someone may retaliate against me if I report an incident. How does UCF handle retaliation? If you believe that you’ve been subjected to acts of retaliation, please file a written or verbal complaint with the University Compliance, Ethics and Risk or through the UCF IntegrityLine. The University Compliance, Ethics, and Risk will conduct an investigation and/or contact the appropriate university offices for review. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida