Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Inside Iowa State for faculty and staff Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Submit News Announcements Archives Inside Update Inside Iowa State Faculty Senate Updates P&S Council Updates Regents Updates Calendar Employee Resources About Us Summer projects on (or near) your corner May 26 Inside offers a quick look at some campus road and building projects happening or wrapping up this summer. 'Roll out the cardinal carpet,' as orientation returns in full May 26 Student orientation returns to its usual form for the first time since 2019, offering Cyclones-to-be an opportunity for a two-day, in-person introduction to Iowa State. Carl Wells Welcome May 26 Carl Wells is in his second week as director of equal opportunity and Title IX coordinator. He joins the university from a 20+ year career at the University of South Carolina, Columbia. Senior VP Cain will retire this fall May 26 The operations and finance division leader's 42-year career included stops at the state auditor's office, state Board of Regents and Iowa State. A national search will be announced in a few weeks. Leaders take strategic plans, building proposal to regents next week May 26 An Iowa State nine-year strategic plan, 30-year strategic facilities plan and proposal for a new engineering building on the west side of campus are on the agenda when the state Board of Regents meets May 31-June 2. Support grows for responding to student well-being needs May 26 Faculty and staff have a new resource for helping the growing number of students struggling with well-being issues, one of a variety of training opportunities this summer focused on identifying and addressing mental health and wellness concerns. Training available as New Quizzes set to launch in Canvas May 26 Starting next week, all instructors will have access to New Quizzes, the updated quiz engine in Canvas. Numerous training and learning opportunities are available this summer for those ready to try it out. Changes shared for COVID-19 data and information May 26 This summer, Iowa State's public health team will implement a series of changes related to COVID-19 information and resources for the campus community. Announcements EH&S 50th anniversary open house is June 10 COVID-19: By the numbers May 30 is university holiday Ames Lab innovation is focus of ISU's state fair exhibit Flags temporarily removed from central campus pole Roundtable assists employees who supervise volunteers WorkFlex application window opens June 6 COACHE faculty survey data available online Creamery adds ice cream sandwiches Extension, Iowa Public Radio collaborate on gardening podcast College Creek cleanup is June 18 View All › Receptions and open houses Receptions Dennis Peterson, Celebration of Life, May 29 View All › Retirements and farewells Retirements Lynn Laws, May 31 View All › Honors and awards 2022 Learning Community Awards Chad Olson Greg Tylka Rodney Fox View All › Arts and events Anniversary flavor A new ice cream choice at the ISU Creamery, "Materials Masterpiece," commemorates Ames Laboratory's 75th anniversary. Return to in-person events brings summer visitors Students, faculty and staff again will share campus this summer with visitors attending camps, conferences, competitions and other gatherings. Here's a list of who's coming. Around campus Ames Lab celebrates 75 years of materials and energy solutions Culturally tailored dietary education proves promising Taxes can tip the scale for startups near state lines Inside tools Print this edition RSS | Twitter Strategic Relations and Communications Inside Iowa State 2420 Lincoln Way Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 inside@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone @InsideIowaState Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...