Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life A Thriving Community A student's time at San Jose State is about discovery, both inside and outside the classroom. Through shared experiences with peers, service to the community, and acts of creation, recreation and cohabitation, discover who you want to be. Get Involved Associated Students Home of Student Government, Cesar Chavez Community Action Center, Child Development Center, General Services Center, Print and Technology Center and Transportation Solutions, Associated Students (A/S) is here to enhance your experience! Student Organizations Find your place among 30,000 Spartans with nearly 450 recognized student organizations at San Jose State ranging from cultural groups and Greek life to hundreds of special interest groups. Fraternities and Sororities Since 1898, fraternities and sororities at SJSU have offered a fun atmosphere filled with friendship, community service, and personal development that makes college life a memorable experience. African-American/Black Student Success Center The African-American/Black Student Success Center’s primary mission is retaining, empowering and successfully graduating African-American/black students at SJSU. Cesar Chavez Community Action Center Part of Associated Students, CCCAC connects SJSU students with community service opportunities that deepen their educational experience, while promoting lifelong commitment to civic activism and social justice, which are at the heart of the Cesar Chavez legacy. Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center The Chicanx/Latinx Student Success Center is a responsive and culturally relevant academic success center devoted to providing inclusive and welcoming community spaces. Center for Community Learning and Leadership CCLL promotes service-learning and community engagement, collaborating with students, faculty members and community organizations for academic advancement and serving the common good. Gender Equity Center The Gender Equity Center works to empower students and educate the campus on gender-based issues facing society. Military and Veteran Student Resource Center The center is dedicated to assisting eligible veterans and military students, and their dependents, aiding in the transition from military to education to career. MOSAIC Cross Cultural Center MOSAIC Cross Cultural Center provides support services and advocacy for students from historically underrepresented identity groups, along with campus programming and events. PRIDE Center The PRIDE Center works to improve the campus climate for LGBTIQQA students, advocating for the respect and safety of all members of the SJSU community. UndocuSpartan Student Resource Center The UndocuSpartan Student Resource Center uses a cross-cultural and social justice lense to provide holistic support and resources to undocumented students and the campus community. Discover SJSU Discover SJSU is our digital platform to replicate the opportunities you might discover as you travel across campus. This dashboard will update regularly to expose you to a variety of our many programs, events, and services throughout the year. Health and Wellness There are many ways for the campus community to enage and be well. Wellness is not only about physical and mental health. Learn how to take care of all dimensions of wellness: physical, social, emotional, occupational, multicultural, environmental, spiritual and intellectual. Arts and Entertainment Event Center at SJSU The Event Center at SJSU is the premier mid-sized venue in Northern California. It has hosted national entertainment acts such as Shawn Mendes, Fifth Harmony, Brand New and Prince Royce. It's also the home of Spartan men's and women's basketball. Hammer Theatre Center In the heart of downtown San Jose, Hammer Theatre serves San Jose’s community and the university through high-quality programming expressive of the unique characteristics and diverse cultures that comprise Silicon Valley. Music and Dance SJSU's School of Music and Dance offers concerts, performances and other events. Film and Theatre Film and Theatre creates short and feature films through Spartan Film Studios, a full season of stage productions, and other faculty, staff and student production projects. The department also has a full-time radio station, KSJS 90.5. Center for Literary Arts The CLA provides readings, lectures, conversations and seminars that allow the San Jose community to interact with writers of contemporary literature. Natalie and James Thompson Art Gallery The professionally curated exhibitions in the Natalie and James Thompson Gallery create a direct link to academic curricula and explore varied issues of contemporary and traditional arts. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation offers a variety of athletic and recreation opportunities to the campus community, from intramural and club sports to the Bowling Center, fitness activities and outdoor adventures. Silicon Valley San Jose State's location provides opportunities to enjoy the best of Northern California. Events From poetry readings to Spartan home games, you can always find something to do at San Jose State that will enrich your college experience. Keep up with what’s going on. Caring for the Spartan Family SJSU Cares There is a community of Spartans ready to offer assistance to students dealing with situations and issues outside of the classroom that may take away from academic success. SJSU Cares assists students experiencing unforeseen economic crisis, food and housing insecurities. Accessible Education Center The AEC provides comprehensive services in support of the educational development and success of students with disabilities. Campus Safety Community safety is a top priority at San Jose State. Learn about all aspects of campus safety, sign up for emergency alerts, report an incident and more. Parent and Family Programs Parents and families play an important role in helping their student succeed on their path to a degree. Get resources and information about how to stay connected and best support your child in their educational journey. Student-Alumni Connections SJSU Student-Alumni Connections directly links students with 200,000 professional Spartans worldwide through the Spartan Success Series networking and career events, scholarships, social activities, mentoring, leadership opportunities and more. Student Jobs and Employment Career Center The SJSU Career Center inspires, empowers and connects students, educators, and employers. Search for jobs, explore possible careers, find a mentor and more. SJSU Jobs Pursuing full- or part-time work on campus is a wonderful way to deepen your connection to your community while earning money for school. Explore opportunities that excite you. Federal Work-Study Federal Work-Study allows students to gain valuable work experience while earning money to help pay for college. A focus is placed on providing community service jobs both on and off campus. Child Development Center Part of Associated Students, the CDC is a non-profit early education and care program serving children ages four months through five years and is licensed for 110 children. Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated Feb 26, 2021