Skip to site alert. Skip to content CUIMC Information Technology Submit a Ticket Web Outlook myPassword Contact Us About Us About Us Our Teams IT Leadership Council Announcements News Testimonials Contact Us See What's New with CUIMC IT We provide support for information technology here at CUIMC. Learn about our teams, the latest announcements, upcoming events, and more. Information Security Information Security Security Services Policies and Procedures Report an IT Security Event Security Awareness Don't Get Hooked We're Serious About IT Security We place a high priority on data security, and you can help. Explore our services, review CUIMC IT policies, or report a security event. For Students Get Help Get Help Knowledge Base Service Catalog Ask a Question My Tickets Find answers and get the help you need! Click Get Help to explore our Service Portal. You can find answers, view tutorials, request services, submit tickets, and manage your requests. Get Help - Find Answers to All of Your IT - Related Questions Get Help - Find Answers to All of Your IT - Related Questions Resources for Students - Everything You Need Resources for Students - Everything You Need Contact Us - Email, Phone, or Chat... We're Here to Help Contact Us - Email, Phone, or Chat... We're Here to Help Do you have a business problem that you think IT can help solve? Submit a proposal! Do you have a business problem that you think IT can help solve? Submit a proposal! Email at CUIMC Everything about email at CUIMC, including getting started, setting up an email program, using email for groups and secure email. Find Out About Email Find Out About Email Connect to Wireless How to use secure Mercury wifi, the guest network, and wifi locations on the CUIMC campus. Get Help with Wireless Get Help with Wireless VPN Connect to the CUIMC secure network and its resources from off campus using Cisco AnyConnect. Get Help With VPN Get Help With VPN Zoom HIPAA compliant video and audio conferencing for secure and intuitive real time collaboration and content sharing. Explore Zoom for Healthcare Explore Zoom for Healthcare Epic Find out about using the CUIMC/NYPH common platform for electronic medical records including how to request access. Learn About Epic at CUIMC Learn About Epic at CUIMC CUIMC Applications A comprehensive list of common apps and programs and how to request access and help. Find Out About CUIMC Apps Find Out About CUIMC Apps Call 212-305-4357 , option 5, for assistance 7 days a week. 212-305-4357 Announcements Account and Password Help Many account and password problems can be resolved quickly online through self service options. Brief Wifi Downtime for Some Locations on Monday, June 6th After 6pm Due to a scheduled upgrade of networking equipment, there will be a 6 minute interruption in wifi for the following locations after 6pm. Student TechBar Walk-in Desk Closed May 9th to June 10th The student walk-in support desk is closed for renovations; phone, email, chat, and remote support are still available. Towers Wi-Fi Access Upgrade May 23rd to September 9th To improve the Wi-Fi service to students, access points will be upgraded in Towers 1, 2 and 3. The work will occur on weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. from May 23rd to September 9th. View All Announcements News January 2022 Newsletter January 18, 2022 Headlines include the Network Upgrade Kickoff, Business Continuity Planning, Cloud Services, how to request or suggest new services, and more. View All News Columbia University Irving Medical Center ColumbiaDoctors About Us Get Help Contact Us Student walk-in support at TechBar Hammer Building, 2nd Floor 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top