Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Department of Neuroscience Site Navigation Home News Faculty Undergraduate Studies Courses Full Course List Concentration Requirements Independent Study Honors FAQ Neuroscience Graduate Program NIH-Brown Graduate Partnership Program Carney Institute for Brain Science Brain Science Postdocs at Brown Speaker Series Shared Equipment People Faculty Research Faculty & Research Associates Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Research Staff Graduate Students Helpful Numbers Print this Page Share this Page Department of Neuroscience Brown University Box GL-N 185 Meeting St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1054 Fax 401-863-1074 Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Home The mission of the Department of Neuroscience is to do excellent teaching and research on the basic functions and diseases of the nervous system. Areas of interest include neural plasticity, information processing, and neuronal and synaptic functions, particularly as they relate to development, sensory perception, motor behavior, and cognition. The twenty-five campus-based Neuroscience faculty train undergraduate, graduate, postdoctoral, and medical students in molecular, cellular, developmental, systems, cognitive, and theoretical neuroscience. There are currently over 50 doctoral students in the Neuroscience Graduate Program and the innovative Brown-NIH Graduate Program Partnership, and over 120 undergraduate students are enrolled in the neuroscience concentration. Members of the Department also participate in the MRI Research Facility, the Center for Vision Research, and several NIH and NIMH training grants for graduate and postdoctoral fellows studying neuroscience and vision sciences. The Department is also a major contributor to the Carney Institute for Brain Science, a multidisciplinary consortium of about ninety faculty from eleven departments that promotes collaborative theoretical and experimental studies of the brain. The Neuroscience Department Strives to be an Inclusive and Equitable Environment The Neuroscience department at Brown is committed to centering efforts towards diversity, equity and inclusion in all our teaching, mentoring and research. This is grounded in our knowledge that the best science requires an inclusive environment, and that long-standing biases exist in STEM that negatively impact members of our community and science as a whole. Thus, we strive to be a community in which a diverse set of thoughts, perspectives and experiences are valued. One where anybody, regardless of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, class, sexual orientation, religion, age, body size and ability feels that they are welcome here and belong here. We believe that everyone here should have a seat at the table and be given the opportunity to bring out their best in an environment where an individual’s strengths and specific challenges are recognized, and where as a community we work towards elevating every individual while collectively lowering barriers that impede them. We are a community committed to educating ourselves, to learning about and from each other, and to openly discussing biases, barriers and inequities that some of us may face, while committing ourselves to recognizing and eliminating them. We are committed to bringing this effort of equity-mindedness to our research laboratories, our classrooms, our meetings and our social events. In instances where we fail to do so, we commit to accepting feedback, learning from our mistakes and working to improve. We are also committed to actively combating racism and racist practices, advocating for and bringing about institutional change, and serving as a role model for the rest of the university. You are welcome here! Hippocamppal Neuron by:Torrey Truszkowsky Corticothalamic Axons By: Connors Lab Utriusque cosmi by Robert Fludd (1574-1637) Growth Cones by: Jaworski Lab Motor Neurons by: Jaworski Lab Current Source Density Analysis by K. Pratt, A. Hamodi Motor and Sensory Neurons By: Jaworski Lab Fly Brain by Rachel Muster, Kaun Lab Also in Department of Neuroscience Site Navigation Home News Faculty Undergraduate Studies Courses Full Course List Concentration Requirements Independent Study Honors FAQ Neuroscience Graduate Program NIH-Brown Graduate Partnership Program Carney Institute for Brain Science Brain Science Postdocs at Brown Speaker Series Shared Equipment People Faculty Research Faculty & Research Associates Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Research Staff Graduate Students Helpful Numbers Print this Page Share this Page Department of Neuroscience Brown University Box GL-N 185 Meeting St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-1054 Fax 401-863-1074 Calendar Jun 1 11:00am - 12:30pm DPHB Academic Grand Rounds: Social (In)Justice and Mental Health Jun 2 1:00pm - 5:00pm Center for Translational Neuroscience Spring Retreat 2022 Jun 8 All Day The 5th Multidisciplinary Conference on Reinforcement Learning and Decision Making Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Grand Rounds Jun 10 8:00am - 4:30pm Symposium: “Emerging Areas of Science” View full calendar > 2018 Neuroscience Commencement Ceremony Please see the link below for photos of the 2018 Neuroscience Commencement Ceremony. (Distributed June 5, 2018) Dr. Diane Lipscombe Elected President of the Society for Neuroscience The Department of Neuroscience would like to congratulate Dr. Diane Lipscombe on her election to the office of president for the Society for Neuroscience. See the link below to the announcement on the Society for Neuroscience website. (Distributed June 12, 2017) 2017 Neuroscience Commencement Ceremony Please see the link below for photos of the 2017 Neuroscience Commencement Ceremony. (Distributed June 1, 2017) SfN Expands Advocacy Efforts to Amplify Need for Funding Brown faculty members Dr. Jerome Sanes and Dr. Monica Linden participe in Capitol Hill Day sponsored by the Society for Neuroscience to advocate for scientific research on March 23, 2017. See the link to the full story below: (Distributed April 21, 2017) view more news Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Affiliates Brown Alpert Medical School Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity