Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES COMPARATIVE HISTORY OF IDEAS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CHID 101 Introduction to the Comparative History of Ideas (2) Provides a methodological, curricular, and intellectual introduction to comparative history of ideas. Teaches the importance of interdisciplinary inquiry in research and provides models for how to formulate, undertake, and present interdisciplinary research projects. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 101 CHID 110 The Question of Human Nature (5) VLPA/I&S Considers the relationship between the individual and his/her culture. Traces the evolution of the notion of human nature in Europe and the United States and compares this tradition with representations of the human being from other cultural traditions. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 110 CHID 111 History of the Present (5) I&S Nicolaas P. Barr Introduces students to thinking about social, cultural, and political issues of current relevance as objects of historical inquiry and about the role of historical argumentation in contemporary public debate. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 111. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 111 CHID 120 Yoga: Past and Present (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV Studies yoga and its history, practice, literature, and politics. From the ancient past to modern yoga, studies essential texts and ideas, as well as the effects of class, religion, gender, nationalism, development, Marxism, colonialism, and physical culture on yoga. Offered: jointly with RELIG 120; A. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 120 CHID 205 Method, Imagination, and Inquiry (5) VLPA Examines ideas of method and imagination in a variety of texts, in literature, philosophy, and science. Particularly concerned with intellectual backgrounds and methods of inquiry that have shaped modern Western literature. Offered: jointly with ENGL 205. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 205 CHID 206 Violence and Contemporary Thought (5) I&S, DIV Nicolaas P. Barr Modern and contemporary ideas about violence and their emergence as intellectual responses to historical events. Topics may include histories of physical violence, such as slavery, colonialism, or the Holocaust, as well as structural forms of violence. Offered: jointly with JEW ST 206; A. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 206 CHID 207 Introduction to Intellectual History (5) I&S Ideas in historical context. Comparative and developmental analysis of Western conceptions of "community," from Plato to Freud. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 207. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 207 CHID 210 The Idea of the University: Ways of Learning, Exploring, and Knowing (5) I&S Considers different ways of learning, exploring, and knowing in the context of the historical development, social context, and impact of universities in general and of the University of Washington in particular. Includes reflective workshops on choosing areas of study (majors) in collaboration with Undergraduate Advising. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 210 CHID 220 Literature and Science (5, max. 15) VLPA Gary Handwerk Introduces the rich and complex relationship between science and literature from the seventeenth century to the present day. Students examine selected literary, scientific, and philosophical texts, considering ways in which literature and science can be viewed as forms of imaginative activity. Offered: jointly with C LIT 210. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 220 CHID 222 BioFutures (5) I&S/NW Explores key legal, ethical, cultural, scientific, and commercial aspects of the rapidly changing world of biotechnology and bioinformatics. Specifically asks how new discoveries in biology encourage us to rethink issues of ownership, communication, geography, identity, and artistic practice. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 222 CHID 230 Introduction to Disability Studies (5) I&S, DIV J. WOIAK Introduces the field of disability studies. Focuses on the theoretical questions of how society predominantly understands disability and the social justice consequences. Examines biological, social, cultural, political, and economic determinants in the framing of disability. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 230/LSJ 230. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 230 CHID 235 Representations of Disability in Popular Culture (5) I&S, DIV Social construction of 'disability' reflected in and shaped by popular culture. Examples from sports coverage, film, television, fashion, and art both by and about disabled people. Ways in which disability representations in the media reify, problematize, and/or challenge marginalization of this social status. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 235/SOC 235. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 235 CHID 250 Special Topics: Introduction to the History of Ideas (5, max. 15) I&S Examines a different subject or problem from a comparative framework. Satisfies the Gateways major/minor requirement. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 250 CHID 260 Re-Thinking Diversity (5) I&S, DIV Bushnell Considers the notion of diversity from many scholarly perspectives and from personal engagements. Critically engages historical thinking about diversity and examines contemporary issues such as racism, sexism, and the cultural politics of difference. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 260 CHID 270 Special Topics (5, max. 15) I&S Each special topics course examines a different subject or problem from a comparative framework. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 270 CHID 280 Indigenous Encounters: Politics, Culture, and Representation in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Garcia Explores the contemporary cultural and political transformations advanced by indigenous groups and their advocates in Latin America. Examines the concept of indigeneity, the cultural politics of indigenous mobilization, and the effects of international development policies on indigenous communities. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 280. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 280 CHID 298 Pre-Departure Seminars (2) I&S Prepares students to participate in CHID international programs. Prerequisite: students must be accepted to an international program prior to registration. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 298 CHID 309 Marx and the Marxian Tradition in Western Thought: The Foundations of Modern Cultural Criticism I (5) I&S Critically examines the formation of modern Western culture, politics, and society through an historical analysis of the work of Karl Marx and the thinkers, artists, and activists who assimilated and transformed Marxian concepts from the late nineteenth century to the present. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 309. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 309 CHID 314 The Psychoanalytic Revolution in Historical Perspective (5) I&S Genesis and evolution of Freudian theory in context of the crisis of liberal-bourgeois culture in central Europe and parallel developments in philosophy, literature, and social theory. Emergence and division of the psychoanalytic movement. Transformation of psychoanalysis in British, French, and especially American cultural traditions. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 314. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 314 CHID 319 Nietzsche and the Nietzschean Legacy in Western Thought: Foundations of Modern Cultural Critique II (5) I&S Critically examines the formation of modern Western politics, society, and cultures through a historical analysis of the thought of Freidrich Nietzsche and the thinkers, artists, and activists who assimilated and transformed the Nietzschean perspective during the twentieth century. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 319. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 319 CHID 332 Disability and Society (5, max. 15) I&S Joanne Woiak Analyzes disability representations in literature, film, and other cultural texts; social science approaches to disability marginalization and empowerment; intersectionality of disability with other markers of diversity and identity. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 332/LSJ 332; AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 332 CHID 335 Sex, Gender, and Disability (5) I&S, DIV Examines ways that disability, sex, and gender are connected as socially constructed categories. Topics include the ways in which the sexuality of people with disabilities is experienced and represented, the intersection of disability and gender inequality, and how the field of disability studies relates to and can transform other theoretical approaches to gender and sex. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 335/GWSS 335. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 335 CHID 337 Social Construction of Madness and Mental Health in the United States (5) I&S The construct of "mental health" and mental "un-health" from a sociological perspective. How categories such as mental illness, intellectual and developmental disability, cognitive impairment, and Mad Studies developed in the United States. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 337/SOC 337. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 337 CHID 350 Women in Law and Literature (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Representations of women in American law and literature. Considers how women's political status and social roles have influenced legal and literary accounts of their behavior. Examines how legal cases and issues involving women are represented in literary texts and also how law can influence literary expression. Offered: jointly with GWSS 350. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 350 CHID 370 The Cultural Impact of Information Technology (5) VLPA/I&S Utilizing approaches from the history of technology, cultural studies, and literary theory, seeks to analyze the cultural and social impact of information technology. Considers how information technologies impact our relationships with others, our concept(s) of self, and the structure of the communities to which we belong. Offered: jointly with COM 302. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 370 CHID 380 Theories In the Study of Religion (5) I&S Christian L Novetzke, James K Wellman Jr Provides a variety of approaches to the study of religion centered on examining the relationship between religion and modernity in the tradition of post-enlightenment, Euro-American scholarship. Examines theories of religion across disciplines: history, anthropology, sociology, Marxism, feminism, postmodernism, political theology, and Freudian psycho-analytical theory. Offered: jointly with RELIG 380. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 380 CHID 390 Colloquium in the History of Ideas (5) I&S Phillip S Thurtle Investigates the theoretical and practical problems of interpretation and knowledge production in a topic chosen by the instructor. Primarily for majors. Prerequisite: CHID 101. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 390 CHID 395 Interdisciplinary Praxis Lab (5) MariaElena Garcia, Caroline C Simpson, Phillip S Thurtle As preparation for senior thesis work, introduces the importance of reflection combined with research methods in the form of a research praxis. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 395 CHID 399 Internship (5, max. 10) Off-campus engagement with a local, national, or international organization, in an apprenticeship or internship capacity. Supervised by on-site field supervisor and Comparative History of Ideas faculty member. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 399 CHID 417 Enter the Dragon: Seminar on World Cultures through the Asian Martial Arts (5) I&S Novetzke Examines how the martial arts have preserved religious, cultural, and philosophical aspects of the world areas of their origin, as well as the new cultures and international communities that have adopted and reinvented their practices and philosophies, including India, China, Japan, Korea, Brazil, and Euro-America. Offered: jointly with JSIS B 417. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 417 CHID 419 Disability in the Arts (5) I&S/VLPA, DIV Examines how the expressive capacities of the arts capture, complicate, and transform the experience of disability. Recommended: DIS ST 230, LSJ 230, or CHID 230. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 419. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 419 CHID 430 Topics in Disability Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Theoretical, critical, analytical, or comparative examination of an issue or issues in Disability Studies. Topics vary. Prerequisite: either DIS ST/CHID/LSJ 230, DIS ST 332, DIS ST 433, or DIS ST 434. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 430/LSJ 430. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 430 CHID 433 Disability Law, Policy, and the Community (5) I&S, DIV Addresses the history of legal rights of disabled people, U. S. disability policy, and the role of community activism and other forces in policy development and systems change. Introduces the existing social service system that affects disabled people. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 433/LSJ 433. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 433 CHID 434 Civil and Human Rights Law for Disabled People (5) I&S, DIV Brown Expands knowledge of civil and human rights for disabled people. Examines the American perspective (ADA) as well as various international models including the United Nations' International Human Rights treaties as they relate to disabled people. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 434/LSJ 434; A. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 434 CHID 437 Crime, Law, and Mental Illness (5) I&S, DIV Explores experiences of those with mental illness in the criminal justice system and involuntary civil commitment system. Emphasis on societal responses including the emergence of therapeutic courts and specialized police training. Examines how courts, legislature, and communities balance public safety and civil liberties. Offered: jointly with DIS ST 437/LSJ 437. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 437 CHID 442 Roma Eterna (5) VLPA/I&S Explores the historical layers of meaning in the artifacts and monuments of Rome to reflect on its transformation over time as a symbol of the human aspiration for both temporal order and spiritual and aesthetic transcendence. Specific periods considered for reading and daily site visits include Ancient Rome; Imperial Rome; Medieval Rome, Renaissance Rome; Baroque Rome; Romanticism, The Grand Tour and the Risorgimento; and Fascist Rome. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 442 CHID 444 Eye and Mind (5) VLPA/I&S/NW P. THURTLE Investigates life as an emergent phenomenon across the disciplines of biophilosophy, art, art history, literary criticism, and information studies with an emphasis on interdisciplinary methods. Addresses key issues in phenomenology, social theory, contemporary bioart, and complexity studies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 444 CHID 459 Narrative Journalism (5) VLPA/I&S Introduces the rigorous reporting and literary writing techniques of narrative journalism. Concentrates on producing nonfiction narrative articles for publication. Offered: jointly with COM 459. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 459 CHID 461 Democracy and Development in Central and Eastern Europe: Study Abroad (5) I&S Smith Examines the relationship between democratization, economic development, and social transformation in Central and Eastern Europe. Offered on CHID study abroad programs in Central and Eastern Europe. Offered: ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 461 CHID 470 CHID Study Abroad (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 470 CHID 471 Europe Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 471 CHID 472 Latin America Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 472 CHID 473 Africa Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 473 CHID 474 Asia Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 474 CHID 475 East Asia Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 475 CHID 476 South Pacific Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 476 CHID 477 Middle East Study Abroad (5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study-abroad program. Specific course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 477 CHID 480 Special Topics: Advanced Study of the History of Ideas (5, max. 15) I&S Examines a different subject or problem from a comparative framework with an interdisciplinary perspective. Satisfies the Gateways major/minor requirement. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 480 CHID 484 Colonial Encounters (5) I&S History of European colonialism from the 1750s to the present, with an emphasis on British and French colonial encounters. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 484. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 484 CHID 485 Comparative Colonialism (5) I&S, DIV Vicente L. Rafael Explores the historic roots and practices of colonialism throughout the world, focusing on the roles of nationalism, cosmopolitanism, and imperial domination. Treats colonialism as a world event whose effects continue to be felt and whose power needs to be addressed. Offered: jointly with HSTCMP 485. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 485 CHID 487 Culture, Politics, and Violence in Latin America (5) I&S, DIV Garcia Examines notions of "otherness" and the power to label as central to understanding inequality, human rights, and social struggle. Uses academic texts, films, documentaries, historical fiction, plays, and testimonials to interrogate the complexities of violence and social justice in Latin America, one of the most unequal regions in the world. Offered: jointly with JSIS A 485. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 487 CHID 488 Encountering Animals: Ethics, Culture, and Politics (5) I&S, DIV Garcia Explores some ethical, political, and cultural questions regarding non-human animals and invites student to engage in debates about companion animals, the industrial food complex, zoos, and links between race, class, gender, sexuality, and species. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 488 CHID 490 Research Seminar (5) VLPA/I&S Intensive readings in specific topic. Students complete individual research projects. Satisfies the CHID senior thesis requirement for students who declared the CHID major prior to Summer 2014. Prerequisite: CHID 390 and CHID 395. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 490 CHID 491 Senior Thesis (5-) I&S Critical and methodological issues. Required of candidates for an Honors degree. Prerequisite: CHID 390. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 491 CHID 492 Senior Thesis (-5-) I&S Critical and methodological issues. Required of candidates for an Honors degree. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 492 CHID 493 Senior Thesis (-5) I&S Research and writing of thesis under supervision of a faculty member. Required of candidates for an Honors degree. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 493 CHID 495 Close Readings in Theory (1-5, max. 15) I&S Close readings of a specific work, author, artist, or body of work. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 495 CHID 496 Focus Groups (1-2, max. 4) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 496 CHID 497 Peer Facilitators (5, max. 20) View course details in MyPlan: CHID 497 CHID 498 Special Colloquia (1-5, max. 20) I&S Each colloquium examines a different subject or problem from a comparative framework. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 498 CHID 499 Undergraduate Independent Study or Research (1-5, max. 10) Supervised independent study for students who wish to pursue topics not available in regular course offerings. View course details in MyPlan: CHID 499 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022