Home About Join Cadre and Staff Contact AFROTC Detachment 165 We build next-generation wingmen, leaders, and warriors. COVID-19 Information More information can be found here. Welcome to the home of Air Force ROTC's Detachment 165, based out of the Georgia Institute of Technology and host to 11 cross-town schools in the metro Atlanta area. Since its inception in the 1920s, Detachment 165 has commissioned over 1,700 officers for the United States Air Force and was recently ranked in the top 10% of AFROTC detachments nationwide. The key to our success is simple, and can be identified easily as the three core values of the Air Force: Integrity First, Service Before Self, and Excellence in All We Do. Detachment 165's mission is to train cadets and develop leaders who will excel in the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force and go on to positively impact their units, their airmen, and the world. — 165th Cadet Wing Commander, Fall 2021 What is AFROTC? Air Force ROTC is a college program that prepares you to become a future officer in the United States Air Force or United States Space Force. In AFROTC, you'll learn the fundamentals of effective leadership and apply those lessons in real-world environments and exercises. AFROTC cadets earn commissions as active-duty Air Force and Space Force officers upon graduation and go on to serve in rewarding careers across the globe. Learn more What does a typical training day look like? Training occurs on Tuesdays and Thursdays. A typical day begins in the morning with an hour-long physical training (PT) session. Cadets then shower and change into the uniform of the day before heading off to ROTC classes taught by active-duty cadre. Freshman and sophomore classes are one credit hour (meeting once a week), while classes for juniors and seniors are three credit hours (meeting twice a week). After class, leadership laboratory (LLAB) begins. LLAB is led by junior and senior cadets and overseen by cadre. LLAB applies lessons learned from class in a hands-on training environment. Subjects include marching and drill, small unit tactics, group leadership problems (GLPs), field training exercises, guest lectures, and more. After LLAB wraps up, cadets are free to attend normal college classes. Learn more How do I enroll? Ready for the challenge? Enrollment information for next semester can be found at the link below. Enrollment What does it take to join? To join Air Force ROTC, you must be a U.S. citizen age 14 or older, be of good moral character, and be able to pass AFROTC academic, fitness, and medical requirements. These include (but aren't limited to): Academic: Be enrolled as a full-time student at Georgia Tech or an affiliated crosstown school, maintain a 2.5 GPA (if on scholarship) or 2.0 GPA (not on scholarship), pass the AFOQT standardized test Fitness: Be within weight standards; pass the Air Force PT Test each semester which includes: an abdominal measurement, 1 minute of push-ups, 1 minute of sit-ups, timed 1.5-mile run Medical: Pass a medical examination scheduled and reviewed by the Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DoDMERB) Additional requirements apply for current active-duty enlisted personnel. Learn more What happens after graduation? After completing all Air Force ROTC and academic degree requirements, cadets earn a commission as second lieutenants in the Air Force or Space Force, appointed by the President of the United States. The length of your initial service commitment depends on your career. Most officers have a four-year active-duty service commitment. Pilots have a ten-year active-duty service commitment, and both Combat System Officers and Air Battle Managers have a six-year service commitment upon completion of their respective trainings. Nursing graduates earn a commission in the Air Force Nurse Corps and serve four years on active duty after completing their licensing examination. Learn more Where can I learn more about AFROTC scholarships? Air Force ROTC can help you pay for college with a variety of available scholarships. These scholarships are available for high-school seniors about to begin college as well as current college students who recently joined ROTC. AFROTC scholarships can pay for up to 100% of the cost of your school's tuition and authorized fees. Scholarship recipients also receive a monthly living expense stipend and an annual book stipend. Learn more Launch your future. Join Detachment 165 AFROTC Home Air Force Home Air Force Recruiting Holm Center Air Force Freedom of Information Act Space Force Home AFROTC Detachment 165 Georgia Institute of Technology 404-894-7381 recruiting@afrotc.gatech.edu Privacy and Security Notice Current as of Jan 2022 Cadet log in Built with by Detachment 165 U.S. Air Force photo of F-22 by Justin Connaher U.S. Air Force photo of T-38 by Senior Airman Taylor Crul U.S. Air National Guard photo of A-10 by Senior Airman Mercedee Wilds U.S. Air Force photo of F-35 by Senior Airman Tristan Biese U.S. Air Force photo of C-130 by TSgt. Michael Mason U.S. Air Force photo of USAF Thunderbirds by Senior Airman Andrew D. Sarver U.S. Air Force photo of rocket launch by Airman 1st Class Dalton Williams