Skip to main content Toggle navigation University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education About Penn GSE & Our Impact Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Diversity & Inclusion Catalyst @ Penn GSE Penn GSE Leadership Contact Us Academics & Research Program Finder Academic Divisions & Programs Professional Development & Continuing Education Center for Professional Learning Teacher Programs & Certifications Undergraduates Dual and Joint Degrees Faculty Directory Research Centers, Projects & Initiatives Lectures & Colloquia Books & Publications Academic Journals Admissions & Financial Aid Application Requirements & Deadlines Tuition & Financial Aid Campus Visits & Events International Students Penn Undergraduates Non-Degree Studies Contact Admissions / Request Information Student Experience Life at Penn GSE Penn GSE Career Paths Living in Philadelphia DE&I Resources for Students Student Organizations Student Blogs Career & Professional Development News & Events News Events Calendar The Educator's Playbook Find an Expert Explore by Topic Philadelphia Impact Global Initiatives Race, Equity & Inclusion Counseling & Psychology Education Innovation & Entrepreneurship Education Policy & Analysis Higher Education Language, Literacy & Culture Leadership Teaching & Learning Special Topic: COVID-19 Support Penn GSE The Future of Education Our Impact The Power of Possibility Ways to Give Contact Development & Alumni Relations Find a Program Request Info Apply Make a Gift Info For Alumni Current Students Staff & Faculty Donors Employers Search form Search You are here Home > Academics & Research > Faculty Directory > Jessie Harper Jessie Harper Download Hi-Res Photo Assistant Dean, Faculty Affairs and Diversity Literacy, Culture, and International Education Division Co-Director, HEARD (Hub for Equity, Anti-Oppression, Research, and Development) Contact jessieh@upenn.edu (215) 573-3725 Media Inquiries: Contact Penn GSE Communications. Education Ed.D. (Education) University of Pennsylvania, 2011 M.S.Ed. (Education) University of Pennsylvania, 2010 M.S.O.D. (SAS) University of Pennsylvania, 2006 B.S. (Management) Rosemont College, 2004 Programs Mid-Career Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership Ed.D. Race, Diversity, and Equity in Higher Education Programs Education, Culture, and Society Ph.D. Education, Culture, and Society M.S.Ed. Executive Doctorate in Higher Education Management Ed.D. Bio Nav Biography Professional Biography Dr. Harper earned her M.S. from University of Pennsylvania’s School of Arts and Sciences in 2006, and an M.S.Ed. from University of Pennsylvania’s Graduate School of Education (GSE) in 2010. In May 2011, she received her Doctorate from University of Pennsylvania’s Graduate School of Education. Dr. Harper is currently the Assistant Dean of Faculty Affairs and Diversity in Penn GSE, and inaugural Co-Director of HEARD (Hub for Equity, Anti-Oppression, Research, and Development). In addition to teaching at Penn GSE, Dr. Harper also teaches American Racism and Understanding Social Change in the School of Social Policy and Practice. A course that Dr. Harper developed and currently teaches entitled Examining the School to Prison Pipeline: Implications of History, Policy, and Race, draws from contemporary scholarship in literature, sociology, criminal justice, education, history, and law. This course seeks to: (1) examine the historical context and policies that have contributed to the school-to-prison pipeline, (2) analyze the workings of contemporary racism and its relationship to education and corrections policies, and (3) explore interventions for an alternate approach. Dr. Harper has worked as a part-time Instructor at Project H.O.M.E., an agency in North Philadelphia that offers general education classes and workforce development training to Philadelphia residents. As Adult Education Instructor, she taught Language Arts, Writing, Pre-GED courses, and other job preparatory subjects to adult students. Research Interests and Current Projects Dr. Harper’s research interests include ex-offender reentry, especially the challenges faced by former prisoners as they reenter the workforce. Her doctoral dissertation explored how those most closely involved in assisting former prisoners to reenter the workforce conceptualize the challenges they face after a period of prisonization—the negative socio-psychological effects of the prison experience. She presented the results of her research to the Criminal Business Committee, a group of Federal Judges who oversee the reentry effort in Philadelphia. She has also presented her research to the Reentry Team at the Federal Probation Department. Courses Courses EDUC 646 Examining the School to Prison Pipeline: Implications for History, Policy, and Race EDUC 594 Diversity in Higher Education SWRK 603 American Racism SWRK 713 Understanding Social Change: Issues of Race and Gender University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education 3700 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 1-877-PENN-GSE admissions@gse.upenn.edu About Admissions & Financial Aid Find a Program Visiting Campus Alumni Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Directory Open Faculty Positions Support Penn GSE Academic Calendar Events Calendar Career & Professional Development Canvas Access PennInTouch Libraries Registrar/Student Records Office Webmail Business Office Facility Services Human Resources Information Technology Staff Directory U@Penn Report accessibility issues and request help © 2022 Penn Graduate School of Education Facebook Twitter Vimeo LinkedIn Instagram Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Penn GSE Equal Opportunity & Harassment Policies