Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Pharmacy Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search College of Pharmacy Prospective Students Pharm.D. Professional Degree Program Graduate Programs Residency & Fellowship Dual Degree Programs Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures About Us Mission, Vision and Values Vision 2020 Strategic Plan Accreditation PharmD Program Quality Indicators Administration About the Dean Academic Departments Faculty and Staff Resources Policies & Procedures Facilities Visitor Information Directory Academic Departments Pharmacy Practice and Translational Research Pharmacological and Pharmaceutical Sciences Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy People Current Students Pharm.D. Graduate Students Overview Dual Degree Programs Library and Learning Resources Commencement Student Services Directory Student Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Diversity UH Center for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Division of Student Affairs and Enrollment Services AACP Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Antiracism Research Research Centers & Institutes Core Laboratory Collaborations UHCOP-DLDCCC Alliance for Drug Discovery-Development and Education Research Education Opportunities Cancer Research Education Program Office of Research News & Events Events Publications Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Golden Cougars Alumni Reunions Volunteer Opportunities Pharmacy Alumni Association Giving Where to Give Types of Gifts Giving Societies Make A Gift HelpDesk Ticketing System UH Home College of Pharmacy Current Students Dual Programs Current Students PharmD Overview Graduate Students Overview Dual Programs PharmD-MBA PHOP PhD-Applied Economics MA Library & Learning Resources Graduation Student Handbooks, Polices and Procedures Dual Degree Programs Pharm.D./Master of Business Administration (MBA) In the midst of a rapidly changing health care industry, the Pharm.D./MBA offered by UH College of Pharmacy and the C.T. Bauer College of Business is designed to meet the needs of future pharmacists intent on pursuing career tracks in management, C-suite executive leadership positions or entrepreneurship. The dual-degree program offers students the benefits of completing the program in less time and at less cost than pursuing each program separately. Each program allows a specific number of credit hours to be applied toward the other component degree of the dual-degree program. For more information, please visit the Pharm.D./MBA page. Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Sciences (Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy Concentration) and M.A. in Applied Economics Health care is one of the fastest growing industries in the U.S. and around the world, creating a significant demand for skilled analysts specializing in health economics and outcomes research (HEOR). Given rising healthcare costs that are driven in part by skyrocketing drug prices, insurance companies, consulting firms, the pharmaceutical industry and medical device manufacturers, and academic and government organizations are looking for specialists with background in health coupled with economics to conduct cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses to improve efficiency in healthcare and drive the costs down. The dual-degree program for the Pharmaceutical Sciences Ph.D. (Pharmaceutical Health Outcomes and Policy Concentration) at the UH College of Pharmacy and the M.A. in Applied Economics at the UH College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences presents complementary fundamental and practical knowledge and experiences to excel in HEOR career paths. For more information, visit the Pharmaceutical Sciences-PHOP Concentration Ph.D./Applied Economics M.A. page. University of Houston College of Pharmacy 4349 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, Texas 77204-5000 713-743-1239 Prospective Students Research News & Events Pharm.D. Performance Indicators Handbooks, Policies and Procedures Update Alumni Information About Us About the Dean Academic Departments Facilities Directory ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies