Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Psychology About People Diversity Undergraduate Admissions Major in Psychology Minor in Psychology Distance Education Psychology Advising Appointments Scholarships Announcements Graduate Department of Psychology Graduate Scholarships Admissions Handbooks and Bulletins Clinical Developmental, Cognitive, & Behavioral Neuroscience Industrial Organizational Social Psychological Science Research Clinics Directions Giving Ways to Give What to Support Types of Donations Contact Us UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Department of Psychology START Clinical Services START The Center Goals History Facility Clinical Services START Team Giving Contact Us Clinical Services START provides a range of programs designed to help people of all ages who experience anxiety, stress, and trauma-related problems, creating healthier lifestyles, and greater resilience. Accessibly priced, some programs are further subsidized through research grants or public health insurance. Treatment is based on the latest knowledge of cognitive behavioral therapy and is designed to address individual patient needs. Our programs can literally be life changing for sufferers. We offer treatment for children, adolescents, and adults. Additionally, we host evidenced-based training on assessment/treatment for clinicians. In the past, our faculty has partnered with other community agencies, including school districts, the justice system, and halfway houses to provide low or no-cost services to children, adults and families. START will further integrate clinical service delivery with primary care and behavioral health providers to be a seamless service provider. START will fill in many current gaps in the current Houston mental health delivery system and work closely with groups that share our goals. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies