Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Degree Programs HomeJDJD/MBAJD/MA in Pol. ScienceJD/MPHMPH Fast-TrackPart-time Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs Home Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program Law Review Law Review HomeEditorial BoardEditor-in-ChiefJoining Law ReviewVirtual Tour of Law Review SuiteSymposiumSubscriptionsArchivesCurrent VolumeConnect with Us Advocacy Program Moot Court BoardJoining Moot Court BoardIn-School CompetitionsTravel Team CompetitionsPast Champions Inst. for Health Law & Policy Legal Methods Program Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Programs Tax Law Certificate TAX LAW CERTIFICATE Memphis Law is proud to offer a Certificate in Tax for our students. Tax law affects and influences nearly every aspect of our lives, from sales tax, income tax, property tax, charitable deductions, tax credits and inheritance tax just to name a few areas. Students studying tax law will be able to apply their knowledge not only to their work but also to their daily decisions. In studying the Internal Revenue Service Code, students in the Certificate in Tax program develop and strengthen their critical thinking skills. Knowledge of the code is essential not only for tax practitioners, but also for attorneys practicing in various fields such as labor and employment, family law, insurance, social security, workers compensation, and corporate litigation. For more information about the Certificate in Tax program, please contact Prof. William P. Kratzke at wkratzke@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3221. Certificate Requirements Certificate requirements are available on the Certificate Comparison Chart here. Learning Outcomes To earn the Tax Law Certificate, a student must earn 15 credit hours at above-normal levels of performance in tax courses that include Basic Income Tax, Corporate Taxation, and Partnership Taxation with a view towards developing the capacity to – Identify the range of fundamental U.S. federal income taxation issues applicable to individuals and juridical entities. Read carefully the Internal Revenue Code and Regulations. Identify a range of policies reflected in the Internal Revenue Code. Demonstrate through pro bono activity or clinical experience sensitivity to the needs of low- to middle- income taxpayers. How to Enroll A student enrolls by completing the Certificate Declaration Form and then submitting the completed Tax Law Certificate Enrollment Form to the Director of the Tax Law Certificate program. In completing the form, the student certifies that he or she can satisfy the grade requirements for the Certificate program and is committed to completing all of the Program's requirements. A student will be dropped from the Program if he or she fails to meet the requirements. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/4/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.