Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar Virtual Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Education Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Titan Takeover Career Exploration Program Testimonial <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program The intent of the Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program is to provide students with an opportunity to explore various career paths and gain first hand insight into an organization’s culture, structure, operations, and day to day activities. This insider look into your organization will also provide students with the knowledge of certain skills and responsibilities necessary to be successful within a particular position of interest. Spring Hybrid Edition Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program 2022 Titan Takeover Host Application Titan Takeover Host Guide Timeframe The Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program will take place during the month of April 2022. Hosts will have an option to offer a virtual or in-person career exploration site visit. Titan Takeover Timeline Organization Open Registration: November 2022 – January 7, 2022 Student Registration: Opening January 27, 2022 Organizations notified of matches: Week of February 8th Students will contact Host to confirm shadow details: March 18 (at the latest) Titan Takeover Experiences will take place during the month of April 2022 Hear it from the hosts “The Titan Takeover provides a unique opportunity to connect with students more meaningfully and provide them with deeper insight into the opportunity provided by my organization.” “The Titan Takeover program is an enjoyable experience, a great opportunity to interact with students who are seeking to learn what their career calling may be, and a chance to involve employees in a function they may not generally be a part of.” “We enjoyed having students in our facility. They were exposed to our industry as well as our company culture. I think this program is an amazing opportunity for students to learn more about industries.” “We enjoyed sharing our organization and allowing students to get to know our programs and interact with our children, experience our culture, and learn our mission and values.” Digital copies of the Titan Takeover Reports can be downloaded by selecting the following report years: Titan Takeover Report 2016 Titan Takeover Report 2017 Titan Takeover Report 2018 Titan Takeover Report 2019 SPring break 2019 Participating Employers This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/22/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.