Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate Finance Course Catalog Finance (B.B.A.) Finance, Real Estate Concentration (B.B.A.) Minors Banking and Financial Services Business Finance Real Estate Risk Management and Insurance Certificates Financial Analyst & Planning Programs Professional Real Estate Tracks Financial AnalystFinancial Planning Master of Science in Business Administration (M.S.B.A.) concentration in Finance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business Administration with concentration in Finance Program Rankings Take Action Cook Analytics & Trading Lab Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home FIR Programs Risk Management, Financial Planning and Insurance Minor Risk Management, Financial Planning and Insurance Minor The minor in risk management and insurance includes study in the areas of investments, corporate finance, financial institutions, principles of insurance, risk management, property and liability insurance, and life and health insurance. The knowledge and analytical abilities acquired by students majoring in Risk Management and Insurance prepare them for rewarding careers. There are many diverse employment opportunities in Risk Management and Insurance. Career Opportunities Career opportunities in risk management and insurance include sales (agent, broker, direct writer), claims, underwriting, ratemaking, risk management, loss control, investments, accounting, data processing, law, and other functional areas. Scholarships and Internships Scholarships are available from the Memphis RIMS Chapter. In past semesters, majors with a 2.5 GPA or better have received financial support. Insurance Women of Memphis also provides a scholarship. Internships are available with local private and public entities. Many students participate in the campus and off-campus opportunities through college internship programs, and industry introductory positions. Minor Requirements For Students Whose Major Is in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics (9 hours): FIR 4870 - Risk Management Choose two (2) courses from the following: FIR 1220 - Personal Financial Management FIR 3710 - Investments FIR 3810 - Principles of Risk/Insurance FIR 4011 - Retirement and Estate Planning FIR 4620 - Cases in Financial Planning For Students Whose Major Is within another College at the University (21 hours): ACCT 2010 - Fundamentals of Acct I ECON 2020 - Intro to Microeconomics SCMS 2710 - Business Analytics -Statistics or equivalent FIR 4011 - Retirement and Estate Planning FIR 4870 - Risk Management and six (6) additional hours from FIR 1220 or upper division hours in insurance or finance approved by the department chair Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.