Jump to main content User menu Subscribe to our Newsletter Search form Search × faith | knowledge | community Main menu Home About Chaplain & Assistant Dean Assistant to the Chaplain Prayer & Reading Room Students News Events Conversation Series IslamFYI Jummah Mizaan Retreat Qur'an Study Ramadan at Princeton MLP Spirituality Retreat Awards Support Subscribe to eNewsletter Contact Muslim Life Program Ramadan at Princeton MLP Ramadan Community Iftars will be held Tuesdays and Thursdays. Please use this RSVP form to sign up (really important!): bit.ly/mlpiftar & this form to sponsor (much appreciated!): bit.ly/mlpramadan Read more... EID at Princeton MLP EID al-FITR PRAYERS Monday May 2 at 10 AM Carl Fields Center (58 Prospect Ave. Princeton NJ) Come celebrate this glorious occasion with students, family, and friends. Your refreshments are welcome. Read more... Jummah JUMMAH Fridays 1 pm I Murray Dodge Hall, Room 104 Every Friday, students and community members gather for a sermon, prayer, invocations, and fellowship over food. Read more... EID al-FITR PRAYERS Monday May 2 at 10 AM Carl Fields Center (58 Prospect Ave. Princeton NJ) Come celebrate this glorious occasion with students, family, and friends. Your refreshments are welcome. Takbeerat: 10 am Prayer: 10.30 am Suhba & Refreshments: 11 am EVERYONE IS WELCOME August 27, 2021 Welcome to Muslim Life Program, Jummah Mubarak! Dear Beloved Community, As salaamu alaikum and Blessed Muharram, a time for reflection and new beginnings. In this sacred month, which marks the Islamic new year, our Prophet (pbuh) migrated from Mecca to Medina, laying the groundwork for the growing Muslim community to imagine together a meaningful future. Now, as many of us find ourselves in new spaces and unfamiliar territory (or old ones that feel different), the stability of a loving, supportive community can make all the difference. With that, I want to invite and welcome each of you to the Muslim Life Program! I'm deeply humbled and honored to be serving as the Assistant Dean of Muslim Life here at Princeton University. In my short time here so far, I've already met such kind and gracious individuals -- students, staff, faculty, alumni, and community members. I'm excited about the good work we'll do together to make our beautiful community even more compassionate and welcoming, diverse and joyous, and willing to serve others. I'm also eager to bring my love for teaching and experience in spiritual care together in a vibrant Muslim community. My hope is that our Muslim Life Program continues to be a space where people feel nurtured and supported along their spiritual journeys. Beyond our programs and events, I'm also here to be a good conversation partner, share advice, or discuss whatever might be weighing on your heart where a compassionate other can be helpful. In closing, we'll gather again today for our first in-person Jummah prayer since the pandemic. Please review the University’s guidelines for attending on-campus events and pre-register if you're a visitor at bit.ly/mlpjummah. For those unable to attend in person, we'll livestream on our Facebook page. We're filled with joy and look forward to welcoming you into Murray-Dodge again. We'll also continue our Peace Meditation and Quran Study Circle this year, along with other on-campus and virtual events. More details to come. Please reach out with any questions. Again, welcome and may all of our new beginnings be blessed. Fe aman Allah, Imam Khalil Abdullah WEEKLY THursdays 6 PM EST (during the academic year) Qur'an Study Circle - a space to study the Quran together in English with a line-by-line reading, commentary, and discussion led by Imam Khalil Abdullah, with occasional speakers and guests during the semester. This year, we will study Surah Al-Isra (ch. 17). In-person. Murray-Dodge Hall, Room 103. All visitors must pre-register: bit.ly/mlpquranstudy Fridays 1 PM EST (every friday, even during breaks) Jummah Prayer & Gathering - Schedule: •1 pm Quran Recitation of Surah Kahf by Shaffin Siddiqui '22 •1.15 pm Call to Prayer (Athan) by Yusuf Kocaman '23 •1.20 pm Sermon & Prayer (Khutbah & Salat) by Imam Khalil Abdullah or a guest •1.50 pm Invocation (Du’a) by a sister, followed by fellowship (Suhbah) over samosas In Person: Murray-Dodge Hall, 1st Floor (Room 104) Entrance Policy: If you are a visitor (not a PU ID card holder), pre-registration is required here: http://bit.ly/mlpjummah Masks are required and everyone will need to sign in for contact tracing purposes. Please read through the guidelines on the registration form for more details. We will also be live-streaming the sermon and invocation on our Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/princetonmlp Recordings are uploaded afterwards onto: Youtube.com/muslimlifeprogram WEEKLY DU'A REQUESTS Each week, please write any du'a requests for those who are deceased/ill/have other needs here. We'll be encouraging everyone to pray for them, especially on the blessed day of Jummah. Multimedia Video of Mawlid at the Chapel 2020 MLP Celebrating 11 Years Together There are two ways you can make your tax-deductible, sadaqa jariyya (continuous charity) donation: DONATE ONLINE: makeagift.princeton.edu and Include COMMENT: "Donation is exclusively to support Muslim Life Program Fund B0509." DONATE VIA CHECK PAYABLE: Princeton University and cc/memo: Muslim Life Program MAIL: Sohaib Sultan, 2 MURRAY-DODGE HALL. Princeton NJ 08540 View All News EID at Princeton MLP Saturday, Apr 30, 2022 EID al-FITR PRAYERS Monday May 2 at 10 AM Carl Fields Center (58 Prospect Ave. Princeton NJ) Read more > Ramadan at Princeton MLP Thursday, Mar 31, 2022 Ramadan Community Iftars will be held Tuesdays and Thursdays. Read more > 12th Annual Reflections on the Legacy of Imam WD Mohammed Wednesday, Mar 16, 2022 12th Annual Reflections on the Legacy of Imam WD Mohammed Racial Idolatry and its Antidote in Historical Context ... Read more > Subscribe to Our eNewsletter Our weekly e-mail will provide you with the latest news and events right in your mailbox! Subscribe Support Muslim Life Support the Muslim Life Program by donating online safely and conveniently through Princeton University's "Make a Gift" portal! Support Upcoming Events View All Events No upcoming events found. Muslim Life Program Office of Religious Life Murray Dodge Hall, Room 202 Princeton NJ 08544 Imam Khalil Abdullah Assistant Dean, Muslim Life kabdullah@princeton.edu (609) 258-3042 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Vimeo Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University