COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio May 31, 2022 — Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio is squeezing in a summer internship with Tesla in between his spring and fall internship with Delta TechOps. Anllir said the resources available at Wichita State have prepared him to succeed in his real-world career opportunities. Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats May 25, 2022 — Keegan Staats is working at the National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) as an operations assistant. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare him prepare for a career in finance. Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge May 18, 2022 — Three Wichita State University students were named the champions of the 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge with their idea to ease parking frustrations via an app called Everwhen. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford May 12, 2022 — Emily Crawford earned her elementary education degree by way of the Teacher Apprentice Program while working full-time and raising five children. WSU's Shocker Success Center: An oasis of opportunity May 11, 2022 — Former Wichita State University students might remember Clinton Hall as a dark and cold building, but starting in September, it will begin its metamorphosis into the bright and welcoming Shocker Success Center. This project will completely transform Clinton Hall into a holistic resource for student services, said Elizabeth King, president and CEO of the WSU Foundation. Centralizing access to these services will help students stay on course to graduate. Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award May 9, 2022 — Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. Pamela and Alex Ammar honored with Fairmount Founders' Award their support of WSU May 6, 2022 — Pamela Clancy Ammar and Alex Ammar were named recipients of the 2022 Fairmount Founders’ Award at the annual Fairmount Society dinner held on May 5 at Mark Arts. The WSU Foundation gives the award out annually to recognize those who provide outstanding service and generosity to Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Hemberger May 5, 2022 — Kaitlyn Hemberger is one of the first two students at Wichita State to earn a Bachelor of Arts in Applied Linguistics. Kaitlyn is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about their time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Hannah Johnson May 5, 2022 – Hannah, from Augusta, Kansas, will graduate in spring 2022 with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design She chose to attend Wichita State because of how Wichita State helps students find internships and hands-on learning experiences. Meet a Shocker: Joshua Iron Wing May 5, 2022 — Joshua Iron Wing is an adult learner who will graduate in spring 2022. He says she chose Wichita State because of the reputation of the W. Frank Barton School of Business. Meet a Shocker: Joshua Watts May 5, 2022 — Joshua Watts came to Wichita State from Oklahoma City because he was impressed with the university’s facilities and amenities. Meet a Shocker: Truc Nguyen May 5, 2022 — Truc Nguyen took full advantage of the professional and personal opportunities available to her during her time at Wichita State University. Meet a Shocker: Kaitlyn Cowen May 5, 2022 — Kaitlyn Cowen will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of its access and affordability. 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©