Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > December 10, 2021:COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Clinic at CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff December 10, 2021: COVID-19 Vaccine Booster Clinic at CUIMC Dear Colleagues, Access to COVID-19 vaccine boosters at Columbia University Irving Medical Center is being expanded next week. In addition to providing scheduled appointments during the week, there will be a walk-in vaccine booster clinic for CUIMC and NYP employees and volunteers from December 13 through December 17. At the walk-in clinic, COVID-19 Pfizer boosters will be available to eligible individuals who are 18 or older and completed the initial COVID-19 vaccine(s) at least 6 months ago. All eligible employees and volunteers are highly encouraged to get the vaccine booster as soon as possible. The walk-in booster clinic will be located just off the Milstein Lobby in the Heart Center, Rooms 3 and 4, and will be open as follows: Monday, December 13, 8:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Tuesday, December 14, 8:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Wednesday, December 15, 8:00 a.m. – 6:30 p.m. Thursday, December 16, 8:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Friday, December 17, 8:00 a.m. – 3:30 p.m. Additional Locations Offering COVID-19 Vaccine Boosters: Workforce Health & Safety (WHS): View the WHS Booster Schedule. Appointments are required; you can schedule your booster through Connect. Columbia Primary Care: If you are a Columbia Primary Care patient, make an appointment with a nurse for your booster by calling 844-387-2273 (844-387-CARE). If you would like to become a Columbia Primary Care patient, please schedule a visit to address a health care concern or for preventive care. During your appointment, Columbia Primary Care providers are happy to also provide a booster. Schedule your visit through the website or call 844-387-2273 (844-387-CARE). Locations include: Manhattan: 601 W. 113th Street 180 Fort Washington Avenue 2702 Broadway 51 W. 51 Street Outside of CUIMC/NYP: The COVID Vaccine Finder by State can help you find a convenient location in your community. You may also text your local zip code to 438829 (GETVAX) from your cell phone. You will receive a text with a link re: COVID Vax location information. Please bring your CDC card with you so that the booster may be entered. If you use the Excelsior Plus app, this will automatically become part of your record. Thank you for taking this additional step to protect your well-being, and the health and wellness of our patients, communities, and each other. Donna Lynne, DrPH University COVID Director Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top