Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift President President’s Leadership Institute What is the President’s Leadership Institute? The President’s Leadership Institute is a nine-month leadership development program that is designed to support and develop professional and personal leadership within a diverse and inclusive community of faculty and staff at Clemson University. The institute enables participants to build individual effectiveness, understand the power of critical thinking and communication, learn directly from President Jim Clements and embrace their own ability to lead within the Clemson community. Each cohort consists of 25 faculty and staff nominated by University leadership. The President’s Leadership Institute is an exciting opportunity for emerging, high-potential, and high-performing members of the faculty and staff of Clemson University. Goals of the President's Leadership Institute Enable personal and professional growth for every participant. Ensure high levels of familiarity and interaction among faculty and staff from all areas of the University. Offer opportunities for dialogue and discussion on topics important to the state of our University and its environment and constituents. Provide an in-depth, clearer understanding of the internal structure and unique characteristics of our University landscape. Create dialogue and discussion on topics important to the state of our University and its constituents. Explore issues and opportunities facing higher education in general and those specific to Clemson such as our mission, strategies, priorities, governance, stakeholders and internal/external relations. Broaden perspectives of Clemson's impact at a state, regional, national, and international level. Ensure strong University leadership for the future. Improve the University's overall performance. Who can participate? Each cohort of the President’s Leadership Institute (PLI) comprises 25 faculty and staff members from across the University who demonstrate exceptional performance in their respective areas. Faculty are nominated by the college deans and/or the Provost; staff are nominated by the University vice-presidents or corresponding divisional heads or senior administrators of the non-academic units of the University. A selection committee reviews the nominations for the final cohort. . Annual nominations for the cohort will be solicited in April. What can I expect? During the nine-month program, the cohort meets once a month for an all-day session. Meetings take place at various locations on campus or in Greenville, Charleston or Columbia. Program participants should expect meetings to encompass elements of critical thinking, problem solving, self-analysis, exposure to new ideas, and rigorous and healthy discussion on a myriad of topics, and high levels of fellowship and interaction with fellow classmates. Potential topics include: Clemson's history and character (land-grant, mission, governance model) Clemson University as a business: what it takes to run a university and meet the needs of our constituents (finance, facilities, infrastructure) Personal leadership skills/team building/leadership styles Clemson's impact across South Carolina (Greenville, Columbia, Charleston, public service activities) Conflict resolution Diversity and inclusion Governmental relations and external relations Opportunities and challenges in higher education Athletics Strategic planning and university priorities Timeline Nominations Annual nominations for the cohort will be solicited in April. Program runs from August through May of a given academic year. Each program includes: Seven class days An overnight trip to Columbia and Charleston A graduation Variety of site visits outside of main campus President's Leadership Institute Classes Previous Cohorts 2021 Cohort (See Full Member Bios) Andrew Hurley, Associate Professor, Food, Nutrition, & Packaging Sciences Anthony Bernarducci, Associate Professor of Music & Director of Choral and Vocal Studies, CAAH/Performing Arts April Purvis, Legal Counsel & Corporate Secretary, Clemson University Foundation Arthur Leonard, Audit Manager, Office of Internal Audit Beth Bell, Director of Advocacy, Office of Governmental Affairs Brenda Burk, Head of Special Collections, Libraries/Special Collections Celeste (CC) Bates, Professor of Literacy; Director - Clemson Reading, College of Education/Education and Human Development Dustin Foxworth, Chief Business Officer, Office of the Provost & Academic Affairs Johnell Brooks, Associate Professor, CECAS / Department of Automotive Engineering Ken Robinson, Associate Professor, CBSHS/Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice Mandy Hays, Assistant Vice President for Campus Life, Division of Student Affairs Marissa Shuffler Porter, Associate Professor, CBSHS/Psychology Matt Lombardi, Associate Athletic Director for Academic Services, Athletics Matt Hersom, Director and Professor, CAFLS / Piedmont Research & Education Center Matt Chambers, Executive Director of Visual Analytics, CCIT Meredyth Crichton, Executive Director, Energy Innovation Center Mikah Jones, Director of Finance, SCI/Dean's Office Nathan Long, Executive Director, IT Customer Services, CCIT Nicole Davis, Associate Professor and Graduate Program Coordinator, CBSHS/ Nursing Rodney Jones, Industry Project Manager, Engineering, Computer and Applied Sciences Ryan Mullins, J. Daniel and Nancy Garrison Professor - Associate Professor, Powers College of Business/Marketing Department Saara DeWalt, Professor and Chair, Science/Biological Sciences Sarah Custer, Director of Emergency Management, Public Safety Shontavia Johnson, Associate Vice President for Entrepreneurship and Innovation/Faculty, Office of the Provost, College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences and Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice Tracy Arwood, Associate VP & Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, University Compliance & Ethics News and Events Request more information Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board President’s Forum for Inclusive Excellence President’s Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Related Links 2020 Road Map 2020Forward Administration University Org Chart Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram // $(document).foundation('orbit', { timer_speed: 10000, pause_on_hover: true, resume_on_mouseout: true, animation_speed: 500, }); //