Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Study abroad scholarships A Global University Menu Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Home A Global University Give with global impact Study abroad scholarships Give with global impact Home Give with global impact Study abroad scholarships Make a gift to the Global Opportunities Fund Study abroad is an essential part of the Husky Experience. Through global study, research or internships, students gain self-knowledge, cultural competency and the skills necessary for success in today’s global workplaces. But what’s more, they come home with cultural appreciation and understanding that would not be possible otherwise. You can help us offer the transformative experience of study abroad to all UW students – especially those who dream of going global, but are held back by financial limitations. Read more In the past, study abroad was seen as a “nice-to-have” experience for the few who could afford to pay for it. Financial barriers, family obligations and a lack of relevant course offerings limited participation by students from low-income backgrounds, underrepresented communities and STEM majors. UW Study Abroad has made great strides in addressing these issues and expanding access to global learning. Offering more short-term opportunities, partnering with faculty to diversify programming and allocating more resources for scholarships has already made an impact – but we still have work to do. Today, our study abroad community reflects the demographics of our student community. More than 2,200 UW students studied abroad last year. 46 percent were students of color and 15 percent were first-generation college students. However, financial constraints still limit many students’ participation. The UW is committed to ensuring every student has access to this critical aspect of the Husky Experience. Currently, only 30 percent of qualified applicants receive Global Opportunities scholarships. We need your help to go further and to make this opportunity permanently available to all eligible students. Together we can give UW students the experience necessary to change the world. Home Give with global impact Study abroad scholarships Scholarships make an impact Marii Beshir Business major Exploration Seminar to India Without a scholarship, I probably wouldn’t have been able to study abroad. I was passionate about exploring, but finances were a big concern. I went on a faculty-led program to learn about female leadership. The small business owners I met were so amazing! Study abroad inspired me to use my business degree to help people in my local community launch successful businesses. More student stories University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA