Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Housing & Dining Housing & Dining We believe it's important for our community to have access to extraordinary living, learning and working experiences beyond the classroom. By providing clean, attractive, safe facilities for campus residents and diverse, high-quality food options — along with partnerships and programs dedicated to improving quality of life for our students, faculty and staff — we work hard to create a positive, comfortable environment on the Forty Acres. Residence Halls Living on campus is about more than sharing a room. It's about building community. Our 14 campus residence halls support learning and growth outside the classroom with individual support, special programs and unique learning environments. Residence Halls Residence Hall Tours Dining Options From the buffets at J2 or Kinsolving Dining to the wide range of popular restaurants across campus, Longhorns never have to look far for a good place to eat. UT Dining Halls University Unions Food & Fun University Apartments Looking for the support of university housing, but want apartment-style living? The University Apartments are a great, convenient option for families, graduate students and undergraduates with at least 30 credit hours. Learn more Dine In Dollars and Bevo Bucks Longhorns living on campus can take advantage of Dine In Dollars and Bevo Bucks connected to their university identification cards. Bevo Bucks, accepted at dozens of businesses near campus, can also be used by students living off campus. Learn more Resources & Services University Housing and Dining Applying to Live On Campus Off-Campus Living Nutrition Services Sustainability Initiatives Latest Tweets UT Housing UTHousing Hey, incoming residents (especially you, #UT26): Mooov-In will be here before we know it. Check the link in the bio… https://t.co/68bJlSSorw 3 ds ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Housing UTHousing This one is dedicated to our resident assistant graduates who welcomed our Horns home and gave our residents an ama… https://t.co/ZP94e80Igi 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Housing UTHousing And that’s a wrap 🤘 Thanks for letting us join y’all on your Forty Acres journeys. Keep those horns up and enjoy yo… https://t.co/QeWJUx946M 1 week ago Reply2 Retweet Star UT Housing UTHousing It's move out szn for our residents! Have a safe trip everyone and we can't wait to see y'all in the fall when the… https://t.co/JR0wfXpCtL 2 weeks ago Reply2 Retweet StarView all tweets Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022